u2020-11-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear House, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2020-11-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, a few days ago, it was the second time since the change of regime that we have ordered an extraordinary legal order for the whole of the country. The Parliament gave its consent to the extension of this by 90 days. The legislation adopted obliges the government to report regularly to Parliament on the control of the epidemic during this period as well. This also brings the benefit that at least everyone can see that the Parliament is working. There is no doubt that the Hungarian constitutional order clearly states that the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court are the two constitutional institutions whose operation cannot be restricted even during a period of extraordinary legal order, and that we are trying to ensure that the lies that were widely successful in spring have not been discussed by the Parliament. That is why I think it is also right for Parliament to monitor the government's measures against the epidemic, while at the same time doing its job and taking part in legislation. As far as the international situation is concerned, today the number of people infected so far worldwide is more than 54 million, almost 55 million people. The number of deaths of the disease is also 1 323 898 people worldwide. If we look at European data, we can say that, unfortunately, the continent of Europe is also taking part in this to a greater or greater extent, and we also see in Hungary that the figures of the second wave are significantly more serious, significantly larger numbers than during the first wave. This is the case throughout the world, so it is in Hungary and so it is in Europe. If we look at the current situation, we can say that in Hungary there are 84 652 infected in the countryside and there are 25 604 infected in Budapest, so the number of people infected is more than 110,000. Yesterday, 93 people died; we also offer our condolences to the relatives. Overall, we can say that the number of people who have died is increasing all over the world, both in Europe and in Hungary. Although it is always worth taking great care with comparison with human lives, I think it is worth noting that if we look at the European mortality average, we can say that the average number of deaths in the European Union in the 27 countries is 481, 317. The number of infected is also significantly better than the European average. As far as health protection is concerned, the period of the first wave and the summer period were used by the government to prepare for the second wave, and therefore the means of health protection are available today. At national level, 7236 people are treated in the hospital, 582 of which need to be respirated, and 6654 need to be hospitalized without ventilating. There are 32 children among those in need of hospital care, but thank God, there are no children among those in need of ventilation. As far as the free ventilation bed capacity already designated for treating patients at the moment is concerned, it still means 1634 beds, which can be extended, but these are already available. So if you look at the daily data, which requires 582 people to breathe, then the current reserve of 1634 people seems to be enough for now, and the free-breathing hospital bed capacity is 13 049 beds. I would like to say once again that this number of beds can ultimately be extended to 32 thousand, so altogether 32-34 thousand beds are available within the hospital system and, if necessary, even new capacities can be opened. The operational staff shall have precise plans in this respect. Since November 10th, the number of PCR tests has been around 20,000 or above every day, there have been nearly 30,000 tests yesterday, and these rapid tests are not included. So we can say that if we take the rapid tests and the antigen tests in Hungary, we will be tested in more than 50,000 numbers. The situation in Europe is worrying in many countries. Hungary has been able to provide assistance, assistance, technical assistance to the Czechs, and we have also helped the Slovaks, Slovak health care, while the health system has not been affected. As far as health care is concerned in the defence, we can therefore say that Hungary is prepared to be able to provide care to everyone in the case of a significant number of patients. I would like to thank all those involved in the defence, especially doctors and nurses, who are doing superhuman work, their activities prove that all life really matters in Hungary, and we are doing everything for every life, trying to protect everyone's health. Thank you to doctors, nurses, but thank you to police officers, soldiers, public administration workers who allow the country to be prepared to defend itself, to defend itself, and to allow life to take place in Hungary, as far as it is possible within the normal framework of a pandemic. Compared to this, the situation of the economy is secondary, but of course also important, and I would like to mention this briefly. As far as economic data are concerned, while at the beginning of the year there was consensus that the government's 4-percent forecast for economic growth is realistic, we are now facing a recession of between minus 5 and minus 7 per cent depending on the economic impact of the new closure. [[13.10]] So this is about 10 percent different from what we planned. This means that the eight years of unbroken economic growth that are behind us have ended the virus. This virus, we can say for sure, would have brought the country's economy, the country, to its knees in its 2010 state. Today, we are also able to take care of ourselves in terms of the economy, and we are able to ensure that investment in the country can be launched without the European Union's economic recovery credit, and that growth similar to previous years can be restored next year. What is perhaps the most important thing in the economy is the data on employment, where we may be able to report the best news. The average unemployment in the European Union is 7.4 percent, the Hungarian figure is 4.7 percent, and in September there were only 24,000 people less than they worked in September 2019. If we look at the impact of the coronal virus epidemic on the economy, it will in any case prove the resilience of the Hungarian economy and justify the government's measures to protect or create more than 1 million jobs overall. 948 782 people have received labour market support so far. The number of jobseekers receiving cash benefits is 112 100. For IT training, which I think we started at the right time, a total of 62 000 people came forward, the number of public workers increased by about 8,000, approaching 92 thousand. Supported new jobs have been created, with a total of 46 thousand. All in all, I can say that the situation in the Hungarian labour market is stable, many of them are in a difficult situation, and they will be in a difficult situation even this month because of the closures. They're being targeted by the government. We see that you are all familiar with the tax incentives and contributions we have introduced. We want to maintain these in any way, and we hope that the employment situation will continue to be favourable and that, as economic growth can be restored next year, we will be able to improve these data further. One could say that nearly 4.5 million people in Hungary are working in the midst of an epidemic. The same figure was barely more than 3.6 million in 2010, when there was no epidemic and we were a year past the global economic crisis. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If I didn't have 15 minutes, but only 10 minutes, that's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-2	Minister, you have 15 minutes, you can only use the remaining 5 minutes as a return answer if you wish. Now, however, the group's speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Gergely Harvesto.
u2020-11-16-3	Dear House, Minister's statement is a confession. Admitting in the same way as what happened last week is the re-introduction of the extraordinary legal order, the re-closure of the country. The government couldn't prepare for the second wave of the plague, it didn't prepare the country, it wasn't prepared to defend itself. In the summer, when steps should have been taken to prevent the plague from bringing the country back to the ground, you were yachting, balatons and going to the game. The problem is, that's not what we should have done. You have failed this country, and the consequence of this is that panic control is now under way. [[A statement from the Fidesz: This is what they taught you!]] now, every day, measures are being taken which have very serious consequences. Let's take a look behind the numbers. Mr. Minister, he often boasts here about how great we are doing compared to other countries. I would like to say that I do not think this is comforting to anyone whose friend, relative, whose acquaintances and family members have been hospitalized for what is going on in Belgium or Italy. But on top of that, even the statistics they use are fake. International comparisons are false, because you always forget that we are talking about the second wave of the epidemic, and if you look at the data since September, for example, the number of people who have died in Hungary is 1.5 times as many as the European average, even though the European average includes those states, such as Belgium or the Czech Republic, where the epidemiological situation is very serious. The data you're providing is not reliable either. A great example of this is today, where the Chief of Staff had to come up with the fact that, yeah, we were wrong, it wasn't even as much testing as it was because the extraterrestrial event happened that there were more positive tests than the tests they had done at all, based on your data. But similar events have occurred before, when in some counties the number of people with positive tests infected throughout the epidemic has decreased, so in certain counties, it seems that it can be tested downwards. This is important, because it is important that the data you provide is not reliable, because it is not about how credible your success propaganda is, or not, because everyone knows that in a situation where an extraordinary situation needs to be introduced, when health care is extremely difficult, when the Prime Minister himself acknowledges that there is a 50 percent chance that we can keep the health system working, then everyone knows that it is a false and a lie. But it's bigger than that. When you're talking about data, it's also the result of people's trust being lost, and it's the least, little confidence, that you can believe when you say it. I'm really asking you to stop doing that. It's not worth the prognosis of success to give false data so that they'll give data misguided. It is not worth the prognosis of success that, in any case, confidence in the work of the epidemiological experts who are actually doing a job of sacrifice is shaken. Don't ruin it by refusing to speak frankly about the situation with regard to the disease control and the confidence needed to protect the disease. Therefore, we ask that all data be made available to the public in detail, including details of the deceased, in the sense of how many deaths have occurred in which hospital. You refuse to do so, and unfortunately, we also need to answer the question of why the number of deaths is increasing overall, but it only explains a fraction of this increase according to your statistics, the number of people who died in the coronal virus. There may be some reason for this to be explained, reasonable, but there must be an explanation for this. Finally, stop the success propaganda in the economy! I was here when you said that everyone who lost a job already had a job that was higher at the end of August, early September, that employment was already the same size as before the epidemic. Now it turns out that it wasn't true in September, and the Minister just admitted it. But we all know that October, November, December will be much worse. Take seriously the economic and social impacts, because if they do not, the health crisis and disaster will be followed by a social and economic disaster. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-11-16-4	Szabó Timea is next.
u2020-11-16-5	Mr. Secretary. There have never been as many new infected as there were yesterday here in Hungary, almost 6,500 new infected have been registered. Unfortunately, we cannot share your optimism in the international comparison, which has also drawn mortality, because according to the European Center for Disease Control, we are still showing the third worst mortality rate in the last two weeks in Europe. After the Czech Republic and Belgium, most people still die in Hungary compared to 100,000 people, now it is 13.1, while only 10.4 a week ago. So this figure has risen dramatically in a week. At the beginning of the summer, it was clear that a very rough autumn second wave was coming, and Viktor Orbán did nothing to prepare for this. Take a look, Minister, at the statistics provided by the State Public Health Center. [[He's showing me a graph.]] This is how death has increased since September, and you have brought me here, where the red line is, action. Why did you have to wait three months for death to rise so dramatically? They knew exactly what was coming. Compared to this, the Dialogue was insulted by the need for tightening up and then partly implemented these measures. On 12 September, Viktor Orbán said that we can measure the success of the defense in the number of deaths, and on the 16th he said that everyone can relax, because if he catches this virus, we will cure him. That means Viktor Orbán lied because they couldn't cure him, they couldn't cure the sick. Not everyone can be cured, but then why does the Prime Minister say something so irresponsible? On the other hand, Mr Orbán himself admitted that this whole disease management was a failure, because the mortality figures, to put it mildly, are not going well. There is also the question of a measure that you think is sufficient, but why does Miklós Kásler say that by mid-December there could be up to 28,000 people in hospitals if there are only 7200 now? If the measures are sufficient now, how will the number of patients in the hospital go up fourfold? Then perhaps the current measures are not enough! While they're beating their breasts about how many ventilators they bought, we know that there's just no doctor or nurse next to them. According to the indications of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the number of hospital infections is enormous. Now they're ordering GPs into hospitals to help care for patients. That's not crisis management, what you're doing! Viktor Orbán wants to sacrifice the lives of tens of thousands of people because he fears for his power. He refuses to take measures that actually slow down the virus. And what's worse is that you're putting hundreds of thousands of people in a vulnerable position. The Prime Minister committed the despicable act of making people believe that they had to choose between their health and their livelihood. He justified the lack of tightening up by stopping the economy. It's a false and incredibly malicious, evil, inhuman claim. A normal government protects people's health at the same time and protects people's livelihoods at the same time. But you weren't willing to do it. I don't know where the minister gets those employment numbers. In September 2020, the number of unemployed people increased by 37,000 compared to the previous month, and by 57,000 compared to the period a year ago. This is the official statistics of the KSH. You're also lying about statistics. At last, take care of the safety, health and financial security of the people. The basic income of the Dialogue crisis management is today the only economic solution that provides immediate assistance to hundreds of thousands of unemployed people and people who have lost their jobs or have lost their salaries. 73 percent of people support this according to all kinds of official surveys. However, it should not be spent on the 200 billion-dollar athletic stadium, it should not be spent on the 1000 billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and it should not be given to Lőrinc Mészáros for HUF 200 billion. More than 1,000 billion forints are being spent on these three things, while they don't give a fraction of this to the people who are in trouble now. You've been thinking about how to help. Well, they figured they'd be filing 36 laws on Tuesday during the night that had nothing to do with crisis management. Shame on you! [[By jogging the bell, the president indicates the end of the time frame and then turns off the speaker's microphone. Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2020-11-16-6	László Lóránt Keresztes is next.
u2020-11-16-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, At the beginning of his speech, he had a weird way of saying it to me. I hope that Minister is not only here, he spoke not only before the agenda to prove that Parliament is working, but also to answer the questions on the merits, because questions can be asked. I'm about to try to get information here. At the same time, before I begin, I would like to start today by thanking everyone who works in such difficult times to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. I think we can all see that the situation is extremely difficult and, unfortunately, it is getting worse. As the congresswoman quoted, as yesterday, so many new infections and diseases have not yet been seen. So you can see that the epidemic is accelerating to an astonishing degree. I think that the opposition politicians act responsibly, right, because neither one of us is a professional on this issue, but we interpret the signals of professionals. I have done this many times, but we have been attacked as if we do not appreciate the professionals or question their work. How bad the situation is, and how he is not indebted to what the Minister has said or what we can read from the government's statements, we can see it as a warning from a professor in Pécs in the days. He said that this professor in Pécs is talking about a few days' notice that we are in a very bad situation, primarily because we have not dealt with so many patients who are seriously ill. Our autumn tasks are eight to ten times the number of patients in the spring, the severity of their condition and the speed and wave of their arrival. The professor also said that it is a terrible task, that we are not enough to do it, that we need to put non-suppliers from the co-clinic, who are terrified of all the things they see, they experience in our class. These are shocking signals, and they show what everyone is saying, and I think it is right that the government is not prepared for the second wave, even though they knew exactly how the second wave was coming in the spring period, and they also knew that this would be much more difficult. I have also brought here the statements of the professionals you have appointed many times, who have already said at the beginning of October that they do not see the strict restrictive measures they have seen during the spring period, and they expect you to do so. So you have taken some measures in delay. At the same time, I think that the most important thing in the current situation is to draw attention to the measures that are still being taken, which would be essentially necessary, which we believe would also help defence and economic defence. On the other hand, it is our duty to draw attention to the serious mistakes that you are about to make again. There have been decisions here a few weeks ago on the increase in medical wages, which was supported by the Hungarian Parliament with complete consensus. I ask Minister where the economic decisions that underpin this are in relation to the budget, when they will come before Parliament, when these decisions that have already been taken will be supported by economic decisions. When will they take even similar economic measures as we see in some other countries in similar situations? Basically, we can see that this economic crisis is very deep, but you do not recognise the real numbers. When will measures be taken to support the most difficult families in Hungary? We find it totally unacceptable to explain that when we submit proposals to reduce the VAT on basic foods, or the one-off HUF 500 000 of social workers, there is no funds. Well, of course you don't. If we look at it, there are clearly hundreds of billions in the budget that could be regrouped in such a crisis to carry out such important tasks. Congresswoman has already mentioned the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is only HUF 200 billion this year and next year. Why don't you stop this incomprehensible, meaningless investment in such a critical time? And we would already have the budgetary resources to bring these basic, fundamental help from the point of view of the Hungarian people. And the other thing they're about to do is sometimes it's shocking what kind of measures they're waving in. I am thinking that, after this year's follow-up to the austerity measures affecting the municipalities, they have now come up with a very shocking plan. I would like the Minister to speak clearly on this point. With regard to the partial suspension or significant withdrawal of the trade tax, I would like you to speak clearly to the stakeholders, the municipalities, the cities and the districts. I've contacted 130 mayors in a letter and asked them to tell me what would happen if this proposal you put in place was implemented, and I can tell you that all the signals we have so far are about collapse. [[13.30]] So if you do this, the municipalities will not be able to farm it, and not the cities, not the local governments, will suffer such damage, but the people who live there, and I would add that even the pro-government mayors are extremely distressing about your proposals. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I ask that you consider the municipalities to be partners. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-8	György Szilágyi is next.
u2020-11-16-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, We can agree that there are criteria for a successful defense. These criteria, after a thorough preparation, are planned to be mutually reinforcing government measures with a focus on reality, the main aim of which is to protect human lives and help people to survive this serious period. Such a criterion would also be credible information and example on the part of the government. Now, you don't meet these criteria at all. Let's see in a row if time allows us to see what they've done. You're quite prepared, aren't you? What did they do between the first wave and the second wave? Nothing. You went on vacation to the Adriatic, you defended yourself against the second wave in big, loud words, and you did nothing in action. They were aware of the health conditions, because for ten years you have done nothing to improve health care, you have released professionals and doctors from health care abroad, you know that there is a lack of human resources, you have done nothing, and in a few months you could have done very great things to stop the second wave and prepare for it. Then, in terms of design, in the case of mutually built, realistic measures, we see that there is no design, you make ad hoc decisions, and you have now reached the point of communicating in a mess. They pushed the country into chaos, and in people, this chaos only increases fear and hopelessness. Consider, for example, your statement, Minister. You have said, quote for word, that those of us here in this room can safely infect each other, with up to the symptoms of an unpleasant flu. Those are your words. What did Viktor Orbán say on 16 September? Everyone can relax. If you catch this disease, we'll cure you. What, in contrast, is reality? Hundreds of people die in this country every day, hundreds of people you didn't cure. On average, if you're a Covid suspect, you're gonna have to wait three days for the test, three days for someone to take the test off at all, and then about five to seven days for you to get the test results. Is that what you think it's going to be? They made mask use mandatory. Minister, how many free masks have you given the population? They bought masks for tons of taxpayers' money, and they didn't give a single piece to the population. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] They've delayed the extensive testing, they've delayed it, and everyone said it should be tested widely, but you didn't deal with it, because you have the Philosopher's Stone, and that's why the epidemic is out of control, and that's not the other way around. We can safely declare people abandoned at the first wave, and now at the second wave. After all, the opposition keeps asking you not to defend jobs in words, but to give 80 percent of your wages to people who cannot work because of the epidemic. People lose their jobs, they live harder and harder. You leave people alone. And then comes the question of information. Certified information is very, very important in such an epidemic. For example, regarding credible information, let's just look at today's strange statistics. The number of patients is increasing, but the number of dead is decreasing. [[Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] If that were true, that would be very good, I'd be very, very happy for you. But can you believe the state statistics that are so controversial show almost paranormal data? The number of infected should also logically increase in the number of deceased. [[Interrogation from the ranks of pro-government representatives.]] But if something's happened and you've found the miracle drug, then let the public know. But how, for example, can I ask you, Minister, that there are more new infected than there have been tests by the operational tribe today? Exactly 6098 tests have been performed, and the operational tribe reports 6495 new infected, one of the data from the operational tribe. The other data was also issued by the operational tribe, and the total number of infected people increased by 7,000. So if there are 6,500 new infected people reported by the operational tribe, how did the total number of infected people increase by 7,000? There's always a lot of contradictions in your communication. I think we need an immediate explanation from the government. We've had enough propaganda. The Hungarian people also deserve credible information, and let us declare the situation! Viktor Orbán and your responsibility, what is in this country [[The president's ringing the bell.]] today, that's your responsibility!
u2020-11-16-10	Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2020-11-16-11	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, What you're doing is playing with numbers, but what's much, much more tragic is playing with people's lives. You're always talking about statistical numbers, but behind the statistics are people, I've told you several times, grandmothers, grandpas, fathers, mothers. Tell me, in the past, and most of all in the summer, what the hell were you guys doing on the balchie, the yachting, the adriading? ! Why didn't you prepare health care for what's going on? In September, what is happening in Hungary was described as the worst scenario. Why didn't they take action? Why didn't you prepare the people? They gave people a false sense of security, Minister. My fellow Member Szilágyi told me what you said here in Parliament, that this is just a mild flu, or what the Chief Officer said about the mask, that it is doing something wrong, and that it is helping to spread the virus, and now there is mandatory masking. And it also created a false sense of security that tens of thousands of people were allowed into stadiums just because the Prime Minister has this hobby. You throw numbers and consider Austria a laboratory, but the bad news is that Austria is really ahead of us in defense, but in the spread of the epidemic, it is much worse for us to look at the mortality numbers in the last two weeks or see how many people are hospitalized. And here's the livelihood crisis, which is another effect of this virus epidemic. You're small-handed, and you give people little. Many of them may not have lost their jobs, but they earn less, because due to the amendment of the Labour Code you have agreed to, they are working on the working hours of what is about to fall out of their lives, because their freedom is running out, they are not getting overtime, they are not getting extra shifts. Unemployment benefits are humiliatingly low both in time and in amount. Dear Minister, And what they have done in terms of economic recovery, we can really see what we have heard here, that they support their oligarchs with thousands of billions of forints, and that they are narrow to the Hungarian people, and they are constantly amazed at life situations that they should have solved long ago. On Friday, Müller Cecília, chief of staff, was surprised that many people went to work with antipyretics because they did not dare to admit that they were sick. Why can't they just admit it? Because they get 60 percent sick, 60 percent of their salary if they're accidentally found infected with Covid, and they have to go to quarantine, or they have to heal. How many times do we have to tell you in this Parliament that the person who has been proven to be infected with Covid will receive at least a hundred percent of the allowance for this transitional period? This could also reduce the spread of the epidemic. And, Minister, answer the question of how many lives will be saved by the fundamental law amendment, that you will bring public money theft into the Fundamental Law. How many lives are saved by the amendment of the electoral law, tell me! How many workers have more money because they are now amending these laws? Why is it that entrepreneurs have been bugging government regulations for hours because they've written everything all over it? All my fellow Members can tell me how many phones they have received, what they have to do now, what the rules are. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Interestingly, the text of the amendment of the basic law and the amendment of the law on electoral law was so precise! Why don't you focus on protecting human life? Why don't you focus on getting the Hungarian people through this period? These are the things that prove to you that power is still more important than saving people's lives. Shame on you! Thank you. [[13.40]]
u2020-11-16-12	István Simicskó is next.
u2020-11-16-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin by thanking Minister Gergely Gulyás for giving me information on the current situation on behalf of the government. It's always important, especially at a time like this. We all know and see that the epidemic is taking off all over Europe, and we also know that the Fidesz-KDNP government has had very serious experience in crisis management since 2010. In all cases, together with the people, in consultation with them, successfully solved the challenges and tasks, he acted in the interests of the people in all cases. Listening to the speakers before me from my fellow Members on the left, I recommend you to be a little more modest. So, listening to this lecture, I would like to ask you now how many crises and how you have solved it. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] How many crises did Szabó Timea really solve? So these are the loud ones [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Home!]] Categorical statements and comments thus abusive and critical of the government's work are not appropriate. Yes, the Hungarian government is characterized by the protection and protection of the lives of Hungarian people, and besides [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Yes, it also performs the extraordinary task of restoring the Hungarian economy. I don't know what country you live in or where you live. So I think that before 2010, when they had the opportunity to prove that all their crisis management had failed because it was either a restriction or people were suffering from it. So I think we need to see the period ahead calmly and calmly, although we obviously see the effects of the epidemic. The government has also successfully solved the first wave of protection against the coronal virus epidemic, as it has done its job in a timely and effective manner. In this situation, we see that yes, strict measures have been taken and implemented, because every life counts, and indeed, Hungarian health care is prepared for the second wave of the epidemic. The Minister said here that Hungary has the highest number of intensive care units in the European Union, we are the first in terms of the number of ventilators, we are third in terms of hospital beds in the European Union. What are these, if not clear facts about the preparation of the summer season? These are real! The fact that the epidemic has a second wave and causes serious damage and destruction everywhere is perfectly natural, unfortunately, the order of epidemics is that. However, Hungary will stand its ground in the European context and will do everything in its power to protect Hungarian families and the health of Hungarian people. We need to slow down the spread of the epidemic, obviously. The decisions, the tightening up, the curfew all point to this. I would like to thank our fellow citizens, who comply with the rules and strict rules, for their understanding that it is them, and that the government has made decisions for them, making decisions to protect them. Let me also thank healthcare workers, doctors and nurses, for we cannot be successful and productive without them. Of course, there is hope, waiting for the vaccine to arrive as soon as possible. According to our knowledge, the Hungarian government negotiates in four places: both in the European Union and with the Russians, Israel and China. The Hungarian government will take all possible options to ensure that the vaccine arrives as soon as possible, so that we can protect and protect the lives of Hungarian people in this way, prevent trouble, prevent a possible third wave from being given by the good Lord! So the Hungarian government will do everything possible. I understand your criticism, but I would just like to draw your attention to it, because we have seen it in the past, and I am sensing an increasing amount of criticism instead of helping us: we should join together here and help and not just criticize it. We see and know the criticism, of course, look at international examples. All international examples are important, and this is why Austria's case is important. Austria is leading high in the number of deaths and infected people, which is why we need to pay particular attention to Austria. There is nothing else to do, but to take strict measures, to thank people for their endurance, for their standing, for their heroic stand, and together we will overcome this epidemic. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-14	Máté Kocsis is the last one among the responders.
u2020-11-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, I'm asking you to stop the death campaign. A good man gets sick of you being able to carry on a death campaign, a tasteless death campaign in the middle of such an epidemic, so many diseases, so many infected and so many sad deaths. Stop it! Boring and distasteful! And it is especially fortunate that this beautiful ceiling, which is in this Chamber, has not fallen on our heads. You're talking about credible information. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] With Lajos Korózs at the head of their committee? ! [[Grumbles and interrogations from the pro-government benches, among them: Shame!]] He says that I have written to myself that there is nothing more important than credible information. But, Mr Szilágyi, didn't you say last week that Hungary only buys Russian and Chinese vaccines when it's not true? ! When we expect the vaccine from the European Union and the United States. Don't you fool the public, by any chance? Or isn't it up to you today on your Facebook page that the Hungarian government is giving the soccer players a million-dollar salary when that's not true? Is that authentic information, Mr. Szilágyi? Or is it true information from Szabó Timea when he quoted the paramedic of the Korózs Kamuvideo that most people in the world die in Hungary? Is that authentic information? ! None of your claims are true! And then, with humid eyes, they stand up in Parliament, they worry, they make a death campaign, and they say to our face with the utmost naturality that they are expecting credible information, while the last six months have been all about how you lied about the fight against the epidemic. And, Mr. Arato, you're calling in vain. You guys have been busy stealing electricity and cocaine all summer. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: That's right!]] You've been busy with this. You're a power-stealing couple! [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP.]] You're a power-stealing couple! Power-stealing, cocaine-happy left! Power-stealing, cocaine-happy left-wingers are stealing power with a power-stealing machine, Mr. Harvester! That's what they did during the epidemic. We've asked you to join forces. You wanted to hang your graduation. You lied about the number of patients. The photos of Romanian and Russian dorms and barracks represented Hungarian health care. Aren't you ashamed? ! And then the day comes when you stand up here and ask for credible information? ! There were rumors of protective equipment. First they said there weren't enough ventilators, then they attacked the steering wheel, that there were too many ventilators, why they bought so much. Sixty thousand infected were alarmed in the spring when there was no statistical data. You have one goal: to increase panic and uncertainty. They have no other purpose! I would also like to quote to you the sentence that came from Mr Arató: they are talking about the data, he said. Honourable Congressman, What does it matter when the chairman of the Health and Health Committee of the Hungarian Parliament publishes false mortality statistics? What's it to mean when you're putting on a campaign for the allegations of a non-existent paramedic who's lying? Well, then, be kind and measure with equal standards. What does that matter? Because if it's the way you said it, then your little brother, the socialists, is being called on to recall Lajos Korózs from the People's Welfare Committee. I would also like to say to you, the quote which is raised by Minister Gulyás, although twisted and altered, of course, they did not tell the truth about this either. But what about the quote by Javor Benedek about a relatively harmless virus? You're gonna have to measure by the same standards. Was that a proper sentence, Mr. Szilágyi? Or just throw a twisted sentence at the minister's head. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition.]] I would also like to draw your attention to the need for cooperation in the spring period. You did not vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act, you did not support the extension of the emergency, and now, when there is a real need for a united march of politics, you are primarily calling us the DKs Nazi worms and the members of the government, and you are waiting for the Prime Minister to die. Mr. Harvester, shouldn't you be holding back a little bit? ! [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] Is this the love campaign that Ferenc Gyurcsány launched on October 23rd? Is that the language of love you started in the middle of the plague? They're lying! They're lying! They're lying! Stop the death campaign! [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-16	Now the minister can answer the answers in five minutes. [[13.50]]
u2020-11-16-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not say that I will be able to respond to the broad speeches of five faction leaders in five minutes, but perhaps the most important issues are worth clarifying. So if we look at the statistics on the deceased, I would just like to indicate that if you look at who the individual countries count as dead and who they don't, then there are different statistics, but Hungary is the one that counts for everyone, regardless of the cause of death, if they were coronal virus infected. Many countries, including neighbouring countries, do not act this way. [[György Szilágyi: Is there a dictatorship there?]] So in Hungary, if we were to measure the number of dead with the same methodology as some neighbouring countries and a number of EU countries [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Japan!]] , the data would be even more favourable. In the spirit of fairness, at the beginning, we decided that regardless of the cause of death, that it would have happened anyway, if someone had a coronal virus infection, that would count against the statistics. But despite the fact that the Hungarian statistical methodology is the worst, if we look at countries that are richer, their health care is also richer, let's say that Sweden's number of deaths per million is not 317, as in Hungary, but 597; France's 664; Italy's 751; Spain's 861; Belgium's 1238. What if, in these countries, you were to perform opposition functions? They would not be so critical, because you feel closer to the Belgian, Spanish, Italian, French or Swedish governments than you feel the Hungarian government. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right! Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Shame! Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] This may well be the only reason they stand up here, trying to bring up a series of untruths to the government. [[György Szilágyi: Are there dictatorships in these countries?]] They're bringing out quotes that no one's ever said. The best forgery is what the Democratic Coalition, which is an expert in this regard, has done, where Vice-President Arató stands up and says that Viktor Orbán said that there is a 50 percent chance that health will not collapse. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Either you know you're not telling the truth, and in that case you lied deliberately, or you should have read the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister said that even if there is no intervention, there is no tightening up, even 50 percent that Hungarian health care can withstand the extraordinary pressure that the number of diseases represents. [[Intercom from the benches of opposition parties: That's not what he said...]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Either you know you're not telling the truth, and in that case you lied deliberately, or you should have read the Prime Minister's statement. The Prime Minister said that even if there is no intervention, there is no tightening up, even 50 percent that Hungarian health care can withstand the extraordinary pressure that the number of diseases represents. (Interjection from the benches of opposition parties: That is not what he said...) That is exactly what he said, it must be read back! Compared to this, you're falsifying it, and you're building a campaign. I could give you my own personal example, but maybe it's not worth responding to it for so long here. (Gergely Harvester intervenes.) As far as preparation is concerned, Hungary is the best in terms of bed number; if you look at it, there is enough of tests, masks and gloves, this was not the case before. Doctors and nurses also do superhuman work, but they are available in sufficient numbers. We have made the rules that allow fifth- and sixth-year medical students to be involved in the defence. And what we can say is that today the Hungarian health system, where the significantly richer countries also have a richer health problem, is performing excellently. In vain, you question this and in vain underestimate the work of those who, by the way, are working day and night to ensure that as few people as possible die and survive the infection with as little symptoms as possible. As far as economic criticism is concerned, there is no doubt that a series of data published by the Central Statistical Office is not necessarily simple, but if you are looking at the graph, Madam Head of the Szabó Timea faction, you will also be able to understand it. So the fact is that more people are still working on the latest data in September, which I have available, so I think that Madam Group leader may not be any fresher, more people are working in Hungary today compared to the work figures in March. Today, there are more people working in Hungary with KSH data, according to Eurostat calculations. Another issue is that even after there is seasonality in statistics, 24 thousand fewer people worked this September than last September. The two statements are true together. It is also true that unemployment in the European Union is 7.4 per cent and in Hungary 4.7 per cent. All this just proves that, in the face of serious difficulties in health protection, the country is doing well and that, with serious difficulties, we can protect and protect as many lives as possible. We are also on our feet in the field of the economy, and we can say that we have also managed to preserve most of the jobs. This does not require stopping investments, but more investment. And we are forced to live with the fact that Hungary has an opposition that does not support defence, but [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] tries to make it harder, and it's false [[The president's ringing again.]] communicates information about him. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-18	We will now continue to make a series of contributions before the agenda with the contributions predicted by the factions. First, I give the floor to the Head of the Szabó Timea Group. [[Several pro-government representatives are leaving the room. Noise.]]
u2020-11-16-19	Thank you. Although Minister Gergely Gulyás is leaving the room, I am glad that at least he thanked health workers, doctors and nurses for their hard work. We regretted that Viktor Orbán just the other day said that healthcare workers only operate machines. [[It's an uproar.]] Indeed, we in this opposition value health workers more. [[Noise and interruptions in the benches of the governing parties.]] You can deny that statement, you're there, you've managed to say that in your M1 interview. Gergely Gulyás's unemployment report is very interesting. Once again, because I have the KSH data before me: there is no seasonality in the fact that according to the KSH data in September a year earlier, the number of unemployed people and the number of people in employment increased by 57 thousand, the number of employees in enterprises with at least five employees, so in August this year there was 110,000 less than a year earlier. You can lie about employment statistics, you can talk about it, unfortunately, these are KSH's own songs. Compared to this, we see that you are still spending on Lőrinc Mészáros, still on István Tiborcz and your own friends, and not on people. In the spring first wave, you spent 200 billion forints on the unemployed and only on Lőrinc Mészáros during the same period 186 billion forints. One man received nearly as much state aid from Viktor Orbán as 200,000 of our countrymen have become unemployed. This isn't an economic crisis. You and Viktor Orbán keep referring to Austria. For the record, there is now a complete curfew in Austria, precisely because they see that the situation is not improving. What is more important, however, is what Austria has done in the economy. What we see is that while Viktor Orbán has always promised 50 percent of the people who lost their jobs, they make up for 90 percent of the wages lost in Austria. Here's to imitating Austria in this respect, not polishing and stuffing Squirrels! I find it amazing that, after ten years of governance, you are still dealing with what the opposition is proposing, or what it is voting for and what it is not voting for. You're on the government, you're on the move! We in the Dialogue are very happy that we can at least do the government the favor that we are proposing, although with considerable delay, but at least some of it has been transposed into their own proposals. This is the way we can help you, and otherwise you have the action. And I'm asking you, if you think the opposition is lying about statistics, lying about numbers, then why didn't there be any complaints about it? You have tightened up the Btk. pass on rumors in the spring, compared to this, only one procedure has not been launched against us. How is that possible? Because when you say that I lied about death statistics, you lied, because I said that in spring too, Hungary led unfortunately in mortality statistics in proportion to the tests carried out. Unfortunately, the opposition did not lie, as you claim. But you lied when you promised to deal only with the disease management after the authority bill. We know very well that the 36 laws you filed last Tuesday during the night have nothing to do with health care or the management of the economy. What does the epidemic have to do with the amendment of the Fundamental Law, the fact that you legitimize the thousands of billions of people who are wheeled out of public money through Lőrinc Mészáros and their strómans? [[14.00]] What does brewery have to do with disease management? What does farming, farming, have to do with dealing with the epidemic? You're incompetent, you're lying, you're inhuman. That's exactly why we're going to take you and the united opposition in 2022. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Take over.
u2020-11-16-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-11-16-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and About who appreciates health care workers, allow me to inform you that a decision has been made to double their wages. Compared to this, left-wing parties would have paid for health care. If it's up to you, every patient with a coronal virus would have to pay for care today, and we're not even talking about putting a lot of health workers on the streets anymore. As far as unemployment figures are concerned, if we take two steps back, the fact is that we have managed to reduce unemployment in Hungary from 12 per cent, i.e. from 12 per cent on the left to less than 4 per cent, and we will work again to reach the same low level. About whose proposals the government is following when it makes decisions: the health care professionals. Do you know what your position was about the virus, one of your main men? This is a relatively harmless epidemic. That's what they said. So much for your position. The main issue now is how we can avoid the enormous pressure on health care, which is why the government has decided on new protection measures: event and assembly stop, curfew from 8:00 a.m. and mandatory mask use in some places. What does your mayor do compared to that? It's either your Facebook page or your ATV studio. And if your question is who matters, I suggest you see what your mayor posted an hour ago. He posted that if there were elections now, how many would support each party. So you are interested in power and electoral considerations, while millions of Hungarians are busy defending themselves. By the way, we hear your demands and requests, but when we hear them, we cannot stop thinking that they have constantly prevented defence, and not only that they have not voted in favour of key defence measures. Personally, you, Congresswoman, were the first-line character and actress of a massive fake news campaign. You can't deny it. You've made false statements about death statistics, but you didn't stop here, you brought in the lies in the fake rescue campaign. From the same chair he said with the same temper that Lajos Korózs did. In that sense, you were before Lajos Korózs, Lajos Korózs. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] And we are not talking about an important aspect of this scandal: the false news has also spread to the international press, such as the prestigious Financial Times. This means that the left had this fake news on the road, probably by the same people who told us that Parliament was closed, while they were in session, such as yourself. You were a part of this. It's been a few months since then, and sometimes you ask yourself why we're dealing with this. That's because such a long haul in your party didn't have any consequences. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] The MSZP still had some kind of one-day study, so it's worth a mass, but you don't have anything, not a nick's voice. As long as you don't apologize for these lies, for these fake news campaigns, then don't expect openness on moral issues against your claims. In these weeks, millions of people are building a partnership, strengthening it, whereas you are building a great castle of lies, coming out of it regularly and attacking health workers who are fighting in the front line. It's really not okay. The Hungarians now expect not lies, not false news campaigns, not Kamuvideos, not minework from political actors, but cooperation and quick decisions. I wish you all the wisdom to see this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-22	The word now belongs to Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet from the LMP.
u2020-11-16-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last Tuesday, the Parliament adopted the extraordinary legal order, the opposition unanimously supported the government's 90-day mandate, but it was not even 24 hours after the vote, when you submitted nearly 40 legislative amendments, most of which are about the expansion of public goods and the retention of power. Unfortunately, in the midst of an accelerated coronal virus epidemic, when our health system is on the verge of its performance, the Hungarian government is busy presenting to Parliament laws that, as I said, are aimed at stretching public wealth or changing electoral rules, not at keeping the wage and salary people on their feet, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. They want to amend the Fundamental Law. Why would they want to redefine public money? There's only one reason we can think of, so that the Fidesz oligarchs can save our tax dollars in foundations for many, many years. Why do they want to make the MotoGP course and the hunting exhibition a priority in the public interest? There's only one reason, and it's to be super-secret, uncounted, and then pour billions into someone's pockets. We are talking about many tens of billions of forints, which would be in particular in the health sector and in the social sphere, or from which the situation of people affected by the epidemic could be improved. What is particularly outrageous to me is that the government also wants to use this period to privatise state-owned natural areas. For some time now, there have been rumors that money people have turned their eyes on protected natural areas, and it seems that now the government wants to meet these demands. I could still continue the line, because there was still a lot to hide in the laws filed. This is simply unacceptable. It's unacceptable at any time, but especially now, during the epidemic. Now, the government should use all its power to control the spread of the epidemic through thought-out measures and redirect resources, to value health and social workers and to help people in distress, because there are a lot of people in trouble. Most of the income of the poorest families is consumed by daily living expenses. In addition, a quarter of Hungarian families live in an overcrowded environment, which is particularly stressful both health and mental at such a time. For these reasons, the LMP calls on the government to abandon the legislation-making tsunami during this critical epidemic period, focus on disease management, the preservation of people's lives and ensuring a decent livelihood. Therefore, withdraw all draft laws which are not intended to deal with the epidemic situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Health and social workers struggle heroically in the front line while exposed to infection every minute, yet if they are forced to take sick money, only 60 percent of their wages are paid. They shall be entitled to full sickness benefit only if they are confirmed in a separate procedure that they have been infected during employment. I'm asking how they'd have the energy and time to get these papers. By the way, it's even more serious if they get quarantined, they don't even have that option. Therefore, medical and social workers who are quarantined or sick because of Covid must be fully paid during their absence. Social workers are also doing superhuman work, and they should finally be paid the salary supplement of 500 thousand forints previously promised. I will not go further, there is much to be done to deal with the epidemic, but instead, the government deals with electoral law, fundamental law changes, the MotoGP course, the small-taffirunging of the hunting exhibition and the privateization of nature conservation areas. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-16-24	Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, has the floor to answer. Here you go. [[János Schanda's microphone doesn't work.]] Mr. Secretary Tamás Schanda, please turn on your computer. [[It's happening.]]
u2020-11-16-25	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The truth is that we absolutely agree that the employees of Hungarian health care, doctors, nurses and everyone else who operates in hospitals are doing superhuman work, and for that, they should be thanked and thanked. [[14.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have now demanded that the Parliament complete its work. He demanded that the government complete the submission of the bill before the Parliament, and that we finish the work that we are doing here in Parliament. That was the essence of what you said. But, honourable Member, in the spring Parliament was still functioning, you said that the Parliament was not working. That rumor, that false news, was spread on the left, in the domestic and foreign media, that the Parliament did not work. Now that's what they're trying to do. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the other hand, we believe that Parliament should work, that the country should work, and that issues related to defence must be reported regularly here at the Parliament meeting. That is what Minister Gulyás did today in his speech before the agenda. In addition, Parliament is debating a number of issues relating to measures, legislative amendments and issues related to the control of the epidemic. Because, honourable Member, when you are attacking investments, for example, when you complain that we want to strengthen the Hungarian economy, we want to make more and more improvements, you are actually attacking the economic part of the fight against the epidemic. After all, we believe that when we are experiencing economic difficulties, we need not less but more development. Fewer improvements would have negative consequences not only for the country, but also for those working on the development, they would not get paid, they could not work, they would not be able to work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have seen what the austerity-based left-wing economic programme is like. We saw that on the left, when they encounter economic difficulties, they always try to impose restrictions and additional burdens and difficulties on Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. We have seen this, Madam honourable Member, and we have seen and experienced it, and that is why we can say a huge and big no to this. That is why we think that when the situation is not simple, we need not less, but more development, so I respectfully ask the representative not to attack, but to support the developments, the investments that can contribute to Hungary's success, and which can ensure a decent living for countless Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that, moreover, there is a debate here in Parliament on laws and issues that are important issues; issues that determine the future of Hungary in the long term, and these debates must be conducted, these laws must be adopted. In addition, we will, of course, defend the country with the mandate that we have received from Parliament, the quick intervention opportunity, the quick operation that we will be able to take advantage of this time in the fight against the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would therefore like to ask you not to engage in unworthy debates, but to discuss real substantive issues. This is also made possible by the numerous legislative proposals on the agenda of the Parliament. These are important issues, which are worth discussing, and then it is worth making decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-26	The next speaker is Gergely Arató on behalf of DK. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-27	Dear House, Minister Kásler gave an interview to the Hungarian Nation at the end of the week, in which he said, among other things, that this was one of the important elements of what he said, that in the spring we had the plague in hand, and now we are in agreement with him on behalf of the government, and that is true. The government doesn't control the epidemic, the government doesn't control the epidemic, it doesn't just follow the events, they're often late. Let me give you some examples of this in the field of education. According to Friday data, the operational tribe ordered an extraordinary break in 208 kindergartens and 37 primary schools, while 217 primary schools and 22 schools had digital instructional orders. In a week, the number of closed kindergartens increased by nearly 100, compared to Tuesday's data by 99 to be exact. What happened on Monday, we don't know that because they stopped communicating this type of data since Friday. Meanwhile, last week the secondary schools and higher education institutions closed, and in the same interview Minister said that if forced, we would also order education outside the classroom, said Minister. Meanwhile, we all know that closure in primary schools or kindergartens, for example, is not only a very big problem from an educational or educational point of view, but also because some students, especially disadvantaged students, have a huge problem with such closure, but also for families who need to stay at home, solve teleworking or stay away from work. I would add that, despite our previous bill, they will not receive a leave of absence or extra sick days, so they will find it extremely difficult to resolve. You know what the real problem is? The fact that this was not inevitable does not necessarily mean that education had to come to the brink of closure or the fate of closure. In August, September, a series of professionals warned that education was not prepared for the epidemic. Here in Parliament, too, we have warned that more should be tested, that there should be serious contact research, that there should be greater flexibility in the institutions as to how they deal with the epidemic, that there should be rules that can be observed to protect the institutions. At the same time, you have done nothing in this case. It is typical of your negligence and attitude that the very simple measure to measure the temperature at the entrance was also ordered on 1 October, while, I tell you, the school year began again on 1 September this year. You know, it's an extremely big problem. Let me give you another example. In the event that a positive case is found, contact research is very important and very important, as it allows the entire institution not to be closed down, only those who have actually been in contact with the positive infected person. Do you know how contact research works? I'll tell you. I myself saw a quarantine order issued in kindergarten in connection with a preschool teacher tested positive from 5 November to 14 November. Do you know when this resolution came up? On November 12, two days before the end of the quarantine, on November 13, the day before the end of the quarantine, the parents received the notification not to take their children to kindergarten. I'm sorry, but this isn't a contact investigation. It's just alibi. I also have to say that although the Prime Minister said that the construction of digital education infrastructure was almost completed in March, somehow it has not yet been possible to get there after eight months, because nothing has been done in this area. Today, too, schools and educators are left in charge of solving digital education to finally do something. I very much ask you to sober up, to see how serious the situation is from an epidemiological point of view in this country, and to see how serious the situation of education is. Take substantial measures. Don't worry about the opposition, don't worry about the electoral law and the Fundamental Law. Focus on what is important now is to protect students, teachers, and parents and grandparents through them, and protect technical workers in education. That's what's important right now. I am asking you to stop the prognosis of success, to stop the genderless attacks on the opposition, because it is not a death propaganda, this House, it is not the opposition, people are really dying. They have to be protected. That's what they do. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-28	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-11-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to make it clear that when the government makes a decision, it always makes it on the basis of a proposal from the epidemiological experts. We would like to avoid a complete lock, regardless of this intention, since the beginning of September, strict security measures must be taken in each educational institution. [[14.20]] If you listen a little bit and try to figure out what you want in general: you demand restrictive measures, then if the government decides otherwise, you will be asked to account for the government's reasons for taking restrictive measures; then they will add that you have proposed the whole thing, and sometimes they will add that they will win in 2022. That's pretty much what your position is. Two more things, two basic political behaviors. One is rumors and the other is hate speech. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Let's see it in a row. While the government is constantly taking protective measures, you will not stop with the fake news company, your party, the Gyurcsány Party, is threatening that hospitals will no longer receive patients. That's what they said the other day. They also say that statistics are not real. Why are you doing this, Congressman? We are trying to monitor the measures taken in other countries, and we do not see opposition parties there that would undermine government protection measures to this extent. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's not the kind of governments we have!]] They need to know that when this work is torpedoed, they ultimately attack doctors and nurses who are constantly referred to. [[Gergely Harvester: Not at all!]] The other observable form of behavior is hate speech. One of their main campaigners wanted the Prime Minister and the members of the government dead on several occasions; I quote him to drown in an ambulance. He asked to be graded on a scale of ten to see how happy the Prime Minister would be to die. He also said that if that were the case, he'd open champagne. Your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, had three weeks ago wondered whether they were now political in the language of love. [[Intercom from KDNP benches.]] What are you saying, is this it? Is that a love language? Because love isn't your language, it's not the quality time, it's not the favor, it's the unpredictable hate, which, if it comes to power, comes through rubber bullets. Anyone who wishes to die in this situation, any of their compatriots, I think a single gram of responsibility cannot be trusted. And by the way, it's not just an isolated phenomenon. Momentum, campaigning for the Romanians, campaigning against Hungarian football, then rubbing their success, talked about fidesification. If we had said that, we would have found ourselves on the agenda of the European Parliament by now. There were some politicians who were on the stage, some of them talking about terrifying formations, some of them your politicians, and some of them who simply put down millions of people. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I have observed that the more they refer to European style, the greater the amok run. The voters will really give their opinion on this; they have always done so. In the meantime, all we're asking is that if you don't help us fight this epidemic, at least put your hate speech machine on the ground floor. I think that shutting down would be an excessive expectation for you. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-30	Now it's Agnes Kunhalmi's turn. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-16-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Government, Minister for Justice Judit Varga attacks the European Parliament to deal with the rule of law mechanism rather than with protection during the epidemic. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right.]] In the meantime, we see that the Orbán government initiated the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law or changes to certain provisions of the electoral law on the day of the adoption of the delegated act. Well, please, this is a typical double standard case and a typical application case. During an epidemic, the government deals with public and ideological issues, assuming that public opinion does not really pay attention to new power and political machinations at a time of danger. But, please, there are more and more patients, more and more dead, and indeed, this is not a opposition campaign, but these are the facts, my honourable members of the Government. Will they slowly get to the point of attacking the opposition that the Hungarian Republican opposition was the one who unleashed the virus on the world? Well, don't be ridiculous. Where are you at? ! Is that normal? ! And then people trust you? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] I'm asking you, I'm asking you, how many people make a living by amending the Fundamental Law. Or how many lives have you saved, or how does it help to slow down the spread of the coronal virus epidemic by redeploying the electoral rules? Because they've spoken up several times so far, but we haven't received an answer! Or how many employees, how many unemployed, how many pensioners or how many Hungarian families will have a easier life because you want to legalise the theft of Hungarian tax dollars and public funds by hiding behind the basic law amendment? [[Intercoms from KDNP lines: Sit down!]] Mr. Dumpster, answer this. Don't talk nonsense, don't tell me how old the captain is, but I'm looking forward to an honorable answer to these questions. Furthermore, I am not surprised that the opposition is constantly being insulted or the opposition is being attacked. I'm not surprised either that you're projecting both parties to 22 or all of them. Dear Secretary of State; because the attachment of state assets to a fundamental law laid down in foundations shows us by two thirds that Viktor Orbán and his government and the leading Fidesz party are very much counting on the fact that in 22 Fidesz can be beaten. Yes, it can be beaten, because research shows that the united opposition beats the Fidesz. On the world's largest political stage, your moral and political leader, Trump, was beaten. This shows that the right-wing populist leaders in this new XXI. In the first century, because they said that they would have this century, it seems they could be beaten. So no wonder they keep attacking the opposition. But we Republicans know very well that this election is not from Washington. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I know that history has shown that it is easier to act against external authoritarian powers, the internal authoritarian leaders are the hardest to defeat, but indeed, in 22 we will. I'll go on: the defense is too late! And not us in the first place, but Ferenc Jakab, who is the head of the government's coronal virus research task force, warned you on 1 October in time. He warned us about it; he said: Hungary has drifted into a seriously endangered category, we will not be able to stop it, but if we run like this as fast trains, we will quickly drain the health care capacities. And yes, it has. The measures should have been taken when you, your man Ferenc James, the head of the government research group, drew attention to this, not when you were already two or three weeks late! I ask you, finally, in a viral situation like this, when Gulyás Gergely said so and was quoted by several people, but I quote, because that is the real problem, because here in this room we can safely infect each other, won't there really be a problem, Gergely Gulyás will resign? How many young people could have died or got the disease because the government had the greatest responsibility and watched what Gergely Gulyás said? Or Müller Cecília said, please, that masking can't stop the spread of the plague, creates a false illusion, can even be harmful to healthy people; every day Muller Cecília explains to people on TV that he now had to wear a mask! How many people could have died in this? The antigen tests. Christmas Gergely was raped on all levels to make it inappropriate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And now they're defending themselves with antigen tests? Please... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Don't distract me, don't spread false news, protect people's lives.
u2020-11-16-32	To answer, I give the floor to Paul Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you'll allow me, I won't be able to answer your unheard-of words, so what you said in the end, unfortunately, I couldn't understand. But as I understand it, he had objections to the emergency, to the functioning of Parliament. I'd like to state a legal fact for you. By giving the government the authority to act in an emergency, Parliament will complete its operational work on defence. So, basically, he's handing over privileges to the government so that the government can take immediate action in connection with the daily changing situation, cases, diseases, deaths, or purchases. Apart from your attitude, if you think that we should now buy respirators and present to Parliament a matter like this, you would start with the same thing as the vaccine, so that it would be Chinese, Russian, Israeli, American, British... So it's completely unviable that you're flooding us with here. I'm sorry to say this at the beginning. The other part is that you accuse Parliament of discussing forty laws here in the near future after Parliament works. [[14.30]] If we remember the spring period when Parliament was working, and you claimed that Parliament was banned, Parliament would not meet, then perhaps it would not... [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Well, look at the Western press, Mr. Congressman. It was just those of your camp who claimed that it was a mistake to release such a statement, for instance, because it turned out in seconds that you were lying. [[Bence of Turdai: Who claimed this?]] It's the momentary congressmen. Look into it, even the... criticism was on their side. They belong to the same camp, so don't deny it. Every day there is news, a list, a will, and a representative of all kinds of statistics here, that if this whole set is flattened, then what is sufficient for everything; or even the post of Gergely Christmas, if we think about it. You're still just dreaming about how you're gonna win elections. Not to win in the elections; if I understand correctly, in the case of Trump, the congresswoman also used to beat him. So you guys always want to beat me up, you're always practically trying to pull together against something. There's got to be something to work together for, and it's got to be a win-win, and it's not a defeat sentence. Because this country has suffered since 1944-45 that you've always been that way about these things. I'm sorry for turning so far. But let me also say a few words about the amendment of the Fundamental Law, since the Ministry of Justice is the author of this law. If we look again at recent events, whether in 94 or after 2002, then there are very legitimate expectations that there are values that need to be protected at the highest possible level, possibly even by a two-thirds consensus. If we think that before 2010, you wanted to sell the drinking water supplies under our feet, basically, you wanted to introduce a visitation fee, hospital daily allowance, which in these critical times, too, I think it would be a highly objectionable practice, and on the other hand, you need care for those who are virtually suffering from this epidemic. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] And if you look at the latter issues of the Hungarian Gazette, you can see constantly what taxes you do not have to pay, what benefits you can receive free of charge, how we can protect your workplace, what kind of subsidies entrepreneurs receive, then it turns out that you live in another world when you are here trying to make us aware that the government does not act and is late. The other issue is when we introduce a measure and how effective it is: I beg you, there is such a thing as proportionality! This country, in addition to saving lives, must work. The kids will have to graduate in the spring, just like it did in the spring, although you were against it, and you want life to stop. How would they go to college, how would they continue their studies? You are making criticisms without consequences, so you simply do not live in today's Hungarian reality. They twist the words of Minister Gulyás when he spoke so highly about the protection of the elderly that we should pay attention to them, because we are not as dangerous to each other as the disease threatens the elderly, and you make it seem like we in this Parliament could infect each other and encourage us to do so. Well, please, we'll get it for ourselves. Thank you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You just told me! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-34	Brenner Koloman on Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-35	Dear House, Colleagues! On 7 April 2018, most county newspapers Viktor Orbán Minister Mr President, with his photograph and the statement by the MSZMP KB, I am sorry, by the Fidesz Propagandaministery, making it extremely sad and outraged - I think the honest citizens of this country. I mean, let's face it, we're talking about another important symbolic date to build a fidesz one-party overpower. Moreover, since then, this process has progressed more and more in the media area, as let's face it, you deliberately hold a significant part of Hungarian citizens in extreme poverty and misinformation, who cannot break out of the Bermuda Triangle of the M1, Kossuth Radio and Facts Fake news. Let's face it. At the same time, sometimes the veil blows away from all kinds of machinations of media propagandaists. This is how it happened now, when Bende Balázs, who works at MTVA, is what to call him, a leading editor, a formal, fidesz propagandaist, or, according to your diction, Agent Soros, because, like the Prime Minister, Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, Balázs Bende was a Soros scholar, vigilante, comrades, everywhere! And in the middle of last year's EP campaign, according to the leaked recording, their responsible editor, Balázs Bende, called out of this universe, told everyone that Fidesz can be supported here, or it can be found elsewhere. Shame on you, because let's face it, already in the OSCE report of the 18th election, the role of public media was highlighted in the fact that the elections were half-perceived, but not fair because of the media situation. Moreover, in the OSCE report, it was stated that 90% of government parties were reported positively in public media, while 82 percent of opposition parties reported only negative news in public media by Fidesz propagandaists, who are not known as media workers, who carry out their activities at the expense of Hungarian taxpayers. The only thing on the cake is that with your fidesz revolvers, the Pesti Boys, who have now received it again, 200 million for three months, and with the rest of the revolvers, the pro-president Jobbik and his politicians have made almost 300 legal judgments because they lie about us in the morning, noon and evening, distinguished comrades of Fidesz. I would also like to refer to the election of the members of the Media Council last year, where I myself was the opposition vice president of the Committee that appointed the members of the Media Council. My fellow Members opposers are witnesses, that we have done everything we can to show at least Parliamentary proportions in the Media Council, which is the full master of all media products in our country. The five opposition groups also agreed, if we can only appoint two members, who these two members should be. In fact, I go further: in that one person we have already agreed among ourselves that if only one person, as a symbolic gesture, had decent civil democracy still been considered, you would have allowed me into the Media Council. They didn't do it. Shame on you. They have not done so, and they have continued the campaign of lies and hatred in the morning, noon and evening in this Bermuda Triangle, which poisons the spirit of a significant part of Hungarian citizens. Let's face it... by joining the opposition members of the Public Service Board, we call on the Fidesz government and the Media Council to investigate similar matters immediately. Immediately change the principles of public media editing, and ensure that all opposition politicians have the appearance of parliamentary proportions, not cut, edited, not before or after Fidesz propagandaists, who embarrass us by disguising us as experts, but let the opposition into our public media at last on live, non-cut television. Because, quote Denise Chengey, this media is ours, and we're gonna take good care of it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-36	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, At some point in your speech, you said you accused us of lying in the morning, noon, and evening. He didn't quote me literally, but do you know whose words these are? The words of your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Zoltán Balczó: 1956!]] So the Prime's rhetorical catches were also taken over. Do you know what Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party are famous for, the people with whom you are now running in an alliance? Today, at this stage of the fight against the epidemic, the most important thing for you was to declare the blood and defiance alliance with the left-wing parties that you would like to run for office in the next election. This was the political priority for you in today's defence period, too, to put faith alongside Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party and the entire left. And do you know what they're famous for, Your Honour? When it was leaked that they had lied to Hungarian voters in the morning, noon and evening, and that the Hungarian voters had taken their constitutional rights and exercised their peaceful right of assembly, to express their displeasure with the freedom of peaceful expression, they were shot among them. [[14.40]] This is the man and this is the political group with which you have concluded a defence and defiance alliance. And maybe subconsciously, but that was a Freudian comment on your part, and now I have succeeded in the rhetorical turns of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: 1956!]] You can take over. It's a sad low point, Congressman. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] He mentioned the issue of media pluralism. We see media pluralism and media diversity in Hungary. Public life is polarised, and I certainly agree with you, but everyone can express their differences of opinion, and the government guarantees one thing: because of differing opinions, no one can suffer any disadvantage. [[Peter James: That's exactly what the editor was talking about!]] This was not the case in Hungary before 2010. According to the media confidence index of the Eurobarometer, 63 percent of Hungarians believe there is high confidence in Hungarian media. This is exactly the same as the European average. By the way, apart from that, we do not wish to qualify for certain editorials, we do not wish to interfere with the work of certain editorials, unlike you and your party president, who, along with his new allies, was at the TV headquarters when they rang. Do you know why they rang? Because there have been opinions on the media that have not been favourable to you. So if someone in your opinion shows an opinion that's not favorable to you, then you're not afraid of anything, you're attacking that institution, you're going in there, you're rallying, you're making a full alliance with those left-wing politicians who were busy with fake news production, you're lying on the public media floor. Or Congresswoman Kunhalmi is the same as what we have just heard, demonstrating acting skills, running into different doors. And there was also your party president, and you were behind this action, and it is quite clear that, therefore, you have the opinion on the issue of media freedom that only those who agree with you can speak freely and everyone else shut up (sic!) His name. We don't want to live in a country like this. [[Interventions from opposition benches, among others: Long live the party! Delightfulness and applause in the ranks of the opposition.]] We do not support this media freedom approach. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] By the way, I would like to ask you, if I may, that you did not mention, in a sentence, the protection against the coronal virus epidemic, but in two sentences, let me respond to it, because there is also a key element of credible information. [[Peter James: You mean the Hollik?]] So I would like to ask you and your party president to stop, as far as possible, the good spring practice and early autumn practice of producing false news in connection with defense. It is memorable that Peter James here spoke of coronation, while we adopted the law that fortunately enabled us to defend ourselves so successfully in connection with the first wave. So maybe you're on the wrong side of history, and maybe you should change your politics. It would be easier for all Hungarians in this period if they did so. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-38	Now, István Simicskó, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Because you have to look at people in critical times, / And only in misfortune can you see what really is. / Because that's when the truth comes out of his heart... * Titus Lucretius Carus, a Roman poet and philosopher, began my speech today, who expressed these thoughts in his work De rerum natura on the Nature of Things. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is so, what such an epidemic brings out of him. This was already well heard in the debate we had just heard, but to put it mildly, there are left-wing politicians in your camp, such as Tamás Csillag, who would test the Russian vaccine on the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP. He also announced this particular Romentum, which is what I now call, since the recent Romanian elections the momentary colleagues, so the Romentum representative, who is one of the founders of the Romentum, Péter Szijjártó's announcement, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs told me that in December a Russian vaccine could arrive in Hungary, he commented on the following:. Van 133 brave people, whom I would like to recommend to volunteer for the Russian vaccine. If it works, if it doesn't work, we can only win! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One of Ferenc Gyurcsány's activists, Gergely Homonnay, succeeded in this. The fact is, he quotes the Oz tale and says, as the evil witch is expected to die, so he expects Orbán, the Prime Minister. In fact, it's a disgusting way to put it: it's gonna open champagne when it's dead. Is that your opinion too, honourable left? They were not separated from these statements [[Csaba Dömötör: That's right! Bence of Turda: Now we're separating.]] No one's apologizing. This has never happened before. So think about this, our honourable left-wing fellow Members. The fact is that even with the comment that the Italians would have set the Carmelite cafeteria on Orbán long ago, Gergely Homonnay even committed the crime of incitement, not to mention the incitement of hatred, and not to mention prejudice, since let's be honest, these two left-wing politicians, who have revealed themselves in this way and in this form, have found the common denominator, the common set that we can only call the hate-driven set. So to get to these depths, I have to say, all good people are separated from that. That's what we'd expect from you. When the Russian vaccine is doubted in such a crisis situation, in the midst of such an epidemic, when the Hungarian government looks at all possible options and negotiates with everyone to get the vaccine as soon as possible in order to protect the Hungarian people, they want to destroy the effectiveness of the defence precisely with this type of comment. I'd just like to tell these people, I've looked into how many Nobel Prizes in chemistry, physics and medicine have been won by Russian scientists: they have 26 Nobel Prize winners. We Hungarians have 13 Nobel Prize-winning scientists, 5 for the Czechs, 2 for the Greeks, 3 for the Romanians, 7 for the Spanish. Anyone who makes this type of comment is not aware of the reality and the facts. Therefore, no pejorative comments and ratings should be made, pre-qualified, especially in such cases. We are confident, yes, if these vaccines arrive, it will test their effectiveness as quickly as possible through the Hungarian government's health institutions. And the most important thing is that the Hungarian people can get the vaccines that have undergone the tests voluntarily, which will be the best and most suitable for protection. So, with respect, I would like to conclude that, indeed, in times of crisis, one must be taken care of; indeed, in the middle of an emergency and crisis, it is apparent that who is what people are, and the Hungarian people clearly and clearly see who they can count on. Yes, you can count on the Hungarian government and Hungarian health care now, and you can count on it in the future. Unfortunately, you, Your Honour, can't count on them. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-40	In response, I give the floor to Bence of Retvári. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Today, the Hungarian opposition has shown in its speeches before the agenda how it produces false news, how it tries to destroy trust in health care, education or any part of the state defence organisation. Perhaps one of the most obvious Gergely Arató, former Secretary of State for Education, DK, said that the government no longer discloses data on the digital working order of schools, the closure of kindergartens due to the epidemic, while today, at the press conference of the operational tribe this morning, Zoltán Maruzsa told me the specific data on the individual institutions. Gergely Arató will come in early in the afternoon and tell us here in Parliament that this information is being kept secret by the government. He's doing all this because the left was building his own little fake news campaign this weekend because he complained that we wouldn't publish which schools and which kindergartens weren't open this weekend. This weekend! [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: All of them! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And since the winds of this pseudo-news campaign have sailed in here, Congressman Arato, he has even thrown it here to the pro-government representatives, while all the parts of it are untrue to what he claims. Obviously, there is no teaching in schools or kindergartens this weekend, so we do not disclose any information about them; and today we have told you. So, once again, it's a false report that he came into Parliament with. [[14.50]] There is no intention of any improvement behind this, there is no assistance behind it, just and only to cause as much uncertainty as possible, while his own party, the Democratic Coalition, launched a referendum initiative with reference to the epidemic, which he called off a few weeks later with reference to the epidemic, or the Christmas Party presented a package of measures that the Christmas Party withdrew here in Parliament. They did everything and the opposite of everything. It is very unfair to hear the kind of false news campaign that is being said about the speed of the government's action. In the spring first wave, we were able to defend ourselves effectively because we were able to move quickly. The necessary legislative authority has not been voted by the opposition here in Parliament, so let us not forget that, and we intend to defend ourselves against the second wave in such a way as to act as quickly as possible. Therefore, when we introduced the restrictive measures that have taken effect in Hungary in the last few days, we introduced them sooner than Austria, Poland, Italy, Portugal, Romania, England, France, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, by looking at the proportion of infected people per million. And after that, opposition representatives say that these measures were put in place late, and that these are new and more false news. And here is our fellow Member, Szabó Timea, who may have referred to Athina Németh even sooner than Lajos Korózs, who, let us not forget, at the same Parliament meeting, when it was said that in Hungarian hospitals we are creating parts for the care of patients with coronal viruses, we are preparing beds to treat patients with coronal viruses there, he considered these to be unnecessary measures, and he said that these are dangerous measures. Here in Parliament, Szabó Timea said that it is a dangerous measure to prepare these beds to receive and cure patients with coronal viruses, because this will kill more people than in previous years, as he said that this would leave hospital benefits for the treatment of patients with coronal viruses that will eventually cause more deaths. Congresswoman! If you look around the world, you can see that in all other countries you are trying to treat patients with a coronary virus, but in Hungary, as opposed to other countries, where they do not provide patients with a more severe, non-coronary virus because hospitals are approaching the end of their capacities, or even from cancer patients, they are picking up who needs and receives the care, and who needs it, but does not get the medical procedure, but we are doing all the urgent care, and we are also doing all the cancer or organ transplant or other care in Hungary, as opposed to what they said. And he was able to say a few weeks, a few months ago that this is an unnecessary measure, and in fact, this can only be a problem for Hungary. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has struck a tone that is rare here in this House, but let us not forget that she was the one who said about Lajos Korózs' fake news video that the MSZP had done the right thing by making the video and that it would re-write the video, the video which was, by the way, the biggest false news during the epidemic, which was obviously built only on unrealism, which both the Financial Times and the Euronews received. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And to this day, he keeps the untruths on his website without correcting them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-42	I give the floor to János Halász, on behalf of Fidesz, as the last speaker before today's agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, From last week's health data and today's figures, it is clear that the epidemic situation is continuing to deteriorate worldwide, especially in Europe, both the number of diseases and, unfortunately, the number of people who have died are increasing. I'm sure the plague will be over when there's a vaccine. Fortunately, this moment is getting closer, the vaccination is now at a reasonable distance, but in the meantime, it is important to slow down the spread of the epidemic and to help families and businesses. It is necessary to survive this trying time in such a way that people's health and jobs remain. This is much different from the policy based on austerity that the left has had during the crisis. We remember that the left handled the crisis by removing the 13th month pension, reducing the time of the pension, raising the overall turnover tax by 5 percentage points, including the family allowance in taxation, raising the retirement age, reducing the sick pay, taking a month's wages from public sector workers, teachers and health workers, introducing real estate taxes, and, moreover, devoting the country to IMF loans. Dear House, During the governance of the left, one million people were unemployed, the overhead was repeatedly raised, the gas price tripled in eight years, the electricity doubled. They didn't spare families: they didn't blink without blinking their eyes! The family tax relief for childish people has been lifted. If it had been on the left, neither jobs nor families could have received support during the current coronal virus epidemic, because the left rejected all measures necessary for health and economic protection, and even every day, there was something to attack the defense. The most daunting point of this was the fake rescue production by Lajos Korozs, mentioned several times here today, but Korózs was also the one who tried to fool people last week with a falsified death statistics. Such a man cannot remain the head of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and Epidemiology. Lajos Korózs has become unworthy of all positions relating to disease control. Dear House, While the government is working to protect jobs, the left also criticized the job protection action plan without stopping, spread lies about the framework for unemployment subsidies, and alarmed people about the increase in repayments after the credit moratorium. On the other hand, due to the payment moratorium, the instalment cannot increase. The measure, which the left did not vote for, will help 1.6 million Hungarians and more than 60 thousand businesses. But let's see what we see in left-wing municipalities. There they are reaching for the Gyurcsány recipe: tax increases and cuts follow each other. This is harmful because it puts businesses at risk and eliminates jobs at the same time. But the left is only in times of crisis: they raise taxes, introduce restrictions, and smear people. On the other hand, we are doing everything we can to keep people from being burdened with the crisis. As part of this, we ensure that students can use free internet in digital education, government help for hotels, restaurants, leisure centres, which now lose their revenues for 30 days. After registered guests, 80 percent of the hotel traffic, about HUF 15 billion, is reimbursed by the state, which also pays half the wages of the restaurant workers. There is no need to pay social security contributions for these 30 days, VAT on food for delivery has decreased to 5 percent, and a working group is already working on preparing longer-term decisions so that companies can keep and even expand the workforce and develop it. There will also be an action plan containing tax cuts that affects everyone. The situation is not easy, but if we work together and everyone obeys the rules, then together we will succeed, and we will overcome the plague. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The Fidesz fraction continues to fully support the government's actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-44	State Secretary András Tállai will respond. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-16-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, eternal debate between the left and the governing parties is the essence, theory, and idea of crisis management. The left-wing crisis management, as you have confirmed by fact, can be called tightening. A tightening of the point is that it sees the solution by reducing people's income and living standards by reducing their income, their pensions, their salaries, making significant price increases, thus hoping that the budget situation will improve, while at the same time hoping for an improvement in the budget situation from tax increases. [[15.00]] This crisis management was tried by the left ten years ago, which resulted in what you said: one million unemployed debt-to-GDP ratios over 80 percent, a budget deficit of over 10 percent, a significant increase in premiums, a burden on the population, and let us not forget the introduction of foreign currency loans before the crisis and the pressure on the population. So, what's going on? A hopeless social and economic situation. By the way, with the left, Jobbik has now failed to learn from this case, and in the current crisis, it demands the same from the government. In essence, it does not require crisis management, but it demands the management of unemployment. It is not the idea of the left today either that people who lose their jobs need to provide jobs and income as quickly as possible, and therefore do not recognise the economic decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP government. What's the point? The point is that budget resources must be provided for defence, and the government will also provide the budgetary resources for health protection for the second wave. It is very important that jobs are preserved, that the economy works, that we are able to take appropriate economic protection measures and that we also have the resources to do so. Support should be given to jobs, companies and businesses that are able to undertake that their employees, if they are able to give work at reduced working hours, are tied to the company and retained, hoping that after the economic difficulties they can employ it whole-time, as before, and thus provide stable income and work for the individual worker. But it is also very important that we do not give up investment at this difficult time, let us not give up on the possibility of creating new jobs. Therefore, it is very important that we give competitiveness-enhancing support, which was implemented by the KKM, giving 904 companies about HUF 424 billion worth of investment resources, thus protecting and creating 155 thousand jobs. The decision of the government on 4 November is to provide another HUF 155 billion to support the creation of investments, for Hungarian corporate investments abroad to increase exports. The theory is completely different, the thinking is different. Jobs must be protected, new jobs must be created, small businesses must be saved, with reduced contributions, tax reductions and tax reductions. But this is also true of families and businesses, with the introduction of a credit moratorium. The credit moratorium is unique in Europe and throughout the world, as it was extended in Hungary. That's the difference between the left crisis management that destroyed the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the crisis management of the current government, which is a way out for Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-46	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-11-16-47	Dear Parliament, Zoltán Fenyvesi, Fidesz; Zsófia Koncz, Fidesz; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; László Varju, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Földi, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik applied for the speech after the agenda on Thursday. On Friday, Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2020-11-16-48	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The MSZP Group has proposed that the T/13679 on the amendment of individual electoral laws, as indicated as item 8 of the Wednesday, 18 November meeting, should be amended. The general discussion of bill No 1 should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House did not support the proposal. Also the MSZP Group... [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman Belling. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We would like a machine vote, please.]] We'll repeat the previous vote by machine. Please, for the duration of a presence check... Hold on, hold on a second. Hold on a second. Please set the system for machine voting. Thank you. [[It's happening.]] So, please, for a presence check, everyone press one of the buttons on your desk. [[Attendance check. Present: 151; away: 48.]] No one seems to have reported that your computer might not work. So now we are going to repeat the previous vote on the proposed amendment to the agenda of the MSZP. You therefore agree with the proposal that the T/13679 on the amendment of individual electoral laws, as indicated as item 8 of the Wednesday, 18 November meeting, should be adopted. Should there be a general debate on bill No 1? Please vote now. [[Vote. Gergely Gulyás and Antal Rogán:]] Minister Gulyás... [[On the mark of Gergely Gulyás:]] Sorry, Minister Rogán... [[Gergely Gulyás intervenes.]] If you'd take off your mask and maybe tell me what you want, I'd understand. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Gergely Gulyás, take off the mask: none of ours works! Antal Rogán: None of our machines are working!]] Oh, thank God. [[Defiance.]] So Minister Gulyás and Minister Rogán's plane didn't work just now, which, I hope, is only because they arrived late in the Chamber. [[Depreciation, interruptions.]] Nevertheless, the result is clear: the amendment was not accepted by the House by 47 votes in favour, 109 against and 1 abstention. The MSZP Group also proposed that the T/13647 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, as indicated as item 9 of the Wednesday, 18 November meeting, should be amended. The general discussion of the proposal No 1 should not take place. I'd like to ask that if the two ministers' machines are okay, but they haven't been turned on, please make up for it before we start voting. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not accept this amendment either by 42 votes in favour, 113 against and one abstention. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of this House has adopted the Parliament's agenda. Dear House, There will be a process of discussing and deciding on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that Szabó Timea, the parliamentary representative of the Dialogue, received a motion for the waiver of immunity on 6 November 2020 16.Bpk.16482/2002.2. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted the case to H/13820. This is why, according to the proposal on the agenda, the suspension of immunity will be decided on today's sitting. The Parliament decides on this without discussion, but first I give the floor to János Harghitai, chairman of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As has been said here, the Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. In the transcript of the District Court, he motioned for the suspension of the immunity of Congresswoman Szabó Timea for defamation. In the facts, we could conclude that on 16 October the former mayor of Óbuda made his private initiative to the court, and that the Member's reason was that on 7 October he posted an entry on his own Facebook site which the former mayor considered to be capable of depreciating his own honor. The case goes back in substance to the case that we discussed at the previous meeting, and then Congresswoman Vadai was the subject of the case. A III. We're talking about the events of a kindergarten kindergarten teacher in the district who's involved in pedophiles. The mayor's position is that they acted as they should at that time in the investigation of the case, and that is why the Member's position is limited, and that is why she strongly expressed the identity of the former mayor and the actions there. The immunity committee has to investigate one thing: public or private charges. Although public figures are fighting each other here, but this is still a private indictment motion, the immunity belongs to the Parliament, and therefore the Parliament's immunity committee proposes that we continue the practice that we have followed: in the case of a private indictment, we should not suspend the immunity of that Member, so we should not suspend the immunity of Szabó Timea. This decision, our proposal, has been made by a majority. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-50	I will ask Mrs Szabó Timea if she wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Szabó Timea: No.]] He doesn't want to. Dear House, I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. The suspension shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Parliamentary Congressman Szabó Timea. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend the immunity of the Member by 3 votes in favour, 145 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, I would like to inform you that a motion for the waiver of the immunity of Members of Parliament of Fideszes György Simonka was received on 10 November 2020 21.Bpk.142/2020/3. I'm also referring to a private charge of defamation from the District Court of Békéscsaba. I have issued this to the immunity committee, which is a committee of H/13821. Mr Harghitai presented his proposal for a resolution, so we will also decide on this once we have heard the President, János Harghitai. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-16-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The District Court of Békéscsaba has turned to the Parliament in its transcript and has proposed that György Simonka's immunity be suspended on the ground of defamation. During the examination of the facts, the Committee could conclude that on 20 January 2020 the Member made statements against the indicting lawyer in a media in Orosháza and then on his own Facebook website, which was challenged by the indicting lawyer, it considered that his 21-year-old lawyering and public opinion would be adversely affected by the Member's comment on him. The subject of the investigation was also the question of public or private charges. After we have established that this is a private initiative that the lawyer has made against the congressman, the committee here, following his previous practice, is proposing to the Parliament that the immunity of the Member should not be suspended. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-52	Since the Member is absent, he does not wish to take the opportunity to speak. I would therefore remind this House that the committee has proposed that the Member's immunity not be suspended. Similarly to our previous decision, a two-thirds vote will follow. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congressman György Simonka. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend the Member's immunity by 18 votes in favour, 119 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. My question is which one of you is going to ask. [[This is Peter James.]] Here you go. I give the floor to Congressman James.
u2020-11-16-53	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, you're crazy! You're crazy.
u2020-11-16-54	Please, Congressman, please. Congressman, I'm warning you on time. In order to avoid any future conflict, try to put it in a way in life that is appropriate in this House against a person or any Member elected by Hungarian voters. So why don't you get your best manners out and start again, see if you can do it the second time. If you don't, I'll take it away from you as if you weren't here. Ready? [[Peter James: Of course!]] Okay. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Try it again!]]
u2020-11-16-55	I promise I'm not gonna fuck with anybody. Prime Minister, thousands of Hungarians are dying here, hundreds of thousands of people are without a living, and in the hours of the crisis, instead of talking about the solution, you're starting to say things in public last week that the Hungarians have money, but a network wants to take this money, and the baby knows that Soros is the spider that weaves this net. Prime Minister, do you even understand what's going on in this country? Do you know that health care is collapsing? Do you know that the Hungarians' livelihoods are ending? Do you know that you are the Prime Minister who should resolve this crisis? ! That's what you're smart about. Change the electoral law in the middle of the crisis, that's what you're smart about! [[15.20]] Manage a crisis, save a life and a job, that's not going to work. What did he say in September? He said that whoever catches the disease will be cured. Prime Minister, the number of dead is over 3,000! It's a tragedy! [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] You also said that they would create as many jobs as the virus would destroy. In fact, the economic security fund had the billions to do with it, but you were throwing that money away. He gave a good part of Lőrinc Mészáros to build a railroad to Belgrade, but he got nothing for stadium construction, space exploration, government communication for job security. Currently, more than 300,000 of our countrymen are looking for jobs, 150,000 of them are not receiving any state aid, because you believe that there is no reason to extend the period of unemployment benefit, as nothing is ever justified in this country, according to you, which would make the Hungarians' lives a little better. Big talk and nothing, that's your crisis management. And Soros being the new Spider-Man. Congratulations. Wow. How many lives can be saved, how many jobs? Just tell me how many. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-56	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who wishes to answer the immediate question. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-11-16-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government prepared the country for defence during the summer months [[Noise, clear from opposition lines.]] Accordingly, 78 of the more than 100 hospitals have so far been involved in the care of covid patients. We have 14 785 doctors, 28 847 paramedics and nurses. The intensive beds are currently located in 582 patients. In addition, an intensive bed is available in 1634, so it's three times what we're using now. There are 7236 covid patients in hospitals, and there are still 1946 suspects of infection, but there is no evidence of covid. We've mobilized medical students; at this moment, 200 students are working from the University of Technology, they're pilots, drivers, and we've mobilized 400 students for testing. We have 2157 of our fifth and sixth-grade med students, we mobilize them as needed, and we have 5549 students from third- and quarterly med students who can be mobilized if necessary. As far as the economy is concerned, we have promised that as many jobs as the virus destroys, we will create so much. When we started governance in 2010, there were 3 million 600 thousand jobs in Hungary, and now there are 4 million 500 thousand. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-58	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2020-11-16-59	Prime Minister, yachting and propaganda cannot be prepared for any epidemic. Do you realize we're talking about people's lives here, and we're talking about bread on the Hungarians' table, so stop being miserable. Yes, we must test the population so that the virus doesn't dictate the pace, but we do. Free and mass testing and substantial job protection are needed. Indeed, the government must take over the wages of the workers in distress, not 50 percent, but at least 80 percent. The duration and amount of the unemployment benefit shall be increased. Employees working below average should be able to recover personal income tax in order to provide these people with money. And if someone over the age of 60 loses his job, they should not send him to community service, but let him retire. Prime Minister, for God's sake, take the job and get to work. This isn't the Soros plan or the, let's stop Brussels, it's not a fake, it's not a drill, it's a reality! Try to treat it like one. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-60	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-61	I would like to inform this House that all infected 1 million people in Hungary have 14 429 patients and the European average is 20 777. All the deceased are 317 in Hungary per million and 481 in Europe. The government has done everything they can to protect us, and we will continue to do everything we can. I've listened to you, and I can tell you that for us who are sitting here on this side, all life matters. You don't seem to have anything expensive. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-62	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-63	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Hungarian women learned from the press that Hungary was the initiative of an anti-abortion coalition called the Geneva Consensus Declaration. The initiative is your government's ideological ally, the Trump administration, to which the American electorate said no two weeks ago. The signatories also include countries that suppress women's rights, such as Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Iraq, Sudan or Libya. From Europe, this alliance is supported outside Poland only by the uncomprehensible Lukashenka regime. The latter is sad because it reminds me of the saying, "Bird of his pen, man of his friend." Mr. Prime Minister, In your party and KDNP from time to time, it arises that abortion must be banned, just as it has now been attempted in Poland. You used to say that you would comment on this by saying that Fidesz has no interest in pissing off Hungarian women. Please assure me that this is not the case now, and the Fidesz government is not preparing to tighten abortion rights. Of course, we also consider it important that there are as few abortions as possible. Moreover, there have been significant positive changes in this area over the last 25 years. But it is also important for women to be able to control what happens to them, their bodies, their lives. This is a fundamental right that cannot be limited. If there is still work to be done in this area, it is prevention. So please inform me of what your government is doing to further reduce the number of abortions, what information campaigns you are preparing for teenage boys and teenage girls, how they make birth control available and especially affordable to all Hungarian people. And once again, please state clearly that you are not preparing to tighten the abortion law. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-16-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-65	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The Hungarian government is not preparing to tighten the abortion law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-66	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give you the floor in return.
u2020-11-16-67	Thank you very much for this good news, Prime Minister. Then, however, I look forward to what concrete ideas about prevention are. At the same time, I wish everyone very, very good health, because we are in a situation where we need to take care of each other more than ever. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-68	Thank you. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-69	Thank you. The Hungarian government is not preparing to amend the abortion law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-70	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why are you lying to the country? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-71	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You have spoken to the Hungarians in two ways in recent months. On the one hand, I quote you - "Everyone can rest assured that if someone catches this disease, we will cure it, and the hospital capacity is almost unlimited." That's very kind of me to say, but I'm sorry, that's not something a sane person would say. There's no unlimited hospital capacity, and they couldn't cure everyone. On the other hand, let me take note of what you promised this country before and at the beginning of the second wave. He also said that we are waiting for the second wave of the virus, armed to the teeth. One week before the closure, he stated that the current restrictions were sufficient and that there would be no need for further measures. Prime Minister, you lied to the stars about the sky, while it was clear that you and your government have done nothing in recent months, have not prepared the country, health care or schools, and have not entered into free and mass testing. Then, when their helplessness threatened everyone and everything, and they finally realized that the virus had been released because of you, they pressed the panic button and shut down the country. Hundreds of people are dying today, intensive care is on the brink, and the shutdown has put the economy on a slope that threatens hundreds of thousands of people's livelihoods these days. Prime Minister, we already knew that, but now your constituents clearly see that you can steal, campaign, lie, fight against imaginary enemies, but you can govern, especially when there is a crisis, you cannot govern. [[Intercoms, noise on the pro-government side.]] [[15.30]] I would like to ask how much longer your inadequate panic management will endanger the lives of Hungarians. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] What must happen if you look the Hungarians in the eye and tell them that you lied all along [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the last six months [[Interjections and acquaintance from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And they didn't do anything? [[Interjections and acquaintance from the ruling parties. Without sound:]] Prime Minister, how long are you gonna lie to this country about defense? [[Interjections and murmurs from the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause for the opposition.]]
u2020-11-16-72	Congresswoman, you're speaking in Parliament. [[Intercoms.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-73	There's something self-confident about the fact that a representative of a party whose president said as Prime Minister that they lied in the morning, at night and at night. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interpretings at the same place: That's right!]] I must say that in the matter of lies, you actually represent a standard, a standard that can be set bravely against any government, because whatever it is it tries to do, it can hardly succeed. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But if you think I'm just talking about the past, you're wrong, because the champions of the lie are still saying this, not only backwards, based on the words of the former Prime Minister; you will certainly remember that it is you who produce fake nurses, make fake videos, fake videos, and make them lie to people's eyes. So if anyone in Hungary wants to deceive people today, it's the left. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] And if it's about who's doing what, I can tell you that the country is prepared, the country is defending itself, the preparation was not caused by the government's only ability to act and act, but by the preparation of the hospital directors, the preparation of the leading doctors and senior nurses. When you question the country's preparedness, you are actually questioning the quality of their work. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!) I don't think it's a good thing when it comes to defense, but it's not usually the right thing to do. And as for the dimension of preparation, as far as the government is concerned, it is certainly possible to compare common sense with what conditions there were in the spring, whether it was a respirator, an intensive bed, gloves, a protective mask or protective equipment, or a vaccine and medicine. The difference between spring and present preparedness is not obvious, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-74	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-75	Dear House, Well, I almost knew this was gonna happen. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But honestly, man, who cares what it was 14 years ago or 14 days ago? ! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Everyone cares about what happens now and what happens tomorrow. I know you live in an alternate reality where everyone is at fault, the left, the opposition, Gyurcsány, Soros, the background powers, the lizard people, everyone but you and your full government. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. ) Prime Minister, you lied, you lied to the Hungarians quite simply (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties). ), and now he does not have the courage to stand up here in Parliament and tell the Hungarians that they have done nothing for six months (intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties). ), not prepared for health care, not prepared for schools, not prepared for the country, and not doing anything, simply baking their own steak. Shame on you, Prime Minister. Shame on you.
u2020-11-16-76	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-77	I can see you're mad at us. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But believe me, if you hadn't done everything you've done, I wouldn't have anything to do with it right now. They'd rather be mad at themselves. For example, you are here personally. You, who are talking about being prepared for health care, forget that you have not just started your parliamentary career. Well, he's been sitting here for years, and when they were on the wheel, they didn't just take a month's wages from doctors and nurses, you personally voted for it. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] We are not the ones to be angry at because you represent the political community in Hungarian politics when it was governed. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] It destroyed Hungarian health care. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting.]] It's not our fault that when you were on the government, 6,000 doctors were dismissed. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying!]] It is not our fault that when you were in the government and failed, you were in Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting.]] Unemployment was over 12 percent. This is your fault, and you personally, who then voted in favour of these measures. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Intercoms.]]
u2020-11-16-78	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting.]] Congresswoman, please be kind enough to end this, this is not a dialogue. The Prime Minister has listened to you. Please stop. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I won't finish! Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai keeps interrupting.]] Congresswoman, I warn you... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Warn me, I don't care! Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including, "Doctor."]] Honourable Parliament! Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai is leaving the Chamber. Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: Where are you going?! Don't go. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Agnes Vadai is leaving the meeting room. Intercoms from the ruling parties: Agi, stay still! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] My fellow Members, I ask you not to go over this style. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Pálinka or food on the table?" It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2020-11-16-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, The question is very simple: Prime Minister, you believe that it is in line with the principle of social justice, the government's decision that the vast majority of basic foods have been subject to 27 per cent VAT, while accommodation services are charged 5% VAT; it is in line with the principle of social justice that the vast majority of basic foods are taxed by 27 per cent, while restaurant services consumed locally are taxed by 5 per cent. And what do you think people need more than just basic food or brandy? [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches.]] Because, let's face it, from your tax policy, it can be concluded that while most basic foods are taxed on 27 percent VAT, they went all the way to the wall for the exemption of home-cooked brandy. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-16-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in response. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-11-16-81	I'm a little confused, fellow Member. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 'Cause as far as I can remember, the brandy belongs to the 27 percent VAT category. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] because I remember that the pálinka belongs to the 27 percent VAT category (intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: That's right!) Although, in my view, it is a basic food (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ), but despite this... [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But despite that, it's in the 27 percent lane. However, the question you've asked is an important and legitimate question, and I can tell you that the government has reduced the VAT on live pigs from 27 percent to 5 percent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many times do you lose a living pig?]] He reduced his meat and eggs to 5 percent of the fish and also reduced the VAT on milk to 5 percent. The first question is that it could not be more than that to reduce its VAT. I think it may be, but this must be in connection with the country's economic performance, because the reduction of VAT is always a matter of serious consideration for budgetary management. The fact is, if we do not want to tax income very much and you know that this government follows the philosophy of a work-based economy, so if we want to have a low tax on income, then consumption must be higher, this relationship exists. There's no such thing as low VAT and low income tax. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] I ask you to take this into account when you make your point. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) And when you compare the VAT on basic foods, where it is higher than 5 percent, with 5 percent of restaurant services, I would like to ask you not to see the luxury of eating in this restaurant, so not from this point of view of social justice, but from the point of view that we are trying to save jobs. [[15.40]] So now we've brought VAT down to this low level in restaurant services so that restaurant owners don't have to let go of the people who work there during these 30 days. If you approach it from here, I think you will find the right answer from the point of view of social justice. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-82	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-83	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! The fact is, I think that brandy is not a basic food, and that if we go on, the biggest problem is that the VAT on a selected basic food has been reduced in an idea-like way, perhaps driven by lobbyism, instead of reducing the sales tax on everyday food that comes on the table. You're wrong when you refer to the epidemic, because the decisions you mentioned, and as far as the VAT on accommodation and illegal restaurant services is concerned, these were made years ago! I'd like to point out that this has nothing to do with the epidemic. In addition, if we look at international examples, Sweden, where there is also a high turnover tax, basic foods and foodstuffs are taxed with VAT rates below 10 per cent, in Germany there is a lower turnover tax burden of 7 per cent, but reduced to 5 per cent by the end of the year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what you should understand, Prime Minister. [[The president's ringing again.]] , to the people for food...
u2020-11-16-84	Congressman!
u2020-11-16-85	...they need basic food, sorry, not brandy! [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-16-86	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-87	If the only difference between us was that you didn't think schnapps were important and we thought it was important, we'd still be doing pretty well, even in a political family. But it doesn't surprise me what you're saying, because you're a midtown congressman, and we come from somewhere else, and therefore the perception of different things is different. We have to take this into account, let's just take it as a sociological gift. As for the German and Swedish example, I think you're only telling one half of the truth, that's not right, because in Sweden and Germany, income tax is at 30, 40 and 50 percent. Don't make this wish for the Hungarians! Let us be glad that we now have a tax system, which, of course, if it had half the burden on it, would be even better, but we have a tax system that clearly and clearly supports the ability of people to work and entrepreneurs to give people jobs. I think this is the right direction, this is the right structure. Please support us in keeping this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-88	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Will you continue, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! The Fidesz government's epidemic and crisis management is extremely weak, cowardly, hasty and chaotic. As a consequence, we are in the worst three in the EU in terms of mortality, with the worst economic downturn in the region. At the same time, we recognise that there have been responsible, meaningful, forward-looking measures. It is common in these positive steps that they were all proposed by the Dialogue or other opposition parties long before the government. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] We asked, we demanded, we offered, and you were late. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Well-bad, part or whole, but our proposals have been implemented. Among other things, the suspension of mass events, the closed gate sports matches, the conversion of secondary and higher education to the digital curriculum, the free internet, the health wage increase, social advertisements in relation to defence, or the use of quick antigen tests, for which the co-chair of the Gergely Christmas Dialogue beat and beat Budapest for a full day, so that the Fidesz government would follow the good example. However, there is another proposal for the Dialogue [[Intruder from Fidesz: Come on!]] Maybe the most important of all. It is about creating income security for the Hungarian people in these times of distress, i.e. introducing the basic income. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Prime Minister! The government has done little to date in this area, even though four out of ten people have lost their income over the last few months, families have lived up to their reserves, and this winter, more and more people are going to have serious problems with their livelihoods. So you will continue, Prime Minister, to implement the proposals of the Dialogue and introduce the basic income? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-11-16-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Prime Minister, please. You have the floor.
u2020-11-16-91	First, let's stick to the facts, although clearly that's not your strong suit. But if this is the price you pay to recreate humor into politics, then of course we are willing to tolerate it; after all, there is too much sharp debate here, we like to be made happy and say that the proposals of your one or two percent party are being implemented by the largest political community in Hungary. But you know what? Let's do this. Just make sure they're good suggestions. For example, here is one of the proposals that we are unfortunately unable to implement, which you have suggested, for example, that pensioners should only be allowed to board the BKV if there is no shop within 500 metres. This, for example, will not be implemented. Although it is undoubtedly difficult to decide that this is one of the proposals or attempts to smuggle humor back. So I would ask the pensioners to calm down, and we will not accept the proposals that my fellow Member Bence Tordai has put on them. As far as the basic income is concerned, I would ask you to reconsider your position here, because from the undisputed, simple position of common sense, from which we look at the world, we see that the basic income is that there are people who work, we take the money from them, and we give it to those who don't work, and they don't want to work. Well, I'm not gonna support that, you can be sure of that. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-92	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-93	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very sad that the Prime Minister is so uninformed about the basic income programme, even though the Dialogue has been recommending it for five years, but so far they have not bothered to understand what it is about, what it is about, what it is about, what it is about, what it is about, what it is not about aid, what it is about, what it is about to encourage work, what it is about to guarantee income security for everyone. I know that this is not important to you on the basis of your policies so far, but I ask you to consider, at least now, in this serious socio-economic crisis, which follows the epidemic, in order to ensure that people have income security. So I'm gonna give you a little something to read, and I hope it doesn't cost you 4.5 million forints, it's not made of potatoes, it's made of paper, so I'd like to teach you the basic income program of the Dialogue. [[You're gonna step at the Prime Minister's desk and put down a stack of documents.]]
u2020-11-16-94	Dear Parliament, I think that the Member has the opportunity to deliver the document elsewhere, at other times, in a different place. [[Bence of Turdai: Not much!]] Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-95	I would like to reiterate once again that the Hungarian social and economic philosophy is based on the fact that we are trying to give work to everyone, even to those in the most difficult situations, even to people with disabilities, not only to have an income, but also to make them feel like a full member of our community. That's why people need to be encouraged to work, and not to say that people, well, you don't have to work, there's a basic income here that you'll get even if you stay home and don't do anything. This is what the basic income is about, and this, knowing the sociological composition of Hungarian society, has completely clear and understandable consequences, with the very consequences of the start-up of the aid-based society, which until 2010, was precisely the official political direction and destroyed Hungary. The reason why Hungary is doing better today than you, I think, with your false assertions at many European countries in terms of its economy, even in times of crisis, is because we do not have a aid-based, work-based economy. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-96	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Honourable Parliament... [[György Szilágyi speaks out loud.]] Congressman Szilágyi, please stop this conversation. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Can it be accepted that a committee president is spreading false news? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, if she accepts the person who is responding, or if she asks the Minister in person for an answer.
u2020-11-16-97	Yeah.
u2020-11-16-98	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-16-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The virus is growing stronger throughout Europe, and in these difficult times everyone is united, all Hungarians are united to play their part in the defense. [[15.50]] Okay, not everyone, because the Hungarian left is twitching the defense wherever it can. Where you start a slander campaign abroad, where you spend your time planning political actions, some people steal electricity from local government offices, but most people try to spread lies and cause panic. Lajos Korózs, Chairman of Parliament's People's Welfare Committee, is unfortunately not here now, who is in the first wave of the epidemic. [[For signal:]] I don't know what he's making right now. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] And then a little later, he came up with fake statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, The latter turned out, of course, that his video had fakes, lies, and statistics used for his post were based on fake data. The case hasn't had any consequences since then. Lajos Korózs did not take responsibility, he did not give up the leadership of the People's Welfare Committee, although this would have been expected after his first scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the left, it's perfectly okay for the president of the People's Welfare Committee to produce kamuvido and fake statistics, trying to manipulate people's fears about the epidemic. Of course, if it weren't for an epidemic, we could laugh at what Louis Korózs has put his head on, and whether one in ten of his claims is right, but there's an emergency, there's an emergency, there's an epidemic, and it overrides everything. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you how to work like this, how to work like this all the time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They have to respond to fake news. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-11-16-100	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The MSZP did the right thing by making the video, and it would shoot the video again. Who's that quote from? From Agnes Kunhalmi, co-chair of the MSZP. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] Among other things, there are no consequences on the left because everyone on the left is up to their necks in this story. Because who was the first person to share this fake movie with Lajos Korózs on Facebook? Bertalan Tóth, president of the party. And as it turns out, he knew before that this video was going to be ready. Who was the other person who shared this on her Facebook page? Szabó Timea. He also erased this video, as Bertalan Tóth did, as Lajos Korózs did after it turned out to be completely false. Who here referred to Athina Németh at the plenary session of the People's Welfare Committee, apart from Lajos Korózs? [[György Szilágyi: Korózs is the new Soros!]] Szabó Timea, also a candidate for Prime Minister of one of the left-wing parties. Everyone is up to their necks, and even our colleague György Szilágyi saved Lajos Korózs from Jobbik a few days ago. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are pathetic...]] With such sentences, it was not separated from him, but even the Jobbik here tried to excuse Lajos Korózs. Because the behaviour of the entire left during the virus is precisely such, otherwise it is based on the generation of false news that collapses as a house of cards in days, whether it does not work in parliament, they are trying to spread it abroad; even at home, what we have quoted from Szabó Timea today is that it is unnecessary and too dangerous to create hospital beds for patients with coronal viruses, and nine of those who return home die, which turned out to be exactly what he said; and it also turned out to be a lie, and the whole left is up to their necks, which is why this unsuitable video is still being saved to this day. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-102	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in return.
u2020-11-16-103	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us ask the most important question, why is the opposition acting this way? We believe that hatred, hatred of the opposition overrides everything. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] The important thing for them is to block the government's work; for them, it is to dissipate professionals, epidemiological experts, who are able to endure 24 hours a day on a daily basis. They have an interest in creating mistrust against doctors, health workers, and thus ziling Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] They've just started, they've done this several times in history. There's more evidence that this hatred that's directed towards us hasn't just developed in them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary. Please.
u2020-11-16-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, no hair of his hair was bent to Lajos Korózs, nor to Szabó Timea, nor to anyone else. No apology, no accountability. The investigation into this case didn't take a day at MSZP, and they're already talking about everyone's innocence. And neither the Financial Times nor the Euronews on their website, on their side, did not correct these news, but left the false news up. And Lajos Korózs produced not only camuvideo, but also fake statistics, and he explained that he didn't realize that in a 2016 mortality data, statistical data contained the corona virus as a cause of death. It's obviously untruthful. This shows only one thing: the Hungarian left is not interested in the defence against the epidemic, but only the possibility of gaining power. If they can make false claims about anyone, it could be emergency services, hospitals, hospital beds, police, any other epidemiological measures, all they care about is getting power and money, and that's why it's up to doctors and nurses. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They can and are willing to destroy trust in paramedics. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-106	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Where is the acquisition of the coronal virus in Hungary? It's an address. Dear Parliament, Because of his absence, the Minister has given Mr. Bence Rétvári the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi nods.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the pandemic started in the spring takes its victims worldwide. The tens of thousands of Hungarian doctors, nurses and health workers have done their best and do what we are grateful for. But it's not possible to fight the virus permanently without proper vaccination. The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to save the lives and health of as many people as possible. The fight against the virus and the cure are taking place, and we are doing well in this international comparison. The aim must now be to get a vaccine as quickly and as safe as possible, free from complications. Of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party is giving the government all the support they need. As Prime Minister said, the appropriate vaccine is already on the horizon and will be available within a visible time frame. This is supported by the opinion of the leaders of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and they are also optimistic on this issue. According to experts, there are about ten vaccines worldwide that provide adequate protection against the deadly virus. These research is conducted in different countries. We understand that we are currently dealing with all countries where there is promise of vaccine research, such as vaccines from American, Chinese, Russian, Israeli or other countries. It is also part of the negotiations that we can start production at home on the basis of licenses. Dear Secretary of State, Today, the scale of costs and the work on purchasing are secondary, as we are in competition with time. Now we have to work to get our country a vaccine as quickly as possible with proper health care. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State where the acquisition of the vaccine against the corona virus is in Hungary; with which countries we are negotiating the procurement and where the negotiations are going. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary's aim is to ensure that Hungarians are among the first to receive the vaccine among the countries of the world. During the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, we have also sought to obtain protective equipment from wherever possible, and we are now striving to provide the possibility of obtaining effective and safe vaccination for the Hungarian people wherever possible. That's why we're negotiating with almost everyone in the world who's involved in any kind of vaccine testing and is at different stages of it. As you said, Congressman, there are Americans, there are Germans, there are Chinese, there are Israelis, there are Russians, there are different researches. Wherever the first successful result comes from, the product is passed through the experimental phases and can be mass-produced, Hungary will be among the first to acquire it for the Hungarian people. [[16.00]] For this reason, we accelerated the domestic authorisation option in Hungary, so that there would be no legal barrier to the vaccination of Hungarian people. As has been said several times, we have also provided the budgetary framework for this, and we have committed 13 billion forints in the common European mechanism. However, we have already seen during the first wave that European procurement is not always the fastest. When we were going to get respirators in the joint European procurement, we had 52 weeks' delivery deadline for joint EU procurement to deliver respirators, which means we might not even have respirators right now. Hungary was therefore looking for other ways, and it was right to do so because it was more effective. That is why we are now world-wide beaters in proportion to the ventilators, because we have not only been waiting for others to get this for us, but we have trusted in ourselves, and based on our own resources we have obtained the amount of ventilator needed for the safe provision of Hungarian people in Hungarian hospitals. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-110	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you, Mr State Secretary, for your reply, and we welcome the Government's announcement that the vaccine will be free and voluntary for all Hungarians. The left is pursuing a death campaign and provokes a foolish ideological debate even on the case of the vaccine against the virus, but we are pleased that the government is the first to save the lives and health of Hungarian people, so it wants to obtain vaccines as quickly and as efficiently as possible without any ideology and party policy. We welcome this and support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-113	Thank you very much. The false news production on the left, Congressman, has not ignored the issue of vaccine in the last few days. KGBéla's party, representatives of Jobbik [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Csaba Gyüre and Koloman Brenner published on their own Facebook site that the government is planning only and exclusively to purchase Russian and Chinese vaccines, while we made it clear that we don't care where the first one will be, where the first one will be, we want to get it to the Hungarian people. And as you said, both Jobbik and the other left parties are trying to fabricate an ideological debate, trying to tell people that one or another, just because of their country of origin, will not be enough. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, We are talking about the health of Hungarian people, and you are saying that you care about the country of origin and not how we can get the vaccine to Hungarian people sooner. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] And then the momentists make a joke about turning it in to the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, and if it works, if it doesn't work, we can only win. They joke about this, but the Hungarian people don't want the jokes and false news of the left, they want it as soon as possible. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the vaccine. It seems they can rely only on Fidesz-KDNP in this, too. [[Crying out of Jobbik's ranks. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-114	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will we tolerate the EU's double standards against Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, 16 years since our accession to the European Union are sufficient to produce a balance sheet. According to the Hungarian Movement, even the pre-accession referendum campaign was misleading, as it presented only the advantages and the negatives were hardly heard. Since then, we have come even closer to the united states of Europe, the Union's imperial aspirations are growing stronger, while the promises with which we have been blessed have not been fulfilled. Prices were essentially balanced, but wages were not. Thomas Piketty, the famous French economist, has shown that more profits go from Hungary to the West through multi-enterprises than EU funding comes back. It is also interesting that in 2006 there was no concern about the rule of law, and now they want to force mass migration and the demands of the LGBTQ lobby on us. Who knows what they're gonna do in the future, blackmailing us with the money we deserve? We therefore have to ask: must Hungary, under all circumstances, be a member of the European Union? According to the Hungarian Movement, we cannot step out from one year to the next, but we need to take stock of our accession to the European Union and take stock of our other options. There is life outside the EU, and there will be life after the end of the Union, and we need to be ready for this by 2030. Unfortunately, the Fundamental Law currently prohibits us from holding a referendum on our membership. My question, Prime Minister, is that you are willing to amend the Fundamental Law so that, like the entry into the EU, Hungarian society can decide on exit in a referendum after bitter experiences. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2020-11-16-116	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who will answer the immediate question. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-11-16-117	It is still possible to ask the question, as you have said, my honourable fellow Member, that it is imperative and in all circumstances that a country, such as Hungary, should be a member of the Union. It's an important question, but I'm taking a different approach to your dilemma. I am asking what is the point of the European Union. The point of the European Union is that the nations that are associated with each other remain. That is why the Union makes sense only as long as the associated countries and Member States which entered the EU are promoting their national survival, because that is the point, that is the purpose, and that is why it was created, and that is why we have joined it. So, in my opinion, yes, let us be members of the European Union, let us fight the internal battles, so that our Union is a community that serves the purpose of us Hungarians as we want, as it comes from our history, our tradition, our perception, our heart, our philosophy, we can live our own lives, and in a thousand years we can stand here and argue, if not personally, but those who will then have to deal with it. If we look at the issue from here, I think we are in the right place in the European Union. The other question that you are asking is related to competitiveness and the EU's money, which is hurting me, like you, that I think it is because of Western propaganda, by the way, as if we were getting money from the European Union, and we were taking net profits, while other states were net contributors like Germany. Since I do not have time to explain this, this would require an entire plenary session, and I just want to make it clear: it is not so. It's not like that! In fact, if there is a real net winner, he is the winner of the entire EU budget system, Germany itself, who is the biggest winner of the entire European economy, even though the impression at first sight is that he is a contributor. But no, he's a net beneficiary of this system. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-118	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give you the floor in return, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-16-119	Mr. Prime Minister, You cannot help noticing where the European Union is headed. I started my speech with the accession 16 years ago, and I did not end by accident that by 2030 Hungary should be prepared for life outside the European Union or after the European Union, because we are talking about an empire that limits our sovereignty, which is going to permanently push Hungary into colonial lines and pump the money out of this place through multi-company companies. It must be possible, according to the Hungarian Movement, to amend the Fundamental Law so that we can decide on our membership once again in a referendum. I ask you, Prime Minister, to answer that, to be willing to open this opportunity to the Hungarian people, so that, like accession, they can decide on exit in a referendum. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2020-11-16-120	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-121	I support the decision of the Hungarian Parliament on European Union issues. As for the year 2030 or the year 28, I think it is a very important year, because it will happen, as we hope, and if we work well, then a situation will occur when Hungary becomes a net contributor in the European Union. Because by then, the difference that we have suffered as a competitive disadvantage because of the communist past will be balanced, and it was a competitive advantage for the others. So the figures look like I have a total of EUR 5,7 billion of data here, on an annual basis and obviously here, in various titles from Hungary to companies operating in EU Member States. That's what you used to say. On the other hand, we are receiving EUR 4.2 billion from the EU budget. The situation is quite clear, it is because it was communism here, but we joined the Union, which means that we have to compete on a disadvantage, the Union compensates for some of the money that it can get out of here because of the competitive advantage. But that will change by 2030. I'm gonna say it again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] we'll be strong, big, we'll be able to enforce our interests, we'll evolve, and that's what's gonna happen. [[The president's ringing again.]] that Hungary will certainly be one of the most developed countries, which will not be a net cash withdrawal, a net contributor, and then we can think about the issues that you have raised. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2020-11-16-122	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! I don't know if you've heard of it, but your health minister, Miklós Kásler, released a statement in the propaganda door a few days ago, which suggests that everyone in this country is about to be responsible for the spread of the epidemic, just not the people who are sitting in the government. After 9 months of incoherence, your minister made a statement to you, which you call responsible government among your ranks. But while we're at it, Prime Minister, please tell me who you're going to blame, and who you're going to be responsible for the fact that you thought the most important thing was that the left-winger and the exchange gate should be compensated for wages instead of the people who lost their livelihood in the last few months or the last few weeks. Or who will take political responsibility for the fact that when health is in a state of disaster, when critical professional shortages threaten to collapse, you, in those red chairs, would rather be tampering with the electoral law? Who among you will take political responsibility for the failure of both health and economic crisis management of this government? Look, Prime Minister. There are some of us in this country who think that you should take this responsibility after all. Hundreds die and thousands lose their livelihood every day in this country, and now this country needs a strong and courageous leader who is strong and brave enough to take responsibility, and not a weak man who hides from this responsibility. At least be strong, Prime Minister, since the forint is weak. Mr. Kásler says it is the responsibility of the people to keep us here in the fight against the epidemic. I think that a responsible leader in such a situation takes responsibility for himself. I'm asking Prime Minister that you can do this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-124	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-125	I am happy to be at your disposal when this outbreak has been stopped and the virus has been destroyed with the help of the vaccine, and we can draw a balance on how Hungary has performed in an international comparison. I'm looking forward to it, but it's not the time, it's the time to defend ourselves, and I don't think it helps to defend yourself if you're deceiving people. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] You say things here that just don't correspond to reality. He's accusing the government of not being prepared. I would like to say that in 2019 the number of working doctors was 41,289, which, compared to 2010, shows an increase of 7,000 compared to what your ally experienced during his administration. You say we don't do anything, we don't give money to health care, while, by the way, we raised the wages of nurses in this cycle by 72 percent, and we're about to raise the wages of around a hundred percent from January 1st. Why are you telling the audience that because you can't fool us, but why are you using the public to tell people the truth through the television screen? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No mediation.]] What you're saying is not true! We did defend ourselves, we did prepare ourselves, we mobilized resources, and we will defeat the virus, even if not everyone is clearly rooting for people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-126	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-127	In some respects, the time for reckoning will indeed be when Hungary has overcome this epidemic and this crisis, but there is another date and another statement that I would like to quote to you, Prime Minister. On 16 September, you came forward to the Hungarian public, if you are already lying and not using your TV screen, you said that we will save everyone who has been caught up with the epidemic.Now we are writing in mid-November, and since then exactly 2544 Hungarian compatriots have died. I would like to ask the Hungarian Parliament to remember this 2544 Hungarian countrymen in the next few seconds, one minute. You too, Prime Minister. [[The representatives of the Jobbik stand up. It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-128	Dear Parliament,
u2020-11-16-129	[[Without sound:]] I'll give you an answer, if you'll excuse me.
u2020-11-16-130	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-131	I continue to claim that we will cure anyone who can be cured by human calculation. No one can, by definition, undertake to cure patients who cannot be saved, and it is more than pointless to us or to Hungarian doctors as an expectation. Moreover, Hungarian statistics clearly and clearly address this situation correctly, because Hungarian statistics do not disclose who died because of the coronal virus infection, so to speak, but those who died in it and those who died with this infection, even if the direct cause of death was not the coronal virus. These are all published so that people can get a real and real picture of the situation. So I'm asking you to support the government's defense so that the virus can take as few victims as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-132	Dear Parliament, Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why are new funds being taken from the municipalities? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2020-11-16-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Governments move resources from less important areas around the world to the front line of defence, to health care, to the rescue of SMEs, to the social sphere and to the municipalities working in the front line of defence. Compared to this, in recent months you have taken away the portion of the car tax that has remained in place from the municipalities, which meant some 34 billion dollars of redeployment and withdrawal. This meant a withdrawal of some 450 million in Miskolc, my hometown. This could be used to renovate roads, improve roads, and mess around even during this period. But it has been taken away and it is also planned to take away public support for local public transport in the future. For example, in Miskolc, this means an item of about 500 million. Obviously, it's very difficult to finance the concentration of flights. In the West, community transport is supported by the municipality, the state and its users, up to one third to one third. We're a long way from this, Prime Minister. The fact is, for example, that Miskolc is affected by the loss of revenue caused by the epidemic and by the government's withdrawal of funds, as a whole, by about 7 billion. This is a very drastic loss and, compared to this, two more areas are planned to withdraw funds, on the one hand, to reorganize the public utility tax on water services companies in such a way that it represents a burden of billions in Budapest and can add hundreds of millions in many cities with county rights. For example, with regard to Miskolc, this additional burden is 300 million, which is obviously to be paid indirectly by the Miskolcs. I propose that this proposal be withdrawn, as tomorrow the Parliament can vote on this very harmfully for Hungarians living in several major cities, and that they withdraw from the local business tax, from the proposals that have further reduced revenue that we have heard about recently. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-134	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-135	Dear fellow Member, I believe that we do not have to fight the debate that is encoded in the differences in the economic philosophy of our parties. So we're a party for tax cuts, and we think it's good for us to cut as much tax as possible, and you're a party for tax increases, because you think it's good to have as much money as possible to be redistributed as fairly as you think. Our approach is quite different, we think that in order to be a job, we have to leave as much income as possible for people and entrepreneurs. But this is a debate we can't resolve here. As for the specific municipal situation, I can answer you there, after you are a representative of Miskolc, that I have no knowledge that any investment in Miskolc would be in danger, and if you look at the last ten years in the case of Miskolc, then you can see that Miskolc has made a lot of progress. We have not only taken over your city's debt, but we have given you plenty of development resources, and even now there are improvements in progress, and be sure that the Miskolcs will receive all the development resources in the next period as well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2020-11-16-136	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2020-11-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The quality of urban management is indeed threatened by this situation, I think; and several locally funded investments may be compromised. Don't forget that 100 percent of the car tax remained in the municipalities before 2010. After 2010, you took 60 percent of it in the first round, and now it seems that it is being taken away entirely from the local authorities in terms of the future. However, in the eight years before 2010, public funding for local public transport was also higher. In some cases, the government gave 1 forint for the municipality. We're a long way from this, Prime Minister. The professional organisation of the water utility companies has asked that they simply eliminate this embarrassing public utility. This would be the easiest, since at this difficult time, it would help these companies to stay on their feet. Proposals concerning local business tax should be withdrawn because if they do so without compensation and do not compensate local governments in this sense [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It can destroy local governments, so it can destroy people's everyday lives. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-138	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-11-16-139	Honourable Congressman, There is no way to change the utility tax now, because the consideration of our sense of justice behind it remains the same. So what we want to achieve in Hungary is that a liter of water is the same for every person in the country, wherever you live. I know that metropolitans, of course, feel that this is not fair, because there is a cheaper way to organize the water supply, and if it can be arranged at a cheaper rate, then why is it not cheaper than them? All I ask of all people in the big city is that we also take into account that people live elsewhere in the country, and there are some services such as water, gas, electricity, I think this is also the garbage service, where we should make sure that all Hungarians live anywhere for one unit of consumption, pay the same amount in small or large settlements. That's what we're trying to do. So we do not want to take money from local governments, but we want to create such a Hungary, which is not easy. But in order not to have such a professional debate, I bring it here that when you were on the government, including you, HUF 220 billion was taken from the municipalities; and our government took over 1,400 billion forints of debt from them, which is part of our conversation. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-140	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Those who wish to leave the Chamber, please do so quietly and allow for further speeches. [[Noise. Several Members leave the room.]] Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Debate with the municipalities?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply, undersecretary of State, Deputy Minister. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm asking for your understanding, but you were just in there, Secretary of State Kontra. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will respond if you accept.
u2020-11-16-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll take it.
u2020-11-16-142	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-143	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank the thousands of municipal workers who are trying to make life a little easier for the people who live there during the period of the virus. When we overcome this epidemic, we will overcome the virus, and we will see that we owe it not to the government, but to the people who have done the self - sacrificing work, that the epidemic will be overcome. While they are working, you are doing everything you can to make their work difficult; you are drawing resources from them and thus from the people who live there. While the virus is raging, instead of doing mass, free testing, instead of making wage subsidies general instead of helping pensioners, you're playing to bleed out the municipalities. Their Prime Minister always refers to Germany, Austria, as he watches what they do. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Members, I suggest that they follow them, too, in terms of their support for the municipalities and their support for the virus situation in particular. You do not do this, but you take 80 billion from the capital, many billions from the districts and other settlements, whether it be business tax or increased solidarity tax. Free parking is one of the last such points when it was decided that the municipalities could not collect the parking fee, which again reduces the revenue of the municipalities by hundreds of millions per month, causes traffic chaos; the residents cannot park or pollution increases significantly due to circulation. Of course, you know that because you read from your own experts that this is harmful to the virus, it's much easier to infect. I ask the honourable Secretary of State why they refuse to support the municipalities, like Austria, Germany. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-11-16-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The municipalities are really doing their job, doing their job, and I think that basically the municipal system is doing well. There is no doubt that in this country there are different municipalities in different areas of the country. In order to compensate for this disparate situation to some extent, we have established a new funding system that was needed because, under your governance, the municipal system was on the verge of total financial inability. In your time, the State Audit Office examined the operation of the municipalities and explained that the HUF 2000 billion was withdrawn from the operation of the municipal system. So when you're talking about withdrawal, you're obviously talking about the voice of conscience. Since 2010, our government, Fidesz-KDNP, has continuously taken steps to ensure the stability of the situation of the municipalities, so that the debt transfer has taken place, so that the restructuring of the task system has taken place and a task financing system has been established that will fairly adapt the state support of the municipalities to the given task. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that, as economic performance increases, the increase in local business tax provides significant free resources for municipalities with significant business tax revenues, so that these municipalities are able to and need to be involved in bearing the common burden. This is done by paying the solidarity contribution. The municipal system is functioning well, maintaining its functionality. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Fidesz Members, It is clear that individual representatives of Budapest who have been elected as Fidesz in Budapest are fleeing; they do not wish to start again, because they do not dare to look into the eyes of the Budapest people in the next election, because they know that they have been badly deceived by the Budapest people, they have been cut through the slate. It doesn't work that you withdraw 80 billion from Budapest, and the districts are constantly being punished. Dear Secretary of State, Give me a specific answer to two things, although this is not your strength. One is that there are secret negotiations with Parragh on the full withdrawal of the tax. The other is why the government office does not inform municipalities about the number of covid patients in the settlement, how many died. Why is it that a Fidesz congressman gets information, and I've asked for it more than once, and they don't give it to me? What is this insufferable lawlessness, Mr. Secretary of State?Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-16-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It's worth talking about illegals when they steal electricity in your conference room and miner bitcoin; I think that's something you might want to deal with. He's obviously well-trained in this case. And it would be a very big mistake to turn the country against metropolitan representatives versus rural representatives or capital financing versus rural funding. [[16.30]] Obviously, there is a particular situation in the country that characterizes the country's economy, a given geographical location, an inherited economic situation, to which this government has done a great deal to compensate, while, in your time, Mónika Lamperth's illustrious words: they know what they have to do to provide funding only where local government representatives and mayors are appropriate. This is not the way we represent, the Prime Minister has just heard in his speech: the opposition Miskolc also receives the necessary resources and improvements, and that is the case with Budapest, as is the case with the renewal of the metro, so is the renovation of the Chain Bridge, so is the purchase of public transport. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-150	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Congressman Lajos Oláh came forward. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 126. Paragraph 5 of this Article gives you the opportunity to say it after immediate questions. Thank you for your understanding. [[Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Ungár... [[To the intervention of Lajos Oláh:]] Please, Congressman, I didn't give you the floor. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-151	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, There's been a lot of talk today about who's spreading the rumors and who's making party political battles out of the corona virus. I would like to ask you to take into account that not only have you been elected to direct the defence of the Hungarian community, but you have also been elected municipal leaders to protect their local communities and to promote this protection as much as possible. András Nemény recently said that out of the 32 machines of Markusovszky Hospital, there were only 17 respirators with whom they could be operated, and this caused serious problems in the operation of the hospital. The fact is that this is a fact that others have said before that doctors were directed from Szombathely to Győr, and therefore the hospital in Szombathely often could not receive patients. Some people involved in urban politics had to be transported to Sopron, for example. When the mayor of Szombathely said this, then, in response, both the MP of the region and one of the Fidesz MEPs accused the mayor of party politics and rumours who did nothing but make statements to protect his own community. I quote from the official information of the city's administration:. The fact is that the doctors in Szombathely served in the hospital in Győr for four weeks, the fact is that as the hospitals were slowly filled nationwide, there was no exception to the hospital in Szombathely, and the fact is that this is not good for the doctors in Szombathely, as fewer doctors could normally treat fewer patients. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Later on the day of the declaration, doctors returned to the city and re-medicated patients at Saturday. It is very nice and correct that this has happened, but if Mr. Mayor hadn't taken this matter out in public, then the people of Saturday couldn't have received proper care. Please respond to that.
u2020-11-16-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In Hungary, all patients were treated in the previous days, wherever they were, from small settlements, large settlements, from Western Hungary, from Eastern Hungary, everyone was provided. This is not clear in Europe at all. You know that there are countries, such as France or Belgium, which take some of the patients to neighbouring Germany. You know that there are countries, say Spain, where they are no longer in the intensive care room, but in the dining room, nurses, doctors in the dining room. There is no such thing in Hungary. And you have obviously read the rebuttal of the hospital, which has clearly refuted what you have said here in Parliament, that a few percent of the doctors have actually been transferred, and the nurses are well-known, and this has been happening in Hungary for weeks and months, where they were most needed. But when the mayor said that in order to gain political benefit from this action, this referral had already ceased, according to the hospital's statement, honourable Member. He only did it to gain political capital as much as possible, using people's fear of the coronal virus to generate political benefits for himself. And it doesn't bother him that when he does that, the people who live there who belong to this hospital are actually destroying his trust in the hospital, because he's telling people whatever he says, he's telling people that they can't trust the hospital that supplies them, because he says there's no right doctor in that hospital to take care of them. Wherein, honourable Member, no one has been rejected in recent years, who really needed treatment with a coronal virus. You are familiar with the procedure, you contact your family doctor, the general doctor with the ambulance service or with whom you need to give the appropriate instructions, so we provide care for everyone. You know, in the samples, now the filter buses are testing us to feed everyone, and there's no news like many other countries that are much richer than us that can be read.
u2020-11-16-154	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-155	Dear Secretary of State, In contrast to what you said, the fact that, in reality, apart from propaganda, the leader of the Iron County Defense Council, who is very difficult to accuse of opposition rejection, has not been informed even Tuesday afternoon that doctors from Szombathely will return to Szombathely. That's the thing. So, overall, what you're saying is a very, very good Fidesz announcement, but you just don't respond to the reality that relatives and grandmothers of people on Saturdays ended up in Sopron, Győr without knowing where their parents were and that they had to be further away, even though the doctors on Saturday could have cured them. Therefore, in order to confront the government with reality, the city administration asks that all residents of Szombathely.hu write that if they receive a benefit they deserve better. Thank you very much. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2020-11-16-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You can read the statement, and I think you also read the hospital's announcement, that when András Nemény held this press conference, the doctors were already at the institution in Szombathely. The institution will tell you... Of course, you called this Fidesz propaganda, as the hospital director says, honourable Member, it is clear from this that who is... well, to quote a worse sentence of the last century: who is not with us is against us; if you do not say the hospital director-general, which you like, then this is Fidesz propaganda for you. That is why the Moment says that it will de-fidesz the whole of Hungary, from the administration of the courts to the administration of the prosecutors, to the administration of health care, because anyone who refuses to say the text that you do not have adequate care in Hungary during the coronal virus epidemic is Fidesz-propagandist to you. He may have been a doctor and spent decades on the field, and he has been working day and night for months to see every patient in his own hospital, if he may say that we do, we have doctors, we have respirators, and we can provide everyone with a referral system, of course, according to which ambulances take patients day and day to day to different hospitals, and they may take someone one day to the next, but this is done according to protocol, it works on a predictable, predictable schedule - if one does represent such a position, which does not fit your narrative, the Fidesz-propagandist. Please read the hospital's announcement, and from there on, you'll be aware of the reality. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-158	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question: what is going on at MTVA? It's an address. Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We've known for a long time that MTVA, public service television and radio are Fidesz mouthpieces, but now there's evidence. Several recordings prove that. Several audio recordings have recently been revealed, where the chief editor and news director of MTVA instructs employees to support Fidesz on public television, and those who do not like it are fired. Dear Secretary of State, Just out of curiosity, today the message is gone, the instruction from the communications department on public service television, what kind of propaganda do you have to press? Are these messages and instructions sent weekly or daily? It seems that you do not know the public service code, so I would like to draw your attention to some of the principles that are seriously damaged on public service television and radio. The public service media service operates independently of the state and economic operators. The managers of the public media service provider shall enjoy professional autonomy. The aim of the Code is to present diverging opinions, to hold discussions on community affairs, and to publish programmes with diverse, rich variety of values. [[16.40]] In addition, a presentation of events of major importance to society. This is why, for example, the protest was not reported at the University of Acting Arts. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply, and he will allow them to report on the Biden victory on public service television, because it has not been reported for more than a week now. And, if you please, let's leave the lie that you have nothing to do with this, because this recording is clear evidence. So, Mr. Secretary of State, when are you going to let public television and radio employees work? When will the threats stop? When will they stop manipulating the work of the workers there? When will public service television be provided? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the objectives and principles of radio set out in the Code [[The president's ringing again.]] That's how public television and radio work? I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-16-160	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, There is a fundamental difference between you and our attitude: unlike you, we do not consider it our job to classify editorial work, even if you do so from time to time, week to week. What I think is an important issue, while the debate on individual media is one of the eternal debates, but what is important is that the Hungarian press is more diverse than in previous periods, everyone can find media that meet their own tastes, views and needs. If you look at all this from the numbers, so that there is not just one such statement in the air, then I can tell you that in 2013 there were 3,200 media in Hungary, today 6700; while the number of online media increased by 40 percent. Under these circumstances, the real reason for these speeches, such as these, is not because you are concerned about freedom of opinion, but because you want to pressure certain media. That's what they do when they boycott TV channels. As usual, they refer to some kind of fascism, which is strange when your mayor personally campaigned for a candidate for judapest. I ask you to accept that there are also voices in public that you may disagree with. We also accept it; I think that is the essence of freedom of opinion. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-163	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, That wasn't an answer to my question. And you know very well that we are not talking about the whole Hungarian press, we are talking about public service television and radio. We are not talking about HírTV and TV2, which is privately owned, this public service TV and radio works from Hungarian taxpayers' forints. It's also from the forints of taxpayers who didn't vote for Fidesz, which is why it's terrible that you tell them to campaign for Fidesz. You don't comply with your own Fundamental Law. Let me quote the IX. Article 2 (2): Hungary recognises and protects the freedom and diversity of the press and ensures the conditions for free information necessary for the development of democratic public opinion. You also violate your own Fundamental Law and crush it with your feet. Is that what you call a rule of law? They often say why we question the rule of law, for example. Two things are possible, Mr. Secretary. One of them is that you're ordering your public-service TV staff to do this, then it's illegal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The other one, they do it on their own. [[The president's ringing again.]] Then they're not supposed to be on public television, so get over to NewsTV. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] or TV2!
u2020-11-16-164	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The phenomenon we're talking about is that you're targeting a psychic, quite simply because you don't like what's being said there. And by the way, speaking of attitude, we didn't break into an editorial office, we didn't break into another newspaper, we didn't want a journalist because you didn't like what he wrote. We didn't join the TV station demanding that they read some kind of statement. Plus, they got caught up in the premeditated charade. And we're not boycotting television, you are. So much for your relationship to the freedom of opinion and freedom of the press. And before you mention censorship next time or say, please ask the mayor why he wants to oversee four pages in every free paper, or four pages. Now, that censorship, stand up against it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-166	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Can you allow the left to openly threaten state officials? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the Deputy Minister the right to reply. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The name of the radical Gyurcsányist flu, Gergely Homonnay, is widely known. Homonnay, imagining himself as a prophet of democracy, has more obscene words than obscene words for Hungarian state leaders. It is worrying that in the house on the left there is only a cry of silence, and they do not realize that unscrupulous abuse is well beyond the limits of civilised political expression. The DK man wanted the Prime Minister dead the other day, unmistakably. But it doesn't seem like it's just a one-time derailment. At the moment, in connection with the fundamental amendment to the family protection law, his followers were encouraged to share his comment on the gross adjectives of Minister Katalin Novák. Looks like this is DK's real face. I think the left has crossed a line again. It is false that while Ferenc Gyurcsány is on his community side singing his joys about the need to continue the political struggles in the language of love, it was earlier about the fact that the players on the right will be earth-runners in every sense. In addition to the daily lamentation of democracy, however, it would not hurt Homonnay to look around his own post when Lajos Korózs tries to deceive the Hungarian people with camuvideos and camouflage officers, in such a time of distress and mental burden. All of this shows that the left led by Gyurcsány cannot present any meaningful purpose other than fideszállítás in the event of a possible win in 2022. In the light of what has been said, I ask, did you allow the left to openly threaten state officials? Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-168	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of State Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary's Fundamental Law is the highest source of law, which contains rules on how to exercise power, its structure, fundamental rights and obligations. The Fundamental Law has an important IX. It also states that freedom of expression should not be aimed at violating the human dignity of others. This is the basis that has developed over the past thirty years, which is the practice of the courts and, in fact, the unity of Parliament beyond party policy logic, from cycle to cycle, has advocated this conclusion or framework, so that everyone can speak freely, but no human dignity can be questioned or violated in human dignity. The speeches you quoted, I also think I say this without any party policy consideration, are beyond this discretion and cannot be accepted. Of course, the important question is that it is worth getting involved in long-term legal proceedings. Probably not, it is likely that public actors also have a tolerance obligation in this respect. But I think that even if there are few things in the House that we can agree on, it must be a national minimum that such manifestations have no place in Hungarian public life, and if there are such manifestations, then everyone who is a member of the Hungarian Parliament, regardless of the party political side, will distance themselves from them. That hasn't happened before today. But let's not be sad or hopeless, it's a long day. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-170	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-171	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Unfortunately, the behaviour of the left constantly shows that they hate the government more than they love their country. Remember, the left is in an alliance with those who broke down their own nation on 5 December 2004 and have been pursuing this policy ever since, how they can tangle the development of their own nation. [[16.50]] They are in league with those who look to power as a goal, and in order to achieve their goals, they threaten to use lamp irons, and they desire the death of others. One saying came to my mind about the unscrupulous power efforts of the left. [[Zoltán Balczó: Let's hear it!]] : å Whoever sacrifices his conscience for ambition burns the image to get the ashes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For the Government of Hungary, trust from voters is nothing more than a tool to help Hungarian families; this is proven by countless measures. Ferenc Gyurcsány sent a message once before:. You can leave Hungary, you can leave us here, please! Here. Let's go! It is rare to agree with him, but Gergely Homonnay could take his master's advice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-172	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-173	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Ferenc Gyurcsány also mentioned his comment on Attila Vidnyánszky, which is outrageous in my view, because it is quite clear that in the context of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, there is a professional-art conflict, there is disagreement between representatives of different branches of art, someone thinks about the world that way, someone thinks about the world. However, we think very strongly that everyone has the right to make their own views known, and elected politicians have no business threatening dissidents. We will be on the side of freedom, freedom of expression and the protection of human dignity in each of these situations. This is not the language of love that Hungarian people would appreciate or accept, thank God, but I am the only one adding it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question: What does the government do for workers and businesses during the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic? In response to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda granted Mr. Secretary of State the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The fight against the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic has been successfully fought by the country. According to international analyses, Hungary is one of the world's 25 most defensive countries. For this reason, I thank the cooperating population, health workers working at a strained pace, and not least the government, which has taken the necessary measures to protect them, and has also taken the complex measures to mitigate the harmful consequences of the crisis caused by the virus. The government has already helped some 280 thousand workers with wage subsidies announced during the first wave of the outbreak in the economic plan to mitigate the effects of the coronal virus crisis. Nearly 15 thousand companies applied for employment of 207 thousand employees, worth nearly HUF 35 billion. More than 36,000 businesses have applied for wage support with a total cost of HUF 57 billion, and employers have been able to provide jobs for some 49 thousand job seekers. Tourism and catering, trade and manufacturing companies were the most interested in general wage support programmes. It is important for the government to support R &amp; D and innovation workers in the competition sector, as the performance of highly qualified professionals determines Hungary's future. The unique 40 percent R &amp; D wage support was also requested by nearly 1300 companies in the international outlook. The government has contributed to keeping almost 23,000 research and development engineers' jobs. The total cost of the aid exceeded HUF 17 billion. Most of the applications came from the university cities. Dear Secretary of State, The wage subsidies and other measures in the economic protection action plan have improved the prospects and training opportunities of around one million workers in total. In this regard, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] what the government is doing for workers and businesses during the second wave of the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-176	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In addition to protecting human life and health, our most important goal is to protect jobs and create new jobs. To this end, the government has indeed decided on the economic protection action plan, which was a historic package during the spring period, and, as you said, some one million people could benefit from some kind of labour market or training support, thanks to the measures taken. Our aim is clear and clear: the economy should move towards growth as soon as possible, maintain jobs and create new jobs, and maintain the standard of living of families. Honourable Congressman, Despite the radically changed situation, the national government is doing everything it can to protect domestic jobs: on the one hand, we are helping companies in the catering and leisure sectors with tax incentives, as the workers were affected by the second wave of the virus, perhaps the fastest, the most dramatic and the most dramatic. These companies, these companies, are exempt from payment of social contribution tax and vocational training and rehabilitation contributions, and in the case of small business taxpayers, personal payments are not included in the tax base. Moreover, and this is an important measure, according to the government's decision, VAT on meals to be taken has decreased to 5 percent. This is a huge help for the businesses concerned, because there is a considerable amount of resources available to pay wages. But we also help them with wage support, 50 percent of the wages are what we pay them. We have two conditions: keep your employees and pay their wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-179	Thank you very much. I think it is particularly important to support people working in tourism and catering, as has been said in the response. I would like to draw attention to the fact that support for suppliers and service providers, such as laundry, should not be forgotten. I think that, at this time, constructive proposals and non-greasy attacks are needed, even if we fundamentally think differently about tackling the crisis, because we are thinking about tax cuts, while the left is thinking about tax increases. I think this can be resolved through constructive debates, but as there have been manifestations here today, they are not appropriate for this period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-181	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to all these advantages, we have decided on an important, well-established measure for restaurants and catering companies in the spring, and we have decided to reduce the administrative burden of home delivery, i.e. to involve market players who are not in normal peacetime, including taxi drivers. This is a great help for both restaurants and passengers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We also provide support to accommodation providers, where 80% of previous bookings are paid in order to keep workers who are employed. Here, too, we expect workers to be kept and paid their wages. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-182	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We are living in a difficult time here in the shadow of the coronal virus epidemic, and there is a great deal of pressure on the health system, on the national economy and so also on the everyday life of Hungarian people. Businesses, catering and entertainment places had to close, gyms, gyms and gyms, and for a long time I could tell you what places they were unfortunately forced to close due to government restrictions. Businesses, thus putting jobs in jeopardy, have unfortunately ceased to exist in the last few days from one day to the next, and tens of thousands of families have been in a difficult financial situation. [[17.00]] However, there are surprisingly places in the country for which these restrictions are limited, and they are nothing more than casinos for fidesz backup people. Because these casinos are equally open, and obviously they're only open until 7:00 p.m., but they can accommodate the guests. Of course, you say that you don't qualify as a club, but I'd like to ask you how much safer a casino is from an epidemiological point of view than a closed restaurant. Make no mistake, we do not want even one person to lose their jobs in Hungary, which is why the EPP Jobbik has been saying for a very long time that 80 percent of lost wages in every sector in danger must be taken over by the state. But the question arises, after all, in places where even the online cash register may only be known from the news, what is the difference between such a place, a casino and a catering unit that had to close. Why do they make such a difference between two places like this? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2020-11-16-184	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-11-16-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you don't mind, I'd like to start with a question. Have you given up scratcher tickets lately? Because otherwise, you can give up. Have you given up a tot lately? Because otherwise, you can give up. Have you given up lottery numbers of five or six lately? Because otherwise, you can give up. Have you given up any tips lately? Because, by the way, there are international sports competitions in Hungary and other countries, on which you can bet otherwise. It's the same kind of gambling. And I'm asking you, can the totalists and lotteries be open for the same amount of time, seven hours as the gambling casinos? They must be open. Now tell me, how do you distinguish between gambling and gambling? Which one do you think is applicable, open, and can be given up, and which one can't be? Based on property, perhaps? That in one case the State is the owner, while in the other case not the State, but private or private companies are the owners? I don't think that's the right approach. I think that if such a decision has been made in an emergency, which the Ministry of Finance does not, by the way, make, that gambling can be played, then let us not make a difference between that it is a scratchy lottery ticket and organised by the state, or perhaps a game casino, which, in addition to compliance with the rules, thinks of opening hours, and works in the same way as the tournament, lotteries or the premises where such gambling can otherwise be given up, but it is not considered a toy casino, because they can also open and receive tournament operators. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-186	You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2020-11-16-187	Thank you for the floor. I think putting the totózó and the casino under the same roof is a very stupid thing to do, Mr. Secretary of State. In the beginning, the lotteries have online cash registers, and I don't know if that's what you like to know about your position, but I may have helped you with that a little bit more enlightened. You didn't answer my question, by the way, as to why these places are being distinguished from an epidemiological point of view. So why isn't a casino more dangerous or safe than a restaurant? The emphasis here is on the fact that you have made businesses impossible, but you are not helping them, even though you are saying that we are giving so much wage support, only in reality, because of the many loopholes, it is not possible, and people are finally in need of substantial help. So I would very much ask you to answer that question, when you can give equal treatment to businesses in Hungary and when you want to help them at last in substance so that people do not starve to death. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-11-16-188	Thank you, Congressman Nunkovich. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2020-11-16-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true that we do not help businesses, small businesses. Catalogs didn't have to pay contributions, they didn't have to pay contributions to their employees right now, they got 80 percent of their revenues, which were booked, and I could list these measures for more than a minute, which, of course, you don't look at anything, and you don't acknowledge. But I'll give you an example of what a double standard is today, because that was the title of your immediate question. You know what the double standard is? What you did today. I'll tell you what they did today. There were two votes on immunity. One is a conversational lady, who is left-wing, she is an ally. How did Jobbik vote? [[An intervention from Jobbik, a pedophile...]] He's not giving it up. It's the same private slander case. How did you vote for the pro-government, György Simonka? And he published that. And you did this! [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Now, that's the double standard, sir, not what we do with gambling. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How many more people have to die? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-16-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, It may be surprising why I ask the Minister of the Interior a question in health [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] But what we see is that health care is already controlled by three wallets: the innovation wallet, health care or EMMI, and the Minister of the Interior itself. And many times I have to add that the Minister of the Interior has more expertise than all the others. Today, too, it has been said several times that the Hungarian health care system will be able to withstand the load from the government side, and the number of hospital beds can be constantly increased. We've heard a lot of data today, but there's one thing the government doesn't talk about when it talks about the number of hospital beds: will you be a health worker? Would you care for intensive beds that require a ventilator, proper staff? Will you be a nurse, will you be a specialist who can operate these beds? They keep talking about how many tens of thousands of people can expand the capacity, but they don't talk about just the beds, that they'll have the right staff. I don't know how you looked at the data from the last few months. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in mid-October, the number of infected people was 475-1223 per day, then in early November 2763-3113, today the number of new infected people rose to 6400. You keep communicating that you're following Austria. Dear Secretary of State, Not two weeks, not a month. We need to watch immediately what is happening: 699 people have died in Austria in the last two weeks, 1248 in Hungary. In Austria, 612 people are in intensive care, 582 in Hungary. How many more people have to die to tell the truth, what's going on in Hungary, what's going on? Mr. Secretary, I have one question: will there be a sufficient number of health workers next to the beds? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-11-16-192	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2020-11-16-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Health is a sector supervised by the Minister of Human Resources in the Hungarian Government, and I think that the Minister is doing his job at an extremely high level and very well, and it is perfectly natural that the tasks of health care are in the Ministry of Human Resources. The Ministry of the Interior does not, of course, make health decisions on medical matters and operational management, nor can it, since professional competence is not there. The fact that the leadership of the operational tribe is jointly led by the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Human Resources, to whom the health care belongs, I think it is a perfectly natural thing, because on the health, medicine and medicine side, Minister Kásler can provide all the essential elements, and it is the responsibility of the Minister of Interior to participate in the organisation, operational assembly, planning and planning of tasks. [[17.10]] This double works very well against your claim or your claim. The Hungarian epidemiological preparedness is adequate, and we can see this in European comparison or even in comparison with the world figures. The country's goal was to prepare the country for the second wave. Of course, a lot of people have doubted that there will be a second wave at all, and to what extent this second wave will be. Today, it seems that the required number of beds, the necessary intensive beds are available, the hospital staff are doing their best to provide these beds with adequate service and necessary staff. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-11-16-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Miklós Kásler said two days ago that the current epidemic situation is so much different that state measures are adapted to the virus, that the infection was not as well controlled as it was in spring. Miklós Kásler himself is now criticizing the government's ability to prepare for the second wave of the plague. Mr. Secretary, will the beds be accompanied by a sufficient number of health workers? You don't talk about it. They don't even talk about how many people in intensive care have been infected with coronal viruses, how many of them have already fallen out of health care. They also do not talk about the fact that patients are not being treated for all the other diseases, that they do not seek medical help in vain. He said to Bence of Retvári that we should call the GP. Well, they don't answer the phone for about a day or two days or three days because the system is so busy! Well, tell me, Mr. Secretary, who do we have to turn to with all the other diseases? I'm going to ask you one more time, Mr. Secretary. There's a good number of beds, everyone knows that. Will there be a sufficient number of health workers? That's the only question I've asked, and I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-16-196	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás!
u2020-11-16-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you had listened, you might have noticed that we are in the middle of a pandemic, and the government is working to combat this pandemic, but the government is not the main concern here, but health care, health care, doctors and nurses. The question is, how many health workers are there? I think it has been said today, and you can also look into it: today there are seven thousand more doctors working than during your administration, so although we have not been preparing for an epidemic for ten years in order to strengthen health care we have taken very, very serious steps, both in terms of personnel and the built environment. I'm sure the medical staff, the doctors, the nurses will continue to do their best to treat patients. And the fact that patients, other patients, non-Covid patients, are not getting treatment is the same lie as you have been doing constantly and systematically in the last few months, when you are simply denying the facts, trying to support the virus by putting lying videos, lying people in the center, trying to fight people, trying to fight health care workers. That's what you'd be doing, that's what you'd be doing. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] To do something for the people, not for their short-term political interests.
u2020-11-16-198	Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Within the framework of the agenda, the final immediate question follows. Mr. László Varju, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. The opportunity is yours, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister of State, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people are waiting for the Orbán government to finally understand that it is criminally irresponsible to abandon those in distress in the event of an economic crisis. Almost nine months were not enough to see that a lot of people were losing their jobs, and tens of thousands of Hungarian families would be poorer, more hopeless and vulnerable. Consider a specific example. An iron company has been struggling to survive for months with ten people, with a turnover of some HUF 200-300 million each year. But why? Secretary of State, you could smell metal cutting and see the sparks of cutting discs, but you can't feel it and you can't see it, because there's no order in this company, there's no internal market. Secretary of State, there are 600 thousand other businesses in the same situation outside the fraternity, and you know it, because they have a duty to report to you. You know that your income has fallen to a very low level, you know how many employees you've been able to keep, or what you're struggling to do to keep it, and you're not helping those in trouble. Public administration panic has extracted the replacement product that has now been released by the National Employment Service under the title of sectoral wage support. But Viktor Orbán, I see that he does not allow more than 50 percent, because if I quote from the notice, the Prime Minister wants to support sports and leisure training, museum activities and amusement park entertainment in this wage support. Why don't you support jobs? Why don't you save the workers from destroying hundreds of thousands of families? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2020-11-16-202	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-11-16-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that I have visited 25-30 companies in the seventh constituency of Borsod County in the last six months and have asked about their economic situation. So don't accuse me of not knowing what might happen to these companies in South Borsod. I'll tell you what happened. What really happened was that the economy was at a low point in April-May, and orders were at a low point, and everyone was looking for a way out, and they wanted to avoid having to send people away for good, put them in a hopeless position; otherwise, their own company, too, because if people were sent and the order came back after a few months, then there was no labour force and they couldn't produce the value they ordered from them. Among these doubts was a significant part of the companies. Most of them welcomed the government's measure after the State provided part-time support. Several companies have also welcomed their support for investments, more easily than before the crisis and a larger amount. The European Union is also contributing to this. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] I think that what you are saying is wrong is that the Hungarian government has been misthinking and has not helped people, because by helping companies to make investments or by supporting people with wages, it has certainly followed the process of thinking that it should be, keeping the job in a difficult time and in a critical time. I believe that the second quarter figures clearly demonstrate that this kind of economic policy thinking of the government has been successful. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-205	Thank you very much. Just as I am happy to give you new examples of what you are saying that you were at a low point, Mr. Secretary of State, I must say that you are there because you left them there. These businesses are at a low point because they have no internal market, no order, and that applies to carpentry, locksmiths and all the others, not just those you want to help. I therefore continue to recommend that the proposals of the Democratic Coalition be adopted. Regardless of the twenty points or this recommendation on which wage contributions should be facilitated, substantial wage support should be provided, and, moreover, workers who have already lost their jobs need an extension of the job search allowance. If you want to talk not only about a few thousand companies, but about the tens of thousands of businesses that are struggling today, if you want to help them, then take a meaningful step! Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.20]]
u2020-11-16-206	You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-16-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The increase in the amount and payment period of the unemployment allowance is an eternal dispute. I think we have already given a clear answer that our thinking is not in this direction, but that people should keep their jobs, and if they have failed, they should try to find work on the labour market as soon as possible. Work. As far as employment figures are concerned, according to September employment statistics, the number of employees decreased by 35 500 compared to the previous year. It is regrettable that this has happened because it has decreased, but it is not as much a reduction as it may be concluded from your voice. There is a job to be done, jobs to be preserved, support to continue, new jobs to be created. The government is on this path right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. Discussions are now taking place between the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the next two speakers should, as far as possible, be present in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, It follows from the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the 2007 CVI on State-owned assets. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/13260. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-11-16-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the free ownership of certain state-owned assets and the 2007 CVI on State assets. T/13260. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 26 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, With regard to the properties in the proposed legislation before us, they will be handed over free of charge on the basis of the application of the Foundation of the National School of Arts in the Carpathian Basin and the Egri County and the need for other public tasks. Accordingly, on the basis of the proposal, on the one hand, property and movable property which is state-owned but no longer necessary for the performance of other public tasks to be carried out by the State in order to support the assumed State's task will be transferred to the Egri Diocese, subject to the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Law and Act CVI of 2007 on State Property. Act on the rules governing the free transfer of state assets. With regard to the property and movable property contained in the bill, the free transfer shall be made on the basis of the application of the Egri Diocese. The public ownership of the property contained in the proposal is not necessary for the performance of other public tasks to be performed by the State, for the provision of funding resources for public tasks or for the performance of the budget revenue allocation, and can therefore be transferred to the beneficiary. The Law on State Property requires that ownership rights be recorded as an obligation on the national property, on the change in the value of the property and on the value of the property. The fulfilment of this obligation can only be achieved by providing an adequate IT background, the legal background and basis of which are also included in the proposal before us. However, the proposal does not only create the necessary legal conditions for the management of a single State property register, but also the operation of the new public surface of the reporting framework and the national inventory. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the reasons given, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-210	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] At the end. Thank you very much, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will appear on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-16-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fellow Members! Today I'm going to talk about stealing the state. It is precisely about how public wealth is lost and acquired by private companies, behind which the dark shades of NER mercenaries rise. You have undoubtedly made theft, corruption, systemic. One of your ideologists made that very clear. The point is, they're not just stealing something, they're creating a legal framework for it. This is also the case in the regulation of state property. It is no coincidence that the bill before us has been the subject of a lively debate before the Economic Committee. We also had questions about the registration of state assets and related functions, but they are not as serious as those about the free transfer of state-owned properties. If you look at the last few years, the number of public properties that have been given private ownership for different reasons is already over 100. We also asked the committee, and we still don't understand: why is the state doing away with property? Why do properties held in public property suddenly have to be privately owned? These proposals raise serious doubts as to whether the government will conduct these transactions with due diligence and legal personality. Or let's put it less politely: who are you stealing the public wealth for? It is enough to think of the final vote on real estate to trust foundations. At that time, the text submitted to Parliament contained only two properties in Pécs, and then the pro-government majority of the Legislative Committee suddenly supplemented the list with eight properties in Révfülöp, including a sailing port, a Szombathely, a Zalaegerszeg and a Szekszárd property. It is strange that the government sent Balázs Orbán, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, to the Commission's debate on the amendments, who is also the chairman of the Board of Board of the Foundation for the Mathias Corvinus College. In other words, he is the authority of the State to transfer the property free of charge, while on the other hand he is the authority to take over the property. The Secretary of State has arranged this conflict of interest only by saying that I have two hats. And I'm telling you, in a normal country, you could buy both your hats after a case like this, because you should leave, but it looks like this situation in Orbanistan is completely accepted. I also find it amazing that, according to the Secretary of State, free transfer of state property is good because state property is in a much better place in private hands than in public hands. [[17 .30]] I wonder what the Minister for National Property thinks of her work as such in the government. These are all circumstances which, in the least possible terms, urge caution as to the good faith of the government and the transparency of the transactions in question. Unfortunately, it is also clear to us that the government's generous real estate transfers do not by chance affect a circle: local governments. However, local authorities do most of the public tasks, and in increasingly difficult circumstances. This year the car tax was deducted from them, many have to pay solidarity contributions, while their business tax revenue has fallen greatly. They don't get real estate. On the other hand, for example, they wish to provide the Foundation of the Carpathian Basin Arts Folk College with a pioneering camp in Venice and a rented cultural house in Székesfehérvár, and the justification only states that the transfer of real estate will help the Foundation to fulfil its educational, educational and higher education tasks more effectively, but it is no longer known how and why these properties can increase efficiency. We believe that the property of the Hungarian State is a public property which should not be distributed on the basis of party politics, because it is, in fact, the looting of common property. Therefore, the MSZP fraction says no to this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-16-212	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Congressman David Hey, Fidesz.
u2020-11-16-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The congresswoman, if I heard correctly, said that public property would be owned by private companies and that she would like to respond to that. The Egri Archdiocese has applied for it and will be owned by the Egri Archdiocese at the request of the Egri Archdiocese. I think that it is absolutely necessary to record that there is no mention of what the Member said. The congresswoman may have been talking about another law, but at the moment we are debating the request of the Egri Archdiocese and the transfer of property to the Egri Archdiocese. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-214	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2020-11-16-215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond to the comment in the prerogative, speaking to Jenő Heltai: "You could have said it nicely, little knight." This bill is not about what the congresswoman has whipped, but otherwise I respect your opinion. I would just like to reiterate, in the course of the presentation, that, if the municipality requests the property free of charge under the conditions laid down by law, the municipalities have always received and receive the property free of charge, regardless of the party position. Dear House, In order to clarify our subject here, let me repeat that the bill we are discussing now aims at the free transfer of state-owned property to the Egri County and the Carpathian Basin National School of Arts Foundation, in order to facilitate the performance of their public education, education and cultural tasks. The bill also increases the effectiveness of the public service mission by providing other provisions, and aims to strengthen the effective management of assets by clarifying the rules applied by the owners' rights practitioners. With the development of the national inventory, we would like to make a clear conclusion and record what belongs to the inventory of assets and to the national inventory, which will provide up-to-date information on the development of state assets. During the parliamentary hearing of the bill, substantial amendments were proposed to supplement or amend the empowering provisions of the bill. The parts of the IT subject matter included in the empowering provision have been removed, taking into account that the IT system and IT security rules are governed by Act L of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies. In Parliament's decision-making, in addition to the substantive amendments mentioned above, the Commission's amendments made codification and language-rightness clarifications, promoting clarity and compliance with the requirements for legislative drafting. Thank you for the supporting professional work of the committees, which contributed to the final drafting of the bill. I therefore ask the House with all due respect to support the bill that has been tabled. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-216	Thank you, Secretary Major. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of registers and electronic administration and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/13262. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-11-16-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13262. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, with 2 negative votes and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to review and renew IT systems and electronic registers of high importance for the electronicisation of administrative procedures, such as the IT system for personal data and address records, the IT system for road transport and related registers, and the IT systems for document registers enabling identification. The renewal of the registers in these three large groups will not only result in the acceleration of the background processes, but will also clearly lead to changes that are felt by Hungarian citizens. Dear House, The draft submitted envisages a partial renewal of identity cards. This amendment is essential from a legal harmonisation point of view, given that the European Union has introduced uniform rules governing the content and form of documents issued by Member States for all EU citizens, with the entry into force of August 2021. The proposal aims to introduce a so-called log system, the essence of which is that, in order to verify the legality of processing operations carried out by electronic means with personal data and to guarantee the integrity and security of personal data, the body managing the register will record information related to the processing operation carried out in the register in an automated data management system. Ladies and gentlemen, Developing administrative terminals is a forward-looking idea for the spread of electronic administration and the use of IT tools, as kiosk constitutes a transition between personal administration and electronic administration. For efficiency and quality-enhancing purposes, KSH would in the future receive some of the citizens' registered contact details for the reason that they are not disturbed by either mail or personal visits or by interviewing commissioners in cases where data collection by personal search becomes simply impossible. Here, for example, it is enough to think about the current pandemic situation. [[17.40]] Dear Parliament, The draft provides for the possibility for customers with a customer gate to log directly into the service provider's system, to be able to carry out their data in accordance with the standards of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, electronically controlled. This reduces the burden on both the public and the service providers involved in personal appearance. Dear House, The proposal submitted should be supported as it provides for significant facilitations for the administration of the administrative matters of citizens, and it should also be underlined that cooperation between public authorities can also be more effective with the adoption of the draft. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-218	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who is here on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to express his thoughts now or later.
u2020-11-16-219	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to summarise at the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Antal Paulik, a Slovak nationalist advocate, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have a six-minute time frame.
u2020-11-16-221	-akujem za slovo pán predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážené národné zhromaždenie! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností v Ma.arsku k návrhu zákona číslo T/13262. o modifikácii niektorých zákonov v súvislosti s szuradnými registrami a elektronickou správou, vytvorenom na zasadnutí výboru 28. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to inform you of the T/13262 of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. on the position of the Committee at its meeting on 28 October on the proposal to amend certain laws in relation to registers and electronic administration. The Committee's position is set out in Article 36 of the House Rule. § 5 of the Act. As I mentioned in the speech to the general debate, the amendments proposed in the proposal largely do not directly affect the rights of nationality in their content, but, given the ethnic sensitivity of the register of personal data, the Committee on Nationalities of Hungary has reviewed the amendments in substance. Most of the proposals put forward in today's world concern the inevitable operation of electronic registers and the possibilities and processes of electronic administration. The existence of electronic registers, the visible data displayed on the personal documents and the allocation of electronically recorded data which are not directly visible on them provide a wider opportunity for the civil servants of the nationality to issue national identity documents for this purpose. In our opinion, with the current package of amendments, we can draw closer to the ideal situation in which Hungarian citizens of nationality may have personal documents issued in their mother tongue, in accordance with the rules of their mother tongue, in respect of all documents proving their identity. In this context, it is also important to mention that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. According to law, citizens belonging to nationalities in Hungary have the right to have their family and first name in the registers according to the rules of their nationality language or in their ethnic language and Hungarian. On the basis of the data contained in the register, only the identity card can display the name of a citizen belonging to a nationality in addition to the Hungarian version in the language of the nationality concerned. However, the current practice does not allow the use of names in the language of nationality to appear in the driver's licenses or in the passports. Since the package of laws before us does not affect the data content of individual identification documents, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided to draw up a separate amendment proposal on the registration of citizens' personal data and address in 1992. law, in order to ensure that the right to use a name as defined in the national minority law is fully implemented in domestic practice. However, since the preparation of this requires a broad consultation with the competent heads of the Ministry of the Interior and the prime minister's secretariat supervising the area of nationality, we intend to draw up and submit our proposals to Parliament next year. In addition to the above, I would like to mention that our committee welcomes the initiative of the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate and the summarised amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, which brings the provisions of the Parliament Act into line with the now changing provisions of the Act on the Registration of Personal Data and Address of Citizens. According to this proposal, the registration law is 19/G. In addition to the Members of Parliament and former Members of Parliament, the treatment of the data of ethnic advocates and ex-national advocates was included in the list. Dear House, The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as I indicated in my speech in the general debate, supports the adoption of the package of laws under discussion only in the light of ethnicity considerations. .akujem Vám za posornosť. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-222	Thank you very much for the voice of Antal Paulik. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyure.
u2020-11-16-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The first part of the bill was mainly due to compliance with EU standards, which is not a problem. For example, we agree that amendments are necessary with regard to IDs, although we can also note that Hungarian IDs have long been considered to be one of the most modern IDs in the European Union, but we must acknowledge that we must follow these changes that the EU requires in this regard. I would also like to refer to the good things here, so it is obviously important that the most important issue in the reporting and data collection of the HCSO will be electronic data collection, and that there will still be an opportunity for communication, especially in view of today's epidemiological situation. Similarly, setting up electronic contact points, the operation of these terminals, is a positive thing, which will probably make administration easier. The central register of car liability insurance will also be important, and drivers do not need to keep the certificate, this is also a positive foresight, and I think that it is absolutely necessary to agree with them. However, what raises doubts here, in this bill, is that there will be a great deal of data in the hands of the government, which the government and its extended organs, the executive power, can deal with continuously, and obviously even if the Secretary of State said in his expo when he presented the original proposal that it was in consultation with the commissioner for data protection, and that they can provide adequate guarantees for this, on the part of the opposition, we, the Jobbik Hungary Movement, do not yet see these guarantees as appropriate. Despite the fact that there are many positive things that have been introduced in the electronic register, I would also like to highlight what is working very well today, because let us talk about the fact that there are good things, for example, the creation of a customer gate system, which I think works very well on a national level, and a very positive example is the introduction of a personal income tax return, which has also passed a good test. However, we also need to see that there are some things that have not tested well in the field of electronics in Hungary, and that is why it is doubtful for citizens, and even often they feel that these electronic innovations make their living conditions and their situation more difficult. This is obviously a very short transition condition, because sooner or later these problems will be eliminated and they will work. However, because of data protection problems or our doubts, we cannot support this draft law or vote 'no', because, as I said, there are a number of positive things in it, so we will refrain from doing so. I would like to draw attention to one more thing in this regard, since the committee had to submit a summary amendment on this matter. [[17.50]] Having read this through, this amendment has succeeded for quite a long time, and this is because, and let us not leave it unspoken, because the government codification work in this regard can often be considered a sloppy one. There were a lot of spelling errors, grammar errors, or editing errors in the original bill, which will be corrected by this summary amendment that is being discussed. These should be better monitored in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-224	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-16-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. As I recall, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner was here in the debate when we discussed this law here last night. It has been a long time, and everyone has said the positive things that my fellow Member has already listed here in the debate that had to be done, because the European Union has to comply, and what has already happened in the past. We did not argue that they should be supported on our part, but there is one point that I have also said in the debate, which is why we will be able to vote only with abstentions tomorrow. In the debate on the draft law on the control of foreign investments affecting Hungary's security interests, which was adopted in December 2018. CHAPTER VI Dr. Zsolt Semjén submitted to Parliament on 19 October, and VI. The Parliament discussed the T/628 Act on 28 October, and the lead speaker of the MSZP, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, then expressed very serious concerns. This proposal does not substantially address any of these concerns. We said this several times, and I spoke as a lead speaker when we discussed this amendment in Parliament. This amendment still does not address these problems. That is why I point out that, although there is a lot of positive progress in this law, we can only vote on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party by abstaining. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-226	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask... or I will not ask, I see that you are preparing to speak in response to what has been said in this debate, Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary.
u2020-11-16-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Csaba Gyüre's comment. We have also met in the general debate, and I note only here that I represented the Government, and I think that, too, Mrs Congresswoman, I refer to it, by a law she said her contribution earlier. That's what happens to other people in life, because maybe he wanted to comment on the next law, I think. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély shaking his head: No...]] But that's for him to decide. With regard to Mr Csaba Gyüre's comment, I reject his serious comment on the codification work on behalf of our colleagues. I think they are always trying to make sure that we are able to submit the best possible legislative proposals here in this House. And let me have one more thought about what Congressman Csaba Gyüre has said. If you consider several points of this bill to be so critical, then it would have been appropriate, and I encouraged it, and I also asked you to submit an amendment, but I also note here that no amendments have been tabled by its representatives. Member, if you had exercised that right, perhaps you could have improved the points that you consider critical. I'd like to refer to two things. On the one hand, it was agreed that the wider provision of digitalisation and electronic services will make administration easier, and this will certainly make the lives of citizens easier for the legislator. I think this proposal will comply. Moreover, in the current situation, the transition to electronic administration and the reduction of the number of personal contact cases are particularly important. This is supported by the development of administrative terminals, so-called kiosks. I thought it was important to emphasize that here too. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill with their vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-228	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/13257. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-11-16-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 12 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2016 CXXX on Civil Procedure. T/13257 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 33 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The experience of the two-year application of civil procedure, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the feedback of the law enforcement bodies justify reviewing, clarifying and simplifying certain provisions of the law and making the rules of the law more flexible. The main objective of the bill on the House's table is to facilitate the exercise of the right of access to the courts by law-seeking citizens and organisations. It can be seen from the norm that we are dealing with a kind of fine-tuning of the jurisdictional regulation, which is trying to slightly increase the scope of the lawsuits that fall within the jurisdiction of the court, regardless of the value of the subject matter. In this way, the distribution of district court and judicial matters will be more optimal. We should also mention the intentions of the amendments aimed at simplifying the start of proceedings. Under the proposal, the number of content elements of the application is reduced and the requirements for each element are simplified. It is sufficient to indicate in the application the name of the defendant and his place of residence or place of business; the absence of any other identification information does not result in rejection of the application. The formal criteria of the application will also be significantly reduced as the addresses of each department as well as the presentation of the contents within each structural unit are not in order or subject to any other formality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the amendments to legal proceedings aimed at improving the protection of the interests of underage children. One of the tools for this is that judges have received stronger driving licences in legal proceedings involving minors, which will ensure the sustainability of the lawsuit for the benefit of a minor child. In view of the fact that the court has the possibility to provide ex officio evidence in the status proceedings, it is therefore appropriate to exclude private expert evidence in such cases. In this way, it will be avoided that the minor child involved in the trial will be examined by up to three experts, which is obviously burdensome for a child. Dear Parliament, There could also be a lot of additional rules on the draft law, for example, ideas that make the rules of the litigation more flexible, reducing the administrative burden on the parties, or amendments that facilitate the enforcement of the parties during the second-degree procedure, but I am convinced that we have been able to find out more in the past. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2020-11-16-230	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Secretary of State, Pál Völner, who is here on behalf of the authors, now or later... [[For signal:]] He indicates that he will wish to speak later if he needs to. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches by the Members are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, which we are about to see on the display. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state in advance that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this amendment to the civil procedure. Obviously, the unanimous vote in the committees was also because we, as opposition parties, contributed and supported it. We will continue to support the amendment of the civil procedure, if it is a forward-looking one. Why do we support him? Because, in our opinion, the amendment of the civil order has been technically inadequate, and the new civil order Pp. has been insufficiently qualified. In this regard, I consider it primarily the fault of the Ministry of Justice, and I blame it on the head of that time as a mistake, and I think that a professional vanity has led to the adoption of a relatively bad civil order at the time of the Minister of Justice of Trocsány. A codification committee worked for three years, which prepared the new civil order, they submitted the material to the Ministry, but finally, what was submitted to Parliament, as they put it, was not in a thank-you relationship with the codification committee, and they distanced themselves from it. János Németh, who led this codification committee, was also removed from the new civil order in public. On the other hand, Minister Trocsányi said that they could easily solve this problem, because I am literally trying to quote the Ministry of Justice's pure-profile legal department, the development of civil order and the management of codification itself. So, obviously, he took it upon himself. Well, I think it's a failure. There have been a lot of criticisms about the new Pp. over the past year or two. For example: speeding up procedures disproportionately reduces the possibility of effective legal protection; the enforcement framework tightens; real justice becomes impossible; the number of rejected cases has increased by leaps; the form that has been introduced has been disastrous, and the population has practically not been able to complete it at all. Then the lawyers were very concerned that the lawsuit had practically ceased in the new Pp. and thus the possibility of finding out the truth was also significantly limited, since they could not use any of the pertactical elements that could really have moved the matter forward. It must be seen that this amendment is trying to improve, absolve and improve, so in any case I think it will make that Pp better, but it still does not correct the current civil order. Obviously, later on we will find out what further problems will come out, since at the initial stage, where we are now Pp. in its application, it is primarily a trial that has reached the stage of cases, and there is already a concept of bringing an action, of a trial, of the parties who apply the law, but still the new Pp. According to him, few cases ran through. Later on, we will find out what problems will arise with regard to the second stage of the hearing and appeal proceedings. I'm already plotting that we're gonna have to touch this civil order in a lot of places. It should also be noted that there are also minor steps backwards in the current proposal, as it is the new Pp. Its change restores the old, or in a form that was only at the time of socialism, or was a legacy, it also brings this back. With regard to education, it will bring back the legislation of 20-30 years ago on the obligation of lawyers to lecture, which may not be useful to everyone. But this legislative amendment, which is now before us, is fundamentally positive, and we therefore support this. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-232	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I would like to ask that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[This is Dr. Sándor Fazekas.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: I would like an opportunity to speak.]] I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, as a debate closing.
u2020-11-16-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank all those who, before the vote, assured the rapporteur that this proposal was acceptable. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, and I have already discussed these points in the debate. In practice, during the period of introduction of a new code, there may be changes to which, if the legislator responds correctly, an amendment will follow the publication of the code by a year and a half. It can also be seen that the intention that was first in the submission of the law was to reduce the lengthened lawsuits, which was the goal. The other issue is that either because of legislation or the strict application of the law, the difficulties that led to the amendment have actually occurred. But I think it's always our job to react flexibly to the situation, and that's why we can count on it to be unanimous in supporting the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-234	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports for the presentation of family farms and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13261. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-11-16-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13261. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 31 votes in favour, not votes in favour and with no abstentions, it was unanimously adopted. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is an extremely important reform package, fundamentally transforming the legal environment for primary producers and family farms, with the benefit of all stakeholders. The administrative and tax burden on farmers is reduced to such an extent that it can bring back its popularity similar to that experienced in the late 1990s. The main objective of the new regulation is to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized family farms and agricultural enterprises. To this end, the proposal practically redefines and strengthens the categories of farmers and family farmers. The range of activities to be carried out by ancient producers will be expanded. Next year, the primary producers do not have to make tax returns in the course of an annual income of nearly HUF 1 million, they can be flat-rate taxpayers up to HUF 10 million per year and flat-rate taxpayers up to HUF 20 million per year. The limit values for tax incentives are linked to the minimum wage at all times, so that they can become even more favourable in time. By merging the current Common Ancient Farmer and Family Farm categories, an operational category is created, where significant tax incentives will also be available. At best, they can opt for flat-rate taxation after annual income not exceeding 40 times the annual minimum wage. This is currently more than HUF 77 million. [[18.10]] It is important that the amount of normative aid does not constitute a tax base in either case. In addition, a rating category is set up for cooperatives and companies. This is the certificate of the family agricultural company, which provides tax incentives in the case of land rental or purchase or development investments. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill for small and medium-sized players in Hungarian agriculture, which greatly improves the situation of Hungarian producers, must be supported, as it is fully economical. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-16-236	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, who is here on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] He said he'd like to speak later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Agriculture did not draft a rapporteur, and now it is up to its representatives to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2020-11-16-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For LMP, the situation of small and medium-sized producers and family farmers is of particular importance. A crisis-resistant agriculture, which can meet environmental challenges, must be built on small and medium-sized farmers. The agricultural sector is also a priority sector in terms of national security, so we need a management system that ensures Hungary's food self-determination across generations. This requires a diverse, high added value agriculture that meets the criteria of agroecology, which is highly resilient and capable of renewal. The LMP fully supports the objectives set out in the law. Our comments and amendments in the general debate are intended to improve, with the aim of ensuring that the adoption of the law is fully in the interests of small producers and family farmers. We are very pleased that several of the amendments tabled have been accepted in the Commission's debates. In the Legislative Committee, we have adopted a number of, among other things, our most important proposal not to exclude small-scale food production and the processing of produce produced in our own economy. At the same time, our aim remains to ensure that the law fully serves the objectives set, and we have therefore asked for three amendments to be maintained. I trust the wisdom of my fellow Members, and I hope that these amendments will be supported. I would like to briefly explain our arguments. Our amendment No 3 serves to ensure that additional activities can be carried out in a larger proportion, up to half of the total revenue, in the framework of the pre-production activity. We consider this key so that younger generations can successfully become part of family farms. This could be the doorway for young people to find their way into the family economy and eventually take over the entire economy. Allow me to quote Minister István Nagy's words at the Commission's hearing: "The question of rural survival is infinitely important. It is important that our land is cultivated. It is important that our sons and daughters want to stay in the family economy and continue to pursue economic activity. Yes, we agree with Minister, but the possibility must also be given. That is why we ask you to support our amending proposal, which would open the door for our sons and daughters to remain locally and participate, building on the existing economy, even by adding additional activities. Our amendment, i.e. the second, would create the opportunity to sell pre-producer products through an agent. As we have stated in our reasoning, the most important goal is that this would give rise to a legitimate opportunity for ancient producers to cooperate in selling. President Sándor Font said in the Commission's debate that the farmers have already managed to quote: "One of them will sell under his own name the product that the other farmer gave, and then they will distribute the money among themselves nicely. The quote is complete. Our proposal would give you the opportunity to do so in an orderly legal framework. This would serve precisely the traceability of products, food chain security. The purpose of the Parliament must be to direct the primary producers, family farms, not on the grey roads, but to assist their cooperation with a supportive legal environment. Existing abuses should be screened by food chain surveillance. The objective of our third reserved proposal is to reduce the administrative burden and push the obligation to set a tax advance up to the amount of the flat-rate tax threshold. The amendment has no substantial impact on the revenues of the central budget, but it is a significant relief for primary producers who opt for flat-rate taxation. From an administrative point of view, this is the only imperfection that should be dealt with in order to ensure that Ancient producers really have to comply with simpler accounting obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, We hope that you will all see that these amendments are constructive, well thought out from the point of view of the objective, and that they will therefore support their adoption in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for taking in more of our amending proposals.
u2020-11-16-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. The next speaker is Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP.
u2020-11-16-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We also said in the debate that we talked about a particularly good bill, of course we will support this bill on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party tomorrow. I also said in the debate that if this whole epidemic situation was to end, it would be worth taking more time from Members to find a way to solve what my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, has just said; how to improve the preservation of the countryside, how to attract young Hungarians to live in the countryside, to keep the way they live in the countryside, but I say, after the epidemic situation, and of course we will support this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-240	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz.
u2020-11-16-241	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the attitude that this legislation has been adopted by the Parliament, and I would like to thank them for the constructive approach that has been put forward to the bill in a very positive way. I think that this is certainly exemplary, and I think that in such a tense political environment as our daily life, this is a refreshing stain on the functioning of Parliament in terms of political cooperation. I'd like to thank the Legislative Committee for the work they've done. By number, 68 amendments were submitted to the original material, a large part of which is of a technical nature. However, there are some measures that are truly worthwhile and that improve thank God, even the preferential environment so far. In particular, I would also like to thank fellow opposition Members for the constructive cooperation they have shown throughout this proposal. With regard to these amendments, which have come from the TAB, allow me to highlight one, and I will share some thoughts about this with you. With regard to the preparation of the legislation, the original intention and the declared aim were to ensure a legal environment that would not cause any more disadvantage than it could operate in the current legislation. Here, however, there was indeed a situation that needed to be addressed with regard to the Small Farmers' Regulation, but this is done by the material submitted by the Legislative Committee. [[18.20]] For up to the value laid down in the Small Producer's Regulation, the processing of the own produced product will not count into the range of additional activities, so we believe that those who are now operating under the Small Producer's Regulation will not be put at a more disadvantage than they are now doing their job. This is particularly welcome, and I think that a very positive change in relation to the presentation is also a very positive change. I very much hope that this disharmony was the only thing that has not been dealt with in the proposal, but so we hope that we can serve all the social layers within the agricultural society properly. Agreeing that this legislation will indeed bring about a very important change in the life of the Hungarian countryside, I believe that the Hungarian countryside can be successful if there are well-functioning businesses in the Hungarian countryside, because in terms of agriculture, the generational change is a very many-spoken issue. I believe that we can make the Hungarian countryside, Hungarian agricultural farming, attractive for future generations if there can be a truly attractive alternative to a method of earning income elsewhere, and there is much we can do with this legislative amendment. So I would like to express my hope that perhaps tomorrow, even with a unanimous vote, we can send a message to the Hungarian countryside that the Hungarian Parliament really thinks it is important for the people of the countryside to prosper. So I would like to ask you all with respect from this place to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Balázs Győrffy. I would like to point out to Mr Balczó that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment, but he still has a nine-minute opportunity to make a next comment. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, Fidesz.
u2020-11-16-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I welcome the fact that this debate took place in a positive spirit, and this continued during the debate on the agenda of the bill. It is certainly useful that the other proposals have been summarised, and the draft drawn up, I believe, will help family farmers, farmers, farmers, to produce as efficiently as possible, to cope as effectively as possible in the changed market conditions, and that the continuity of family farms and the generation change should take place where necessary. The time has now come for this regulation, because it had to be strengthened by the country, the farming community, the agricultural policy, in order to have such and similar advantages in different areas, not only in the case of farmers and family farmers, but also elsewhere. The fact that in recent years there has been a clear picture for ancient producers that regulations have allowed actual producers to be the most in this circle, or that the number of small producers has doubled over a decade, and that their products have also gained rank, I believe that it is a good basis for the future, and a good background for the adoption of this legislation. It's going to be a real help in development. I am convinced, and I trust that a unanimous decision will be taken here in the House in a few hours. It may even be desirable that such legislation represents the recognition of the work of farmers, the work of farmers and family farmers, since under the most difficult conditions they have been able to sustain, produce, compete on the market with imported products, products from larger farms, products from larger processors, and even renewal can be seen through quality Hungarian foods and Hungaricums. I trust that this law will also help the countryside to grow and grow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-244	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Fazekas. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-245	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. In fact, he exposed me because I have already withdrawn the two-minute speech, but if it seemed that I wanted to speak to him, then let me say no more than two minutes briefly. It's not a professional issue, I think it's meaningful. I was a Member of Parliament between 10-14. I missed five years. It is shocking to me the atmosphere in which the debates take place during this cycle. And now I don't want to make a difference about who started it first, so we can give examples. It's very negative for me to experience. At the same time, as agriculture is a matter of national strategy, I once went to the committee meeting, where there was a debate on the liquidation of undivided common property, and I was surprised at the whole concept of this committee, as it works, as the representatives of the government gave a substantive, concrete answer to all the points, and indeed, amendments were accepted, and it seems to be the case now in this bill. So it should be explained whether the personal composition, representatives of the government or opposition representatives were able to form it. I consider this to be very well followed, because when we throw a lot of things into each other's eyes here in the harsh political debates, and obviously both sides feel that they are rightfully using these very hard phrases, one is doing bad things, and the opposition is trying to do bad things, then maybe we should remember that we were able to find a common denominator here. Thank you very much. [[Continue in 166/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday 16 November 2020 166/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2020-11-16-246	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary.
u2020-11-16-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we are part of a moment that rarely arises between Parliament's walls that there are laws that, in a manner of speaking, have full opposition support. But I don't want to stop here, because if we look back now for the last two years, there was almost no agricultural law that couldn't handle this mandate. I can almost say that, almost without exception, the agricultural laws which the Agricultural Ministry, together with the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture and the national organisation of the farmers' circles, together with the Hungarian agricultural chamber, present to Parliament operate on a wide range of social debates, cooperations and professional foundations in which, I believe, opposition representatives do not find a more serious objection either, because, somewhere in the background, their thoughts, too, may, as a result of professionalism, be incorporated into these laws, so to speak, in relation to the relevant professional interests. However, this is partly a political law, of course, but in itself we are in the debate of an extremely important law that has worked as a deficiency and obstacle for many years, or perhaps I could say for decades, and the thresholds that have been raised and pushed out today are hopefully releasing the power with which renewal, competitiveness, gives this host a new rise, another so-called outburst, if that phrase is not correct. In this case, what Mrs President has said is that the issue of generation change and the question of generations arises here: if our fellow farmers have such an opportunity, I am sure that it will become tangible for everyone that it is worth working in agriculture, it is worth doing in agriculture what we consider not to be a profession, but a calling for life. However, I must say that I am glad that, if these issues come to such common ground, and once again, I say that these laws will be discussed so widely that they reach almost every layer of society. The fact that opposition representatives and parties support this law, I believe, is particularly fortunate and beneficial for us. This also proves how this law has been brought back to Parliament. Irrigation law, undivided common property, and I could tell you how many laws we've had in recent years that can solve old disputes, old problems and difficulties by reaching a common denominator. I think it's the right thing to do. [[18.30]] But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to highlight some of these amendments from many of the TABs, or legislative committees, which have been included or made at the committee meeting, just because this has not been said within the walls of Parliament, or has been referred only partially to this. One of these, perhaps, is what our fellow LMP Member, Madam Group Leader, said, the possibility of processing products using raw materials produced on her own holding being a pre-production activity and thus falling within the scope of preferential taxation if it does not exceed the quantity laid down in the Small Producer Food Production, Production and Sales Regulation. So I think that this is the question that we can fully agree on. There was another suggestion, and we also considered the possibility that a close relative or employee could act in the course of the sale instead of the prehistoric producer. Well, I think that was a perfectly realistic suggestion, too. The following is to take into account the considerations of discretion in the case of penalties to be imposed in the event of an infringement, the completeness of the data scope of the prima facie register, and the rules on the payment of the chamber member fee in respect of the family holding of primary producers. The Chamber of Agriculture has also been mentioned in this amendment of the law, which, perhaps self-critically speaking, may not be in line with this law, but since this has become necessary, this has been formulated in this agricultural law. We should not have opened a new law on this right now, it has been incorporated into this law, and I think that this Chamber can also address a significant part of the issue, and this will also help the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and its members very much. Here, even in relation to the preferential taxation of beekeepers, an amendment was also adopted. That is why, I think, this also shows how widely we have tried, the committee has tried, the government has also tried to rely on incoming proposals, and that also means, as I have seen from today's speeches, that this law is actually being passed tomorrow. Thank you very much for your suggestions, thank you for the amendments and the support by which the agricultural laws will be supported in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-248	Thank you, Secretary of State Wolf. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain energy laws and the discussion of the summary amendment are coming up. The government referral is T/13108. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-11-16-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 12 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13108 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the legislative, regulatory experience of the past period, the changes in the energy sector and the measures implemented, it has become necessary to amend the energy legislation and to create an appropriate regulatory environment for the third energy package. The bill on electricity, amending the law on the supply of natural gas and the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office requires a decision to be taken on the third level of price regulation, to be determined by the Office, and on the other hand provides for the possibility of a general appeal against these decisions in administrative proceedings. To date, electricity and gas price regulation has been a two-tier guide, a regulation, but after the proposed amendment, a three-level regulation, a guide and a decision would be adopted. The purpose of this amendment is to establish a third level of regulation. Under the current sectoral rules, the specific applicable rates of system use and related charges are laid down in the Office's regulations. In order to ensure an effective remedy under the Third Energy Package Directives in respect of the specific applicable level of fees, it is necessary for the licensees concerned to adopt decisions instead of regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, During the negotiation of the bill, I think it is important to mention that, according to the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the European Commission's infringement procedure against Hungary, Hungary has not infringed EU law by excluding the recognition in system charges of the specific tax on energy networks and the costs associated with financial transaction fees. The European Court of Justice has confirmed that Hungary complies with the regulatory requirements of the EU energy market and that the European Commission can decide, without having a say, on these issues which are of particular concern to the reduction of tariffs in the Member States. In addition, Hungary will ensure an appropriate redress mechanism in order to ensure that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has an effective remedy against the decision to set system charges by means of the amendments under this legislation. According to the European Court of Justice, Hungary's public policy and the reduction of the rent do not conflict with EU law, Hungary has won its debate with the European Commission and has defended the results of the reduction. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-16-250	Thank you very much, Congressman David. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Kaderjak, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now take place after no rapporteur has been drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. On the display you can see the time frame on the agenda, there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-251	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I was obviously also involved in the general debate on this bill, and it is only natural that, in such a proposal, which is multi-territorial, but which comes here for an important reason, MEPs also spoke in a very broad sense, and raised issues that are not part of this present proposal. So at this closing debate, I am confined to how Jobbik intends to vote, and why. The speech of the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee revealed that everything was in order with this so - called bill for reduction. So let us be clear: this bill is not here because everything is okay, but because there is an item that the European Court of Justice has found not to comply with the corresponding EU treaties. And I want to be fair, I know that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings on a number of items concerning this law, which Jobbik supported at the time. Two of these items came before the Court of Justice, and one of which he considered to be wrong, and that is why we are here now to correct it, and in this particular violation, let us allow those providers to have access to redress. [[18.40]] Since this is an issue raised by the opposition at the time, the lack of this possibility of redress has now led the Hungarian Government to make this correction, so Jobbik will, of course, support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-16-252	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, I'll ask... [[For signal:]] But I'm not gonna ask because there's an applicant. Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction.
u2020-11-16-253	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just gonna talk to him very briefly. In the general debate, we can say that we have had such an energy policy debate. It was not as pleasant as what we have just said, that the tone of the government is quite different from that of agricultural legislation, that there are other Commission reactions, that it is worth presenting amendments, and that there is room for manoeuvre for the opposition, and it is also apparent that we will support it unanimously. I can tell you that this bill, as Mr Balczó also said, is technically a technical one, in fact the government is on a forced course, and we will also support it. By the way, I regretted that in the general debate, Mr Secretary of State presented such a propaganda text, he practically talked about the success of the rucksack, and I do not think that this had much to do with the substance of the proposal, and I do not think it was appropriate for this proposal. Still, let's forget about the past. I have a question for you, Mr. Secretary. In this general debate on energy policy, we could hear back the government's fundamental arguments on how and how it imagines Hungary's long-term secure energy supply, and in recent days we have received very worrying news from Belarus, right, Paks II. In the case of reactors considered as his sister's, there is a very serious problem, but a test plant was launched many years later, but there were very serious technical problems immediately. Does the government deal with these issues, monitor the activities of Rosatom in this direction, and do not worry the government that more and more ways and examples are used to question what you claim that nuclear energy is green, safe and inexpensive energy? I would very much like for the Secretary of State to address this in his reply in a few minutes. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-254	Thank you, Mr. Crusade. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-11-16-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, mentioned how much the Secretary of State talked about the success of the regime. In fact, this inspired me, and that is why I thought I would strengthen this idea, as you asked, Mr Group Leader, that at that time, Mr Secretary of State, tell me why they still give these energy sources to Hungarian families more expensively than the price on the world market would otherwise allow. So what we're seeing is that the price of oil, the price of gas, is far below the price you're giving to the population. That's how they make a big profit. We have suggested on several occasions that this profit should not be realised by you, I mean, not by public companies and, where appropriate, by your friends, but by handing this profit over to Hungarian families. So we can say that we check, because it is always said that you have reduced the rent, that is true, if we have to, we are celebrating it, to be perfectly honest, that this was a right decision for the government, but we do not understand why, when the world market price was able to reduce more than that, they did not go after it. So if this is such a cardinal and important question for you, I believe it voluntarily, then I do not understand that when it would have allowed for further price reductions for many years now, so we are not talking about months, but we are talking about years, then why did you not continue with this reduction and why you did not keep the rent that Hungarian families have to pay for any energy carrier somewhere near world market prices. If you could answer that during the debate, I would thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-256	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Zoltán Balczó, Member Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-257	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I fully agree with Mr Mesterházy that if there is room for reduction in these current Hungarian retail consumer prices, the government has a fundamental obligation to live with it and take advantage of it. At the same time, if I want to speak fairly in this approach, which takes into account today's and the previous agenda, let me say that I, when the government is always talking about what it could change during a given period of time, for example, wages, I always say that it is not in itself dynamism, perhaps the data of the last two years, but where we are at present in terms of wages, per capita consumption, because that is what is the standard. Then, unfortunately, I ask the question here, too, that the current evolution of world market prices has to be regarded as moderate, and if, with an expert background, it can be demonstrated that there is a spare, it must be done, but I prepared for today's meeting with the latest EU statistics in September 2020 and it turns out that in terms of electricity only in Bulgaria is cheaper than in Hungary in terms of electricity from 27 countries. And I looked at the retail gas price in this respect, which also takes into account the heat value, so we're in the best position with Romania in terms of cheap. So once again, if you can see that there are reserves, you have to make it even cheaper. But if I do want to be fair and think about what they have achieved in these 27 Member States compared to the fluctuating world market price, then I have to say that both gas prices and electricity prices are among the cheapest in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-258	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if someone at the appointed time wants to take advantage of... [[There's no signal.]] He doesn't want to use it. I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Peter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, to hold his end of the debate.
u2020-11-16-259	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to begin by thanking several opposition parties for their support for this proposal, and we have heard it here today, Jobbik and LMP have said so. I think that this fact gives at least a nice sequel to the debate on the previous bill, because there we also talked about you talking about the fact that, where appropriate, these are forward-looking signs in the debate in Parliament. Allow me to continue by saying that, although the amendment seems technical, there is only one point where the law on electricity and related law on natural gas, the law on the energy office, which creates an opportunity to appeal against the decisions of the Energy Office, the root of the story really goes back to the policy on reducing electricity. So it is very difficult to talk about this proposal for an amendment without, in fact, listing the facts and results in this regard. So it wasn't a propaganda presentation when I tried to tell you about it the other day, but a summary of the facts that led to this amendment. Let me recall that the measures taken in recent years have reduced the prices of the final consumer by 25 percent for the gas, district heating and electricity sectors by an average of 25 percent for Hungarian consumers compared to those measures not being taken. [[18.50]] If we do these simple estimates, we find that the Hungarian families have saved 1700 billion forints in their energy and utility bills by the end of 2019. I would also like to thank Mr Balczó here for his contribution. So I did not necessarily have to refer to this, and that is in part the answer to Mr Mesterházy's suggestion. I think that the reduction in Hungarian overhead in this area has come to the border from which it is risky to move further. We see that the price of electricity and gas for the final consumer is the cheapest, second cheapest in Europe for the Hungarian population in European comparison. I would like to add that, of course, Hungarian retail consumers have not lost their right to switch suppliers. If free market traders offer a better offer to the Hungarian retail consumer, to me or to you, no one will prevent consumers from switching to this service provider to find the best solution. But it seems that there are no providers in the free market who can offer consumers better than this regulated price today, since we do not hear about such offers, we do not have a mailbox full of such offers. I'm sure there's a reason for that. One of the reasons is that energy prices are volatile, and when they're down, they're up. Several opposition parties have experienced a significant increase in energy prices and regulation can hold on and have had to increase or increase energy prices to multiples at the time. We don't want to be in these shoes. So the principle is that, when energy prices are more moderate, it is worth creating a reserve for the times that we are seeing at present in terms of gas prices, when a new increase is beginning, so that we do not need to increase gas prices at these times, but that we can guarantee stable, predictable final consumer prices for the general public. Dear House, I would like to reiterate and stress that a comprehensive attack on the part of the Commission was launched against its proposal for a full reduction of the costs at the time, on many points the Commission criticised and attacked the measures that Hungary has taken in implementing the third energy package. It should be said that, once again, according to the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 16 July 2020, the relevant regulation at regulation level does not require that the costs related to the specific tax on energy networks and the financial transaction fee should be taken into account when setting the charges for access to networks. With this, the Commission's last criticism of price regulation was rejected, and the Commission essentially stated that the arguments, the basis on which the Commission initiated a review of the Hungarian regulations, were not in place. There was only one point left, a procedural request that had to be corrected. That is what is happening in the current bill. We can say that after a long dispute Hungary defended the results of the reduction. The European Commission also stated, as has already been said, that there should be effective remedies for the decisions of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office setting system charges, and that, in order to establish a legislative framework for the missing mechanism, the bill before you proposes to amend the law on electricity, the law on gas supply and the law on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The three-level regulation that we have already heard in the head of the Legislative Committee is in place, and this is in practice the complete conclusion of the dispute between the Commission and Hungary on this subject. I would like to inform you that we have also specifically agreed with the Commission's representatives on the amendment proposal, which concerns the length of the judicial procedure in the legislative committee's amendment proposal, and which also has the agreement of the Commission's officials. Together with this, I thank you once again for the supporting contributions made during the general debate, as well as for the work of the Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee. The ideas, opinions, arguments and the absence of an amendment by its representatives to the bill indicate that the maintenance of the reduction of the rent and the consumer-centricity of the national energy strategy are out of the question. Therefore, I would ask the honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote, and I would like to ask that we return to the question of the Belarusian nuclear power plant on the next occasion. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-16-260	Thank you, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legislation on climate policy and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Government referral T/13263. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor.
u2020-11-16-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13263. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 33 votes in favour, not by vote and with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The proposal before you contains amendments to two previous laws, namely the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on the participation of the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. amendment of law. The most important element of the bill is to make domestic climate regulation simpler and more transparent, and to legislate the new provision strengthens the legislative framework for adapting to the effects of climate change. Dear House, The government's priority is to protect our environment and fight climate change. The proposal before us is yet another step towards achieving full climate neutrality in Hungary by 2050. It is not only the commitment, therefore, but also firm action. [[19.00]] Hungary has already achieved a significant reduction of almost 33 percent compared to 1990. Our country was among the first Member States of the Union, where an ambitious, though realistic, 40 percent reduction target was set at the statutory level by 2030. This can be said by very few Member States outside Hungary. A few weeks ago, the European Commission proposed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from EU countries, but the target for greenhouse gas emissions proposed by the Commission is not for individual Member States but for the European Union as a whole. There is therefore a need for a common burden, since the target will only be achieved if the EU takes action together in the fight against climate change. Hungary is one of the few countries in the world that has so far managed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by continuously increasing its economic performance. In 2018, with an increase in GDP of 5.1 per cent, greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 0.9 per cent and a decrease of 0.3 per cent in 2019 with an increase of 4.5 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, We are working on making decisions based on a fair and proportionate commitment between Member States. The main aim, however, is not to impose an additional burden on Hungarian families, while other EU countries are underplaying in terms of climate change commitments. Therefore, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-262	Thank you very much, Congressman Ádám Hey, David. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author, Mr. Peter Kaderjak State Secretary, now or later... [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: Now.]] Now. You have the floor. However, I must say that you have a time frame of 15 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting the possible closing phrase. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary Kaderjak.
u2020-11-16-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you know, the bill before you in the field of climate policy is designed to amend two laws, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework, and the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision in particular for harmonisation purposes. In view of the EU greenhouse gas trading scheme, the EU ETS's fourth trading period from 2021 to 2030, the EU institutions have taken a number of new measures to further develop the scheme. Accordingly, many of the elements of the ETS regulation will be changed from 2021, which will also have to be transposed into the Hungarian legal system. The importance of the EU ETS is enormous as it covers about 45% of the total EU greenhouse gas emissions in the areas of the system, energy, industry and civil aviation. It is no coincidence that one of the hubs of discussions relating to the target increase is the future fate of European emissions trading. For sectors outside the EU ETS, including transport, agriculture, buildings and waste management, decarbonisation takes place within the framework of the so-called effort-sharing scheme, the EU rules of which have also been renewed and will apply from 2021. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The primary objective of this bill is therefore to ensure that our country complies with the obligation to harmonise legislation arising from EU law in order to combat climate change more effectively. Dear House, In addition to legal harmonisation, the proposal is also aimed at deregulation of certain rules of the two aforementioned climate policies. In the case of the Climate Action Act, this means repealing the provisions of the emission reduction scheme introduced by the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which have since been empty. We are confident that international negotiations to replace the Kyoto mechanism, to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions currently being developed under the Paris agreement, will continue effectively, in a timely manner, and that regulation will be put in place, so that we can work out detailed rules for implementation at home on time. In the case of greenhouse gas trading, the bill removes regulatory parallels that make application of the law and enforcement of the law more difficult to comply with, repealing, in addition, detailed rules that are unnecessary to regulate at legal level, and which often require amendments from domestic legislators following regular review of changes in the underlying EU legal acts. I would like to highlight a positive change for legal entities which, in view of the change in the EU legal provisions on the basis of which fees are based, means simplifying the regulation of payment obligations for customers of the National Climate Protection Authority and reducing their administrative burden. The proposal establishes the supervisory fee to be paid by the installation operators and aircraft operators and retains, as payment obligations, only the existing account management fee placed on new funds in the proposal. Dear Parliament, In addition to legal harmonisation and deregulation, the bill contains a new provision in the Climate Action Act in one of the most important areas of the fight against climate change, as regards adaptation to the impacts of climate change. The aim of this provision is to establish a legislative framework for public adaptation activities. The establishment of a basic framework can be achieved at legal level, with a view to the principle of gradualness, along the lines of prevention, defence, remediation, remediation and recovery. While the legal framework is important, adaptation-related activities are carried out and effectively implemented in the framework of professional strategies and plans. The only amendment to the bill has been proposed by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck on this adaptation clause, who believes that the move is welcome but not sufficient. On the other hand, we believe that, on the basis of the strategies and plans adopted, the practical steps of adaptation will be implemented. The first climate action plan adopted by the government, which runs until the end of 2020, includes concrete adaptation measures, the implementation of which is ongoing and the development of the second climate action plan is also under way. Existing reporting obligations at different EU and international levels also ensure the transparency of our activities. The aim of the new provision of the Climate Change Act is therefore only to bring adaptation frameworks to a legal level. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to all Members who participated and contributed to the general debate and in the detailed debate, and I particularly appreciate the unanimous adoption of the legislative proposal in the Legislative Committee. There have also been positive, supportive comments from the speakers of the opposition, and that is why I am confident that the Parliament will eventually be able to support this basically legislative harmonisation and the bill for simplification and transparency by means of a broad consensus. It is of particular importance for Hungary to comply with the obligations of harmonisation arising from our membership of the EU on time and to protect against harmful environmental, natural, health and social impacts due to climate change, as reflected in the bill before you. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that in the course of the debate, he has a total of 7 minutes and 30 seconds to speak and to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee for Sustainable Development has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, Deputy Group Leader of the LMP Group. Here you go. [[19.10]]
u2020-11-16-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, this bill, as Mr State Secretary said, contains EU legislative harmonisation amendments. It's okay. However, with regard to this bill, on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology did not fail to include an additional point in the amendment, namely 3/A on adaptation to the effects of climate change. § 1. This is what you referred to, Mr Secretary of State, that I had such a related amendment, which, of course, was not voted for by the majority of the government for our grief. We see that the passage that the Ministry entered was more of a few sentences to reassure the conscience, because we believe that this is a semester away. You are away from the LMP proposals, so, Mr House, I hope you will forgive me, but I would like to repeat the proposals of the LMP here, even in order to make Mr Secretary of State pay more attention and to remember it better. We hope that these proposals will pass successfully next time. So, first of all, we think that, given the gravity of the situation, every two years a situation assessment and forecasting of climate change-related, emerging and expected changes should be prepared for Parliament in terms of sectoral and vulnerability regional breakdown. We believe that it is important to ensure that this report is published and that it is made clear and factual. Every three years, in addition to informing the Parliament, the state of natural swallowing capacities such as forests, grasslands, wetlands and the direction, extent and time of changes should be reviewed. I think the Ministry also thinks that this is important, because when we talk about climate neutrality, climate neutrality by 2050, but as many scientists and many people say, it is important to reach it by 2040, and the situation of our swallowing capacities has a significant role to play in this. In this regard, it is very important to know at least every three years where we are. We also consider it important that the government prepares and prepares detailed strategies on preparation tasks on the basis of the risks of climate change in certain sectors of the national economy and ensures the conditions and transparent monitoring of their implementation. Obviously, in this context, it is also important to ensure the resources of the tasks in the annual budget. At the mid-term of the national river basin management plan and at the time of its renewal, the government shall draw up a comprehensive report on the qualitative and quantitative state of the country's surface and groundwater waters, the availability of strategic water resources. I don't think there's much to explain why this is necessary: drought periods, water scarcity, and water is indeed a national treasure. A summary report on all four should be prepared on climate change, damage to exceptional weather events, forecasting, damage prevention, damage control and recovery measures implemented. Let me add a little something to that. What we see is that if such a sudden flood-like rain or weekend comes, for example, it brings down the roof to a lot of families and floodes the cellars, there will be very serious damage, and there are no insurance companies prepared for it. So here, overall, there are up to billions of damages at national level; somehow families will need to be helped. Finally, I would also like to mention that by providing European and domestic resources, municipalities should be helped to prepare themselves for the effects of climate change and for adaptation. We have made these amendments, additional proposals. I have to say, we regretted the fact that the majority of the government does not vote for this. I hope that climate change will not force the government to accept these proposals. It would be much better if you accepted the LMP proposals first. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for listening.
u2020-11-16-266	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-267	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question on this subject from the Secretary of State about how much part of solar energy production will be outsourced to foreign entrepreneurs in Hungary, as in the latest news, it was announced that Turkish businessman Polat, who is a personal family friend of the Prime Minister, will have access to such a larger power park. How does this fit with your grudge against foreigners that they're taking out profits and coming here from multinational companies? It seems to me that many Hungarian entrepreneurs would also like to build such a huge solar park, but you are entrusting it to a Turkish businessman. Is there any reason for that? How does it fit in with the government's domestic entrepreneurial policy of providing more and more foreign businessmen with such a long-term profitable and non-replaceable opportunity, so finite in Hungary? Again, under this law, or in the light of these goals, it seems that you want to fill your friends' pockets, I might add, here specifically the pockets of your foreign friends. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I, too, would like to ask a very quick question to the Secretary of State. In the summer of last year, we met the problems of a settlement in a very shocking situation. There, too, because of the consequences of climate change, there have been weather anomalies that have not yet been seen by the oldest people, and the devastation that has been caused and seen in this small settlement has been brutal. The system problem is that municipalities are not prepared for what they can do in this situation, how they can help the people who live there, what resources they can get. Indeed, there have also been problems with insurance companies that simply put people who are already in difficulty, especially in rural areas, in an impossible situation. Here we need a fundamental, comprehensive regulation. I have also made proposals to the Ministry of the Interior on this matter. Now, obviously, a lot of people have been swept away during the coronal virus crisis, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give us the opportunity to put these proposals before the government in substance, and indeed we can make a proposal, to create a comprehensive regulation that can help us solve this system problem. I would add that, at the time, Mr Szászfalvi, it was fully open that we are trying to approach this issue together, not on the basis of party policy, and I very much hope that the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Innovation will be open to this. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-270	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-11-16-271	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for your comments. On the proposal of Congresswoman Schmuck, let me say so much in our defense that national climate change strategies are adopted by the Parliament. The second strategy was adopted recently. These strategies should naturally include a description of the situation on which a number of such demands have been made in this proposal. So every two years, every three years, the report to Parliament on the state of vulnerability, the state of the swallows, must appear in these strategic materials. But then there's a problem with strategy itself. You must be able to conduct the debates here in Parliament on the analysis of these strategies that you mention. Otherwise, I fully agree that it is for the government to monitor and report on these developments before the Parliament. [[19.20]] All I would like to add is that the National Adaptation System, which operates within the framework of the MVFSZ, gives us countless unparalleled valuable contributions to our knowledge of adaptation. In fact, I would just like to draw attention to the publications and work of the Centre at this point and point out that we are doing a great deal from the government side to ensure that information about the action is available. I would like to draw your attention to the question of Mr Mesterházy, however, that the Hungarian solar power plant development market has become a highly diverse market. If you say that the government wants to fill the pockets of its friends, then I say that everyone is our friend. I don't know, you observed that the last METÁR tender received 272 investment proposals, which will give every undertaking wishing to try in this area the opportunity to submit the best offer, but the previous form of the METÁR tender has already given us the opportunity to do so. We see that there are predominantly Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises among investors, and that is the goal of government policy. The fact that there are foreign investors in the Hungarian market is also a matter of fact. Otherwise, the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office issues the related KÁT and METAR licences to those who acquire this right. But once again, the aim of the government's policy is to make sure that those developers who develop industrial-sized, commercial-sized photovoltaic projects come out of the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector. We see a very large and very encouraging competition in this area. Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to thank you for your comments in the debate, and I would like to conclude my comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-272	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the change in the status of employees of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and the discussion of the summarised amendments follow. The government referral is T/13476. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws necessary for the change of the status of persons employed in the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The primary objective of this bill is to ensure that researchers employed in the research network are able to organise their wages in a competitive manner within the framework of the option created by the expansion of resources to support the operation and in order to achieve the tasks of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network more effectively. The bill creates the possibility of increasing the performance of the research network by means of individual motivation in the future by means of more flexible employment rules resulting from a change of status. The legal relationship under the Labour Code gives the employer greater freedom to determine wages, which, in addition to maintaining talented researchers and supporting the replacement of researchers, also results in a significant reduction in administrative burdens. The proposal also gives the Eötvös Loránd Research Network the opportunity to express their opinion, establish scientific scholarships and awards, awards, awards, and central budget bodies such as research centres and institutes to carry out business activities in the same way as previous regulations. In addition, if the results of the activity are used to carry out their public tasks or to assist them within two years of the reference year, this amount shall not be subject to a payment obligation. Dear House, In addition, the proposal also proposes to simplify and clarify the existing legislation as justified by practical experience with the National Science Policy Council and to ensure that one more person can be involved in the work of the National Science Policy Council, thereby providing the Eötvös Loránd Research Network with a statutory representation. The proposal before us must be supported, as the measures contained in it will help the Eötvös Loránd Research Network to achieve a significant increase in its own research network's performance in terms of both traditional and new indicators of excellence. Please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate.
u2020-11-16-275	Later.
u2020-11-16-276	Mr State Secretary points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a total timeframe of 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, while no two-minute comments are possible. I give the floor to Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the House, on behalf of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-16-277	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ceterum censeo, the EPP Jobbik, has protested from the very beginning that the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been outsourced; in recent months it has been proven that it is not by accident. For let's face it, this bill before us does nothing but deprives excellent researchers of the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences of the status of civil servant. By the way, 78 percent of the workers disagree. But what do you care about the opinion of the representatives and the workers of Hungarian science? ! Well, we've seen it in this process: none. I must say that the justification I just read is more than cynical. It is more than cynical, because the employment of civil servants would not prevent higher wages from being paid to Hungarian scientists at both the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and at universities. This is a very shady argument used not only in this sphere, but also in the cultural sphere, for the anti-science, intellectual and cultural Fidesz, which I would like to protest against. In addition, when the members of the National Science Policy Council are outsourced, we see the same intention, and based on the experience so far, the incredible danger to academic freedom that the same Fidesz government is constantly doing when turning universities into foundations. It will continue this week, this time with the Veszprém-based University of Pannonia. [[19.30]] You can see that these curators are virtually withdrawing the powers of the Senate elected by the university citizens, which, by the way, since the Middle Ages, has not been much of a distraction in the European culture circle, and I will tell you why. CHAPTER XXI In the century, in which knowledge and information are the main power, you want to change the issue of Hungarian science to such neoliberal economic principles and production indicators, both in the academic sphere and in the university sphere. They're very wrong. For example, in creative industries, there is a great need for highly qualified, language - speaking staff who are involved in human science. Your entire activity is about the fact that now, under market conditions, we have to deliver something. With all due respect, we're not making screws, we're making educated heads of people in universities and academic research. In addition, since Count Széchenyi of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences I have been a little closer to the Count since his birth in Sopron, it seems that the majority of the Fideszes here can hardly use the name of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, either, according to the bill before us, because this research institute, which now bears the name of Loránd Eötvös, just in order to be well connected, let's say, with my university, will have to make the name of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences disappear from virtually everywhere. Well, congratulations, we managed to remove one of the most important brands, to which most of the Hungarian citizens also look prominently. As a member of the public body of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and as former university leader, ceterum censeo, I object, and the EPP Jobbik will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-11-16-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'll be very, very brief. The general debate has been very long, and I can tell you that the Secretary of State has responded very well here, filling up the time available to reply, and I still believe that the fundamental differences that the government and we think about this proposal have not been able to bring to the common denominator in any way. We believe and can say this, in agreement with my fellow Member, that this is an outrageous bill, and for the only reason that it cannot be supported, is that it is done in spite of the will, intention and opinion of those involved, those involved in the bill. I think that this is totally unacceptable. We have also heard many quotes and opinions in the general debate that, in particular, the proper preparation has not been made, nor has a representative trade union been able to give an opinion on this issue, but I think that the stakeholders have made their views on this proposal quite clear and therefore cannot be supported. What I can tell you is that it is quite amazing and shocking, as shameful as the teaching and research wages are, and when you talk about it, fellow Members, let us not forget that you have been ruling for ten years. In ten years, they would have had the opportunity to settle these wages. At the same time, measures have been constantly taken, mainly in the last few years, which have increased uncertainty and generated the process of leaving the course precisely because of such mistrust and insecurity, a lot of people simply started working in a different profession, or left the country, and this was invaluable damage to the Hungarian nation. I think that this is completely unacceptable, and when the government starts to address such an extremely important issue, it should be a fundamental principle for decision-makers to be able to make proposals on such issues without the professional opinion of the stakeholders, without consulting the stakeholders and having a meaningful consultation with the stakeholders, and not to do preparatory work on such matters. The LMP will very strongly reject this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-11-16-281	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking the Secretary of State when they're going to finish this cultural battle that they're doing in the field of education and culture policy. When we were on the government, all I heard from the Fidesz MEPs was that without an impact assessment on something and specifically discussing it, we would discuss these issues with the relevant representatives of the profession, without making any decisions, without which the then government is rushing without these impact studies, without professional, sectoral discussions, and now we see that, on the basis of a cultural struggle, you are simply knocking down the field of education, science and culture. They seem to be unable to resist the pressure on the government by right-wing opinion-makers, by the decisive, specifically conservative actors of scientific life, cultural life, who, due to perceived or real grievances, want to occupy these areas, and we see that the road roller is moving forward and that further and further areas are being covered. What we are talking about now concerns the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but we hear it on a daily basis, and there will still be a discussion on this in the next few days, which affects higher education in different forms, but of course the fields of education and culture are also on the agenda. So my question, Mr. State Secretary, is that you, as an expert in this profession, have managed these areas as a rector in Pécs myself, and my parents are also from Pécs, so I would ask you how you see this as a teacher, as a professor, how welcome this speed is. How would you have seen this as a rector, if a socialist government had transformed the University of Pécs without consulting you, then you would have been satisfied with this schedule, would you have been satisfied that you were ignored, didn't want to hear your opinion, and simply changed the institution above your head, so that you couldn't even comment on it? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State, who, I think, wants to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr Secretary, you have the floor if you wish to take the floor. [[On the sign of József Bódis:]] Yeah.
u2020-11-16-283	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for the last debate on the bill and for the opinions and reactions you have expressed in connection with this debate. You may feel uncomfortable asking the same questions all the time, and you do not feel uncomfortable telling my creed about them at all times, not necessarily in terms of the technical part of the bill, but in terms of its conceptual charge. In 2010, I became a rector of the University of Pécs, and when I was a rector at the first so-called Hungarian Rector's Conference, I came up with the question of university autonomy. At the time, I was so quick to respond, I asked for a word, and I said that I did not quite understand how to talk about university autonomy, when the state tells us what, whom, why to teach, what numbers and what results we expect. When I was preparing for the Rectorship, I also looked into many historical precedents, and I think that one of the foundations of university autonomy is that the university should have wealth, have tribal wealth, become an economic independence state. The fact that programmes, which, if you go through universities, lead to a degree, a diploma, are accredited, are accepted and taken for granted by everyone, so it is accredited training, not only in Hungarian, but also in international terms, and that is fine. At the same time, when we are taking our universities into the direction of model change, which are willing to do so, we give them exactly the kind of autonomy that they have to have their own property, be a professional gnome that exercises maintenance rights, and otherwise apply this much more flexibly, with fewer constraints, without constraints. [[19.40]] Academic autonomy always comes up. Believe me, no one wants to dictate that a researcher, when he puts together his science program, what methodology to use, is to evaluate it. It's not a political issue. The change of model is not a political issue, it is a professional issue. Four years ago, I said this several times, and now I'm telling you, every January at Corvinus there is a scientific conference on higher education, four years ago I outlined the foundation model as the president of the Rector's Conference. They always criticize centralization. Now, why can't they just be happy that we're moving the universities a little further, so the model-shifting universities, so we don't want to interfere in their work? Of course, the frameworks are provided by the law, but we give them an economic autonomy with a long-term financing contract of 15-25 years or an annual financing contract. I think it's an infinitely positive move in itself. Another question is that just because a person becomes a model changer doesn't mean the Canaan is here to make it a success, it takes a lot of work. By the way, we need a job in the state system, and we need a job in the foundation system. They always refer to this 78 percent, that 78 percent of those working in the Eötvös Loránd research network refuse to move from Kjt. to Mt. They forget to add that this was a survey of 20 percent of the workers. What about the other 80%s? I think that when we talk about numbers, it is also important to say this. Wages are indeed low in the research system, but now that we are doing this restructuring, they are already getting a 30% wage increase, which is the first step towards moving towards European research wages. I don't know if this is a cultural battle or not, I'm not a trained politician. So I think that a change of structure is definitely a research system operated on the basis of a different strategy and concept, which has to be touched because we are not good at all parameters, either in the world or in Europe. What we are good at is generally in terms of scientific work, scientific achievements and their publication. What we are weak at is how scientific results become a product useful to society, for the economic environment. It's called innovation. In terms of innovation, we would like to go ahead, with the government supporting this financing background by 11 billion more this semester, and the next year the Eötvös Loránd research network will have 22 billion more resources. I believe that this is at least a material expression of the intention to operate a more productive, prosperous and flexible research network that responds to life's challenges. I wanted to respond to the suggestions with these thoughts. I don't want to go over the time frame right now, but the other day, I did it by accident, because I'm getting really warmed up. Anyway, I would like to thank you once again for all the suggestions, all the criticisms. Criticism always sharpens the system, so we're still waiting for them. However, I would like you to be able to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal to facilitate the connection of buildings to public works will follow. Government referral T/13478. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority position will be presented in a total time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee, within a timeframe of up to eight minutes. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 12 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13478 amending certain laws to facilitate the connection of real estate utilities. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 7 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill amends the Electricity Act, the Gas Supply Act and also proposes amendments to the Water Facility Act. Since 2017, the regulation of connection to the electricity, natural gas and drinking water and waste water networks has already provided an institutional framework for the applicant in the event of a request for access or unjustified technical conditions refused by the service provider. These rules of accession will be further simplified from 2021 onwards. The most important element of the regulation is that if the service provider does not accept the accession plans, the customer may turn to the authority in order to express the adequacy of the plan. If the service provider refuses to put the completed connection into service, the applicant may also turn to the authority. An important factor for Hungary's competitiveness is the shortening of the duration of public utility connections and thus improving the domestic investment environment. Compared to the time needed for the procedures of other EU Member States, a public utility connection period considered as an important condition for promoting investment can be further reduced in order to improve the domestic investment environment. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-16-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső the Believer, to present the position of the minority in a seven-minute time frame.
u2020-11-16-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. If, in some cases, someone had developed a delusion, reading the title of this proposal that it was something very positive, I would like to eliminate this. This is not the case, for example, for drinking water, it is a tax increase. This may seem rather harsh, so I think it is worth giving a little historical overview of how this situation has developed. In 2012, this government invented a special tax on plumbing. A lot of people who listen think this is a joke, it's not a joke, they're taxing every meter of drinking water. [[19.50]] Think about how the person who came up with this could have been such a sickly-minded person, since the construction of fixed drinking water and the promotion of it are the aims of all of us, and this was subject to tax in 2012. Now the invention is that I would like to raise the tax on this. Let all those city dwellers die. Because if we think about this carefully, then what's next? Next, the guy who invented this transmitter, I'll say it again: a plumbing station, next time he'll figure out a transmitter for chimneys, windows, pans, glasses, pants. Now he's figured out that in cities, four times as much, 4.5 times as in other places. It is also worth considering the reason for this. You will probably say, Mr. Secretary, that this is fair. [[Tamás János Schanda: That's right.]] I would like to say that this system that you have developed is not fair, it is a distorted system. [[Tamás János Schanda: For others it is easier...]] If you think about it carefully, you will find that what you call truth may be your truth. It's simply a political decision, punishment, revenge. For all water suppliers operating in areas of major population density, this new bill is an extra burden, and I could say that it is an unprecedented taxation. This applies to all cities, all county seats, and applies mostly to, for example, the capital that rejects the Mafia state, where this amount is 4.5 times higher; and the fact that we are not talking about 2 forints is, in scale, about 4 billion forints. I think that if we have come this far in our thinking, we need to look at what this will bring. And that is the real danger of this proposal. Because, apart from revenge, I think there is a very big problem right now, this action is causing an epidemic risk; and in the event of a pandemic, an emergency decision, I think, is an inhuman decision. Let's see what that means. Water service providers manage certain and fixed incomes, which is due to the fact that they have come up with a reduction in the cost of electricity. The reduction in overhead costs does not allow water suppliers to raise charges. As a result, this increased tax burden can only be covered by expenditure. From the amount of money that they would have to solve during the operation of the company, i.e. they could be put as a burden on security of supply only to pay the State this 4.5-fold tax. In my opinion, it is not only that a person poisons wells, but also causes an epidemic risk, who makes it impossible to sterilize these wells, drinking water networks, keep them clean, replace end-of-life pipes, and quickly repair them in the event of any pipe breaks. That is why I think that those who have created this law, and I would like to accept it, are playing with the lives of millions of people, and I think that human life is not a game.
u2020-11-16-288	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Tamás Schanda, on behalf of the rapporteur, to ask at this time or at a later stage of the debate... [[Tamás János Schanda: Later.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that you will have a total timeframe of 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. First, I give the floor to our fellow Member, Member László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, For the most part, we heard our position in the minority opinion. We also believe that this is not just an easy thing to do, since we are also talking about a specific tax increase, usually in larger cities. We sat through the debate, we argued a lot about it on the Legislative Committee, where we learned that the price of water depends on how many people tie us to it. I added that, no, not just from the number of consumers and, of course, from where the water base is. Of course, you can argue about these things, but that's not what this is about at all. This, when he wanted, was resolved by any government in certain settlements, where the water base was not suitable, even the system itself, where the price of the water should not be too high per cubic metre, and by granting state aid to the provider not to have to raise a fee, which was supplied there, but everyone could be connected to it and, of course, have received this kind of care. The utility tax hits the countryside, Mr. Secretary of State, because not only the water was taken there, there is not only water and sewage supply, they picked up cable and internet lines in the small villages, because they could not manage the amount of the tax due to the limited number of connections. That's why it wasn't delivered there at the time. And of course, well, these systems need to be maintained. There's the reconstruction obligation. This is also at the waterworks in the capital, but there is also Baranya Water at the hop waterworks. It is everywhere, and all these costs must be paid in the price of water, indeed the tax, Mr Secretary of State, so it will not make water cheaper everywhere. I think that this is not necessarily going to achieve their goal, with the need to bring much more resources to replace poor-quality steel pipes, toxic asbestos tubes, and that would be a much nobler goal for this, by the way, European Union funds, which is where we listened to one of the State Secretarys not so long ago, and then I think that this would also be very right. But let's see what's behind this case. It is still much simpler than the sublime goals you set for you to make water cheaper in the countryside. It's not gonna be cheaper. This is about, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the waterworks in the South Plain have collapsed, and, moreover, their reconstruction obligations have been largely due to the public utility tax imposed. A hundred billion-dollar debt has been made in this sector, and the south lowland waterworks have collapsed. Now they're trying to pin it around the DRV's neck, and they're trying to put some small money next to it so there's water supply in this area. I think that this can be done more easily, and I ask you to find a solution that if many people have to stay at home now, because you will again say that you should stay at home, we will tell you to stay at home, because because the epidemiological situation is justified, we will increase the costs and the revenues will decrease. It is not possible to pay for the increasing fee from falling revenues, so I would ask you to add to this proposal that those who have been turned off from the service can be turned on free of charge, and I would ask that it is not up to the goodwill and responsibility of one of the service providers, as one of the service providers has done now, that it has done very noblely. So let's call it "E.ON." This is how E.ON acted by introducing a deactivate moratorium on its own. I think this could have been ordered by the government if it were as sensitive to the Hungarian people as the service provider is to its customers. I would ask you to reconsider these proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-290	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. [[20.00]]
u2020-11-16-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Members of the MSZP before me, I think they have very well explained the substance of this proposal and the problems it causes in the specific sector and the problems it causes, perhaps indirectly, but very many Hungarian municipalities. I would like to tell you about the aspects that specifically harm Miskolc and the Miskolc. I can tell you the same thing I told you before. In fact, your city's leadership has not been able to develop the drinking water network in nine years. There's the same outdated asbestos cement pipe network, which is a major part of the country. There has been a significant increase in network losses during this period, and experts say that this is practically close to 50 percent, so we can't put off the pipe change any longer. In this situation, obviously because of your legislative environment, these water utility providers have not been able to develop substantially, nor have you given any substantial resources to make these pipe exchanges happen; they have given you anything else, not to do that. This puts a significant burden on the municipalities and the companies concerned, and it greatly undermines the security of services, as Dezső Szigélő said, especially in an epidemic situation. And their concrete proposal, which you have tabled with several Fidesz MEPs by means of an amendment, says that according to the opinion of experts, the tax burden on Mivíz Kft. will increase by around 300 million. This means that since Mivíz is in municipal interest, this HUF 300 million can only be managed if the municipality withdraws funds from other important areas, because it cannot expect your help in this case. This may mean that, let's say, you have to take resources away from city management, park maintenance, potholery, or other areas of life. There is only one realistic thing you can do with this proposal before the vote tomorrow morning: withdraw it immediately! Renegotiate this issue with the stakeholders. And I will point out that if you are referring to the fact that this is just a fairer redistribution of this utility tax, then I would like to say that this tribute was introduced by you in 2012, it was not before that, and that, according to the professional organisation of water utilities, this tax should also be abolished, it would be the right procedure. So I urge you to withdraw this motion. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-16-292	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, we have not debated this issue in one round. When this proposal came before us at the general debate, I was able to say that we agree with this small proposal, but it calls for comprehensive solutions in the water utility sector, which is practically on the verge of collapse. Then I have received from you the many promises here, looking back over the years, and from your ministry, that you are preparing some strategy to save the sector, and I believe that you will also seek a solution for the utility tax that is good and that will bring you closer to the solution. Now, would that be the strategic thinking that some Members, with a motion for individual representatives, would suddenly submit a proposal that, in particular, would be positive in some parts of the country, but would it make it impossible to maintain the most important public service in other parts of the country? That's pretty awesome. If I look back here at the speech of my fellow Members, it is indeed possible to say that you were in a very, very difficult situation before 2010 before you came to government again, this is the whole sector. At the same time, it can be clearly said, and this is supported by the figures that, after 2010, the sector was even more difficult to deal with during your governance, and the problems have only multiplied. After 2011, the number of failures in the water utility system doubled and the proportion of water systems with an adequate rating decreased below 20 per cent. Today, the network loss is approaching 30 percent, so 30 percent of the drinking water produced is drained by bad pipelines. The various organizations are guessing between HUF 1500-3000 billion that is missing from the system in the 15-year horizon, which can now be planned, beyond visible resources. So exactly the Association of County-owned Cities figures this amount to HUF 3000 billion, the Water Utilities Association to HUF 1500 billion. It can be seen that there is a shocking shortage of professionals in companies, also due to a lack of resources, and in particular a significant part of the companies are on the verge of economic collapse. What the profession has been asking for for years now, we can say that a zero-step, a fire-fighting measure, would have been the abolition of the utility tax you have introduced. I have made a proposal for this at least five times, not so long ago, the Economic Committee has removed this proposal. In particular, my proposal was that this totally unjustified, unfair tax should be zeroed, withdrawn from the system. In a rather interesting way, the Chairman of the Economic Commission, Erik Bánki, also indicated that he agreed on a lot of things and that there would be some sort of solution. Well, that's the solution. They didn't run the utility tax. They remodeled it. So the amount of money they're collecting, someone, let's say, they're irrationally burdened, and in other places, clearly, let's say, positive. You can say that I would improve or complement my fellow Members in this way, because there are indeed supply areas, there are companies, especially in the rural area, where they are now better off at their rates. So far, the utility tax has been levied practically on the basis of the length of the pipe; now, according to the amendment, this would be determined on the basis of the volume of water transported. At the same time, I can say that, together with the fact that, for example, in the case of the already mentioned and close to bankruptcy of the Great Plains, the utility tax is all the easier, and perhaps even in the case of Vasivíz, a one-year delay compared to the collapse, but at the same time, there is a long list of supply areas, companies, cities where this particular situation will mean bankruptcy, they will not be able to solve it, and they will not be able to maintain this most important service. In the case of Metropolitan Waterworks, we can see that instead of 700 million, the rate of public utility tax will amount to 3.2 billion forints per year. The Member has already spoken about the situation in Miskolc, and here it represents an additional cost of 300 million. In the case of Szeged, the additional burden will be 500 million, the tax increase. In the case of Pécs, Tettye Forrás, providing HUF 82 million in Pécs and its region, calculated. But what I can tell you is that these huge losses will bring closer to the collapse that we opposition representatives are not talking about, but the profession. Is that the solution, Mr. Secretary of State? In ten years, the government has been able to get this far, namely, to push the water utility service in a metropolitan environment, in Budapest and in the largest rural cities, to the edge of indulging, indeed in such a serious epidemiological situation. There is one thing I can tell you, Congressman, that this is an outrage, and this is simply unacceptable. I mentioned that in Pécs, where I live, there is an additional cost of HUF 82 million per year for the utility tax, but I would add that the rolling development plan here looks like it has been very, very long years now, with a 15-year perspective, how much this will cost, how much resources is available, and how much is missing in a 15-year perspective. This is only 20 billion forints in this supply area of 200,000 inhabitants equivalent, Mr. Secretary of State, for years, I add. Even the Fidesz mayor asked where this source could be obtained from. Mr. Secretary, you came in here with a huge pacsamete for Parliament. I am very confident that that huge pacsameta is the particular sectoral strategy that will save the sector. But I ask you very much to explain where the resources can be created, which is a thousand billion-dollar scale, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has already acknowledged this, which is necessary to save the most important public service, the supply of drinking water. And what do you think, Mr. Secretary of State, that in such an epidemiological situation, during an economic crisis, we can practically see in the capital, and in how many large rural cities you have actually brought to the brink of bankruptcy, because that is what you have done so far, but in the medium term, you are putting the water utility sector into a state of collapse? I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State can give you some kind of meaningful answer. I would also like to ask you that you have received a letter from the Hungarian Waterworks Association. I know that the Association of Waterworks is, by the way, a representative of the 40-some water utility companies, and it has sent the Fidesz MEPs who have not tabled the amendment to this amendment that they consider the proposal to be totally unacceptable and call for this not to be accepted, and one amendment is acceptable: the removal of the public utility from the water utility law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-16-294	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-295	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to make it clear that I agree with what Members of the MSZP and Lóránt Keresztes said about the water utility issue, and indeed, the real solution would be that this totally harmful, unjustified tax should be abolished. But let me go back to the general debate because there was a consensus in the adoption. Do you know what the bill is about? The bill is about improving the connection of real estate. This includes electrical works, including gas supply and water supply. I myself have been able to say positive things about this bill because it is truly consumer-friendly, creating a new relationship in the context of the service provider and the consumer, which eliminates the often-perceived vulnerability that the consumer may have had. [[20.10]] I have also highlighted three of these items, the possibility that the supplier's decision is not final; and, as is appropriate in the rule of law, the customer may turn to the authority; if the service provider fails to respond, then his silence means acceptance. And one more example: it will also be possible to reimburse certified costs. This covered three areas, and then comes the government and the Fidesz Group of the Economic Commission, and brings in a proposal that is not directly related to the connection of utilities, but wants to change a tax, which is basically. So I'm here with this bill, like when I say, in a glass of wine, a drop of poison or a glass of pure water is a drop of poison. The notion that it has become more fair and that it may be more favourable for two thirds of service providers and worse for one third of service providers. I can compare the current situation to the fact that 50 people have to carry the same weight, and then they say, please, this weak physicist is very difficult, and this strong one is easy to carry, well, let's divide it differently. And they divide it differently so that those who have dealt with it, but with difficulty, have become easier for them, and a third of them fall under the burden. They're collapsing! So I can say that this is a positive change because the ratio is two-thirds? Let me add, and perhaps this is an experience-based time that I did not want to use an adjective, because the Secretary of State would have misunderstood what procedure we had on the part of Fidesz-KDNP many times? That, in fact, there is a different interest behind the goal they have announced. That's gonna mean that they can do it for the crappers to reach under the armpits and the others can't. So I don't like to discover political intentions behind every professional proposal, but this will actually be the end of it, and this will be the result. What does such a significant, huge amount of extra burdened service provider do? One of the things we have heard is that basic improvements or quality requirements will not be met. But the other is that water supply is also mandatory, so what can the municipality do? Should the residents remain without water? You can't raise a price, it's the result of the otherwise great rent law. Then he'll have to put in the money to keep this service alive while his own resources are being taken away. So once again, I thought it was a great law. As regards the connection to electricity, I may have studied this more closely, as an electrical engineer, also in the case of natural gas. But for us, Jobbik, it means that we cannot support it in the final vote, we will vote off the amendment, but the dilemma is to express that 80 percent of this law is extremely positive, and in that case we reject this proposal by abstaining, but unfortunately we cannot vote for it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-16-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-297	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State about what his predecessor, who was probably sitting in the chair where you were, did not answer the question of talking a lot about the reduction of the rent here, and I would like to know why the government has not stepped forward more bravely when world market prices make this step possible. After all, neither the price of electricity nor the price of district heating nor natural gas has the government moved on, even though these prices, international circumstances, would have allowed this to happen. My fellow Member Balczó spoke about the great pleasure of having these energy sources cheaper in Bulgaria and Romania than in Hungary. I would not be so happy about this, I would like to compare it to Hungary, to the standard of living of the people who live here, to what it costs and what it costs less. So, in Hungarian, I would simply ask the Secretary of State why they do not reduce the price of these energy sources, while the market has given us the opportunity to do so for many years, since 2014, and why these state companies are pocketing this profit, while Hungarian families could receive it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-16-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an applicant; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State, you have a 15-minute window.
u2020-11-16-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congressman Lords! I try not to take full advantage of the time frame at my disposal, but at the same time I am trying to answer the questions raised in the debate, even though it has dealt with a very small part of the bill, I believe, the debate. After all, the main purpose of the bill before us is to facilitate the home creation of the population, as it contains how to remove the remaining administrative, bureaucratic obstacles that are currently in the system in connection with public utility connections. This is an excellent bill, because it makes life easier for Hungarian citizens. And indeed, the bill was accompanied by a very good motion from Members, which I think we have had countless debates on in various forums, whether immediate or before the agenda, in the Legislative Committee. I believe that the same questions arise over and over again, but I will try to reflect on them once more. First of all, let me say that there is no tax increase, that tax restructuring can only be discussed, and we will make this whole system fairer. In fact, this could be a left-wing proposal. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We would still have supported him. The truth is that if we look at what Mr Crusades said in the general debate, he almost demanded this amendment. [[Demercation and continuous intervention from opposition parties.]] After all, Mr Group Leader has also said that it is unfair that this is a disproportionate burden for small settlements. I think that you should be proud of the fact that your proposal was basically heard by the Fidesz-KDNP party association and put a good proposal on the table, which the government was happy to support. Indeed, it is a matter of fact, Honourable Parliament, that as a result of the amendment, no more tax revenue is received by the State, it is a re-alignment of the tax, and the vast majority of those involved in taxation remember that 75 percent are otherwise better off with this fairer system. This will create a fairer system where service providers who supply drinking water through relatively smaller pipelines in settlements with a higher population density are not placed in a particularly good position. For the time being, this is how it has worked, and now a fairer, fairer system is being created, which takes into account not only the length of the pipeline, but also population density, i.e. the real burdens of the water utility provider. By the way, and let me draw attention to this, that this tax restructuring is not, in fact, a threat to security of supply, but, on the contrary, to security of supply, because it will help those who have been in a particularly difficult situation and who have been hit disproportionately by this tax burden. I think that this could be supported, which, in your logic, would, in principle, be a Eligible proposal. Dear Parliament, Allow me to tell you, and perhaps I should have started with this to provide clean drinking water for everyone. We've said this several times before, and the state's underlying responsibility stops anyway. I trust in the capacity of local governments. [[Continued intervention from opposition parties.]] I have more faith in the municipalities than you do, but the thing is, if anyone were to have problems, they would otherwise be taking on the underlying responsibility of the state and helping to deliver clean drinking water. [[20.20]] Dear Parliament, There's a lot to talk about here, let me reflect on two or three things quickly. On the one hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we really agree with the question, which Mr Group Leader has repeatedly indicated, that otherwise the reconstruction of the entire network is timely. The pace and the exact reason for this, we argued about this a lot, because the left has a serious responsibility in this respect, there is a serious responsibility for those who wanted to privatize public works, and they have run the wrong structure. [[Dr. László Keresztes towards Lóránt:]] Thank you for agreeing with this, Mr. Group Leader, but you can only explain to me, once, why you are in league with them, and why you want to bring back the system that you have admitted to be harmful to the entire sector, and even you acknowledge that significant progress has been made in the system. Dear Chief of Staff, The fact is that we agree that we need improvements here, and this is one of the biggest development projects of the next decade. We also hope that EU funds can be used for this, either from the recovery fund or from the multiannual budget. It would be good for the European Commission to support this. This is what I asked you to do the last time, with your own tools, so that not only the construction of the new pipeline, but also reconstruction, can be accounted for as much as possible from these sources. This would be an important and indeed timely development. We talked about a lot of things here. I must admit, I did not quite understand the Socialist Party's position, since on one side they initiated the abolition of the reduction of the rent, the abolition of frozen charges. I would like to point out to you that, unlike the left, we will always stand up for the policy of reducing costs, and we will not support initiatives that will lead to an increase in fees. We understand that there is a debate between us, and your government practice shows this, as opposed to ours, but the truth is, we are not going to be able to do that. Let us also allow the education of those who, if I remember correctly, raised the prices of electricity and gas 15 times, not to be accepted. They raised it whenever they could. To ask us, who have reduced the costs of the overhead, and who are, by the way, the cheapest in Europe today, whether it is electricity or gas charges in Hungary, I must admit that I do not understand these claims, but at least we can remember again what policy you have pursued and we can trust that this will never return to Hungary again. Dear Parliament, And what I don't understand is that I may not be well-trained in conspiracies about how the south lowland waterworks get mixed up here, and it's a specific problem of a specific company, a tax restructuring. If I count it well, it will also be better for them than for the vast majority of water utilities, but it is a piece of company of all. I don't fully understand why you think that for the sake of a company there would be any kind of amendment, and all the other tax revenues would go there, I didn't understand that. Allow me to say, therefore, that this has nothing to do with what you have suggested. Dear Parliament, Finally, allow me to thank you for what has been said in this debate, because I think that we have been able to have an exciting debate, not only now, but also on previous occasions. I trust that you will be able to provide unanimous support for this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-300	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the implementation of Act L of 2018 on Hungary's central budget for 2019 will be discussed. The Government's referral is T/13098. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as a minority and EU agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in a 60-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-301	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a bill for the closure of the 2019 central budget, the general debate of which took place on 21 October. The Committee on Budgets, as a designated committee, and the other standing committees of Parliament, discussed the proposal in the week starting on 26 October. Each of the committees concluded that the bill complied with the House Rule 44. § (1) and therefore the proposal complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law. I will present the Commission's proposals and opinions that have expanded beyond this. First, I will present the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, at least the majority, because the minority opinion will be heard in more detail by this House. In 2019 the rate of economic growth was 4.6 per cent rather than 4.1 per cent planned. All sectors of the economy were able to contribute to growth, but the two most important sectors were corporate investment and residential consumption. The willingness of companies to invest was greatly facilitated by the wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, under which the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage minimum were increased and, on the other hand, the employer's burden was significantly reduced. Thus, average earnings increased by 11.4 percent in 2019 compared to the previous year. This increase in wages also had a clear impact on consumption, as households spent more at the same rate as the increase in the total national product. Hungarian exports increased by 5.8 percent, while imports increased by 7.5 percent, but the external trade balance continued to show a surplus in 2019. With regard to fiscal processes, it is important to note the fact that in 2019 HUF 300 billion more money came into the state register than was planned. One of the reasons for this is the higher than expected increase in national products, but the positive base effect of online invoicing in 2019 should also be mentioned. It can be concluded that in 2019 the main sectors of the Hungarian economy were strengthened, while the balance indicators remained excellent. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has exceeded its previous year by more than a quarter of the budget for 2019. More resources have been allocated to the operation of foreign representation networks, which have been expanded with three independent and seven non-individual representatives: an embassy has been opened in Biskek, a Consulate General in Gdańsk and Innsbruck. Out of nearly HUF 18 billion, significant foreign real estate development was completed in Washington, The Hague, Copenhagen, Strasbourg and seven other locations. The efficiency of the portfolio's external economic activity is indicated by the fact that Hungary's exports increased by 3.9 percent in 2019 to 109 billion euros. With the assistance of the National Investment Agency, it was decided to invest more than EUR 5 billion in capital, which resulted in the creation of a total of 13 500 jobs. Nearly half of this capital, EUR 2600 million, comes from South Korea, which clearly shows the success of the Eastern opening. We spent double, HUF 37.5 billion on cross-border economic development programmes compared to the previous year. Transylvania could use 22.6 billion forints, Vojvodina 13.8 billion forints. In the framework of international development cooperation, the portfolio provided a total amount of HUF 2.8 billion in development aid to 11 developing countries, mainly Africa, the Middle East and the European Union's neighbourhood. [[20.30]] In 2019, the Ministry's tasks and powers were complemented by the professional management and operation of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme and the preparation of the trainings of the Hungarian Diplomacy Academy, with corresponding increase in resources. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. In 2019, government measures continued to promote the well-being of Hungarian people, families and youth, the improvement of the quality of life, the preservation of the natural values of our country, and a more environmentally friendly social setting. Expenditure on environmental protection was increased by HUF 72 billion compared to the previous year. Among other things, support for national park directorates, water directorates, waste management and the green economy financing system has increased. In addition, the government spent HUF 395.1 bn on institutional and sectoral environmental objectives in 2019, which is HUF 109.5 bn more than the previous year's performance. In the past period, the Hungarian village program has continued, as well as the modern city programme, so that Hungarian cities with county and rural rights have received additional funding. The resources received could mainly be used by municipalities for environmental, tourism and urban development, public education and health infrastructure development purposes. Opinion of the Economic Committee. The closing report shows that average earnings increased by 11.4 percent in 2019 compared to the previous year. The debt-to-GDP ratio gradually decreased to 65,4 per cent by the end of 2019. Government measures put the Hungarian economy on a long-term growth path, last year the total national product increased by 4.6 percent, which exceeded the projected 4.1 percent rate at the time of the budget submission. In 2019 the fourth fastest growth in Hungary was after Ireland, Estonia and Malta in the European Union. Unemployment has fallen to a record low level of 3.4 percent, while the number of employees has for the first time exceeded 4.5 million since the change of regime. Hungary's vulnerability has decreased significantly in recent years, due to the negative effects of the coronal virus epidemic in 2020 the country has faced a strengthened economy. It is an important goal for Hungary to be a family-friendly country, so a unique family tax system has been introduced in Europe as well. Family taxation has helped some one million families. In 2019 this system continued to expand, and in January 2019 the tax relief of families with two children increased to HUF 40,000 a month, which helped nearly 350 thousand families. In 2019 the government provided some HUF 1955 billion to support Hungarian families. This is nearly HUF 988 billion higher than the amount of aid in 2010. The tax relief for families continued to increase last year, and with the benefit of the first married people, it amounted to more than HUF 335 billion. The housing subsidies exceeded HUF 191 billion in 2019, which meant an increase of nearly HUF 44 billion compared to 2010. The tax reduction policy continued in 2019 and the social contribution tax rate decreased by 2 percentage points to 17.5 percent, leaving some HUF 300 billion per year for businesses. And, as I said, the following committees discussed and did not put forward a separate opinion: the National Security Committee, the Defence Committee, the People's Welfare Committee, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Affairs. Continued with the opinion of the Agriculture Committee: In 2019 agriculture also closed a favourable year, the overall output increased, last year it exceeded HUF 2700 billion. Profitability improved, investments increased and net exports reached a very high value. The share of agriculture, measured as a whole of the national economy's performance in 2019, has decreased even in spite of improved performance compared to previous years. In the field of crop production, the overall picture is mixed, since mainly arable crops have produced a particularly good result. For example, maize, barley, oats, and wheat. However, the quantities of sunflower and rape harvested have decreased, as have the most important varieties of fruit and vegetables, mainly due to weather conditions. Animal husbandry has been able to show growth in all major sectors, with the greatest expansion in the cattle sector, which has also been shown in export results. Production value in the food industry increased in 2019. The already mentioned outstanding agricultural exports amounted to EUR 9.4 billion in 2019, reaching the highest value of all time. The volume of exports exceeded the 2018 result by 8.2 percent. It is good to see how much external trade in agricultural and food products contributes year after year to the positive balance of the national economy. These results show that the government is on the right track, the strategy on which the development of agriculture will be implemented is appropriate. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Long-term economic growth and a secure financial background have allowed the renewal and expansion of the Hungarian institutional system abroad in 2019. The implementation of the national policy objectives set out in 2010 could therefore continue on a sound basis. In recent years, more than 5,000 foreign institutions have been able to benefit from the support in the motherland, thus strengthening Hungarian communities across the border. Since 2012, the State Secretariat for National Policy has been supporting groups from abroad in the context of thematic years. Accordingly, 2019 was the year of Hungarian children from abroad, and programmes such as the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, the Petőfi Sándor programme or the Mikes Kelemen programme continued. Support for these programmes is intended to strengthen relations with the Hungarians of both cross-border and diaspora. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade also provided funds last year for the implementation of economic development programmes available to cross-border parts. In the framework of this, the Uplands received 1 billion, Transcarpathia 548 million, Transylvania 22.6 billion, Vojvodina 13.8 billion, Drávagyég 988 million and Muravidék 1 billion forints. This is just one example of the fact that the national political approach is now the whole of the Hungarian administration, since there are several wallets that provide support for foreign Hungarians. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. 2019 is undoubtedly a very good year in Hungarian economic history. This year, in addition to our expectations, the total national product increased by 4.6 percent, which exceeded 4.1 percent at the time the budget was submitted. The improvement in the income situation of households is also reflected in internal consumption data, which increased by 4.6 percent. A number of key factors are behind the increase in consumption. Without the need for completeness, we can, for example, describe the dynamic expansion of employment or the noticeable increase in real wages. We cannot go without saying that the number of people employed continued to increase significantly by about 1.0 percent in 2019. [[20.40]] The number of people employed in the competitive sector increased by 2 percent, while in the public sector it decreased by 3.8 percent. The number of employees has thus risen to an unprecedented level since the change of regime, reaching around 4.5 million people. The success has been underpinned by a number of measures to encourage labour market participation and job demand, including contributions and job search grants, as a result of a stable fiscal path for the economy. The successful fight against economic growth and the black economy made it possible to reduce the social contribution tax by another 2 percentage points in 2019 within the framework of the wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, which significantly alleviated the tax burden on businesses and at the same time on living labour. In addition, in order to shape the situation of small businesses, the eligibility conditions for small business tax have become more favourable and the revenue thresholds for the cessation of taxable persons have increased. Dear House, Your Honour, Mr. President. In the light of the macroeconomic facts, it can be concluded that in 2019 the main sectors of the Hungarian economy were strengthened, while the balance indicators remained stable. On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinions will now be presented in a total of 30 minutes' time frame, which will be presented by two rapporteurs. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, to present the minority opinion. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, I have already said in the general debate and in the Commission section that there is basically a distribution debate between us in relation to the 2019 closure. Therefore, GDP growth of 4.6 per cent must be recognised, and I often talk about the fact that otherwise it was an exceptionally good international economic environment, that it was a runaway national economy growth, apart from that, it should not be taken away, and this is undoubtedly a success. At the same time, from the GDP growth of over 4 per cent, just as our fellow countrymen did not participate in the service of others: the public workers, our fellow countrymen serving in the health care sector, and many of the people employed by the Hungarian state do not obtain adequate wages. In the same way, social groups that need us, not only the government, but also the opposition, the view that there is a level of income and a level of society below which the fundamental rights cannot be exercised by a social group and perhaps no member of it. We also need to talk about this in the context of closing accounts, because this is basically a budgetary decision on the level at which we do not allow our countrymen to sink, especially as a Member State of the European Union. The Minister also mentioned in the general debate and later in the Commission section that the shortage of labour is an existing phenomenon. But I argue that the combined existence of labour shortages and unemployment is an economic strategy planning error that needs to be corrected, and this is a crucial issue that concerns the Ministry of Finance. That is why we have already proposed different strategic directions with opposition colleagues when planning last year's budget. And our fellow countrymen, mentioned earlier, who have been completely left out of economic development, are most likely to inherit the misery in which they were born, so they are in a situation that is not worthy of man and man in Europe in the long term. The remaining rust zones show that there is some kind of problem here, and it is not just what Vice-President Lajos Szűcs has been talking about in the last 20 minutes. In my view, therefore, the 2019 budget left behind social groups and compatriots in general. And it's not just an economic strategy planning, it's also a social organisation error, at least in my opinion. Let me also present to you the minority opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development, and I will try to be brief in this matter as well. The evaluation of the 2019 budget confirms again and is also the year in which we are currently debating the adoption of a budget too early, resulting in instability. But it can be seen that the government, in principle, when we encounter another economic challenge or some sort of year-on-year problem to which we have to respond, is fundamentally changing the budget with regulation governance, and I can safely say that the entire opposition believes that it weakens democratic values and that it is unacceptable to leave the opposition out of these planning processes. In 2019 the rate of inflation was higher than the initially planned 2.7 per cent, as it reached 3.4 per cent. The price of this is paid and paid to those who live on wages and salaries, as well as to those who live on pensions, to this day. Moreover, last year, the government was unable to provide meaningful responses to the reduction of high labour demand. At the same time, the number of unemployed people showed an increase compared to 2018. We need to talk about our countrymen leaving abroad and about the fact that, of course, the return of labour income in domestic national income shows a positive result, but we must not forget that this also means that the number of our countrymen who left abroad has hardly changed since previous years, but has slightly increased. Unfortunately, this is a competitive disadvantage for us, resulting in a shortage of workers, which we meet in many sectors in the national economy and puts us at a competitive disadvantage in the international market as well as in the neighbouring countries. We need to talk about our retired compatriots, who have been essentially forgotten members of Hungarian society for years. There are workers who have been suffering from poverty for years, and they are among those who are on the non - sunny side of this society. Generally speaking, social differences have increased, and there are many people in our country today who are beginning to lose hope, because they feel that even if they work for each forint, they run out of income by the end of the month. This is why I do not think it is good that I do not dispute that there are social groups and compatriots who have risen in the last ten years, and this has happened to them in the 2019 budget year, but that the members of forgotten social groups are becoming increasingly distant from being able to fight for themselves. They are also far from being able to help themselves, if necessary, using the opportunities offered by our education system. I'll give you an example: we find a lot of rust zones, and unfortunately many families are looking forward to having a child reach the school commitment limit that the current government has delivered for 16 years, and then get into the public work programme and thus generate at least a few thousand HUF's income for their own family. This is unacceptable. I think, Mr State Secretary, we can agree that these children, young adults to be, will only recreate the misery of their own families. [[20.50]] We therefore need a labour market that can reward the effort, we need the heads of people who are educated from the education system to leave, and we also need not to have social groups where there are large numbers of people who are forced to bring their own children's heads into the yoke with a noble simplicity and then push them to the fate that they themselves need, namely that they are somehow trying to make a living out of the very low income of the public work programme. This is not acceptable at all and is not a XXI. 100th-century career model. We would welcome the conclusion of wage and productivity agreements at sectoral level between trade unions and employers' organisations and the extension of the system of collective agreements to the majority of sectors. The disadvantage of today's wage system is the low level, the unequal structure and the feeling that I am not making progress. This is true in many cases, and this is the case, for example, on the issue of the fact that there is still a very large pay gap between men and women in our country. For equal pay for equal work, the central government must do so. Unfortunately, this is not happening in Hungary at the moment, and we are increasingly seeing that the current Hungarian government is not really targeting this otherwise Europe-wide target group. It can't be that 50 percent of society is discriminated against. Speaking of which, I would like to mention that, of course, it is in the interests of all of us to increase the growth of the Hungarian nation and to have as many children as possible, but at the moment there is a great deal of research about the fact that childbearing in Hungary is a poverty risk factor. It's a drama. I started this speech by saying that a lot of people cannot benefit from this 4,6 percent increase in GDP, and part of that is that there are fortunate social groups that are helping to start a family, build a nest, at the same time, Mr State Secretary, I have to say that a lot of people do not, and some people would otherwise not need help, but they would need equal treatment and equal dignity in this country in practice, and then they would be able to generate enough income for their own families and provide their children with an adequate level of care. Now, that's what we can't find in this country right now, and the 2019 budget hasn't been able to guarantee either in its approach or in its practice what I'm talking about. The year 2019 was a good year from a financial point of view, and here I turn to the minority opinion expressed by the Parliament's Committee on Sustainable Development, but at the same time the funding for environmental protection was reduced, which is simply not acceptable. During a period of acceleration of climate change and a drastic loss of biodiversity, a responsible government could basically be expected to have a climate strategy that I have been talking about over the last few minutes so that it can provide not only material, not only economic, but also financial stability, but also a type of stability in which we can believe that there will also be clean air, clean drinking water, sufficient clean energy, a better use of renewable energy sources in this country for future generations, the right rates in our energy policy. Because we need to talk about the fact that I know that nuclear power plants are currently considered by today's Hungarian government to be a sustainable energy source and almost a green energy source, but you are in a major debate with the current opposition. I have to say that some concrete examples are very good at how this government stands for sustainable development in the environmental sense. The health of the Hungarian population has been abnormally poor in international comparison for years, the Hungarian population gets sick younger and dies sooner than the majority of European countries and can expect less healthy years of life. Unfortunately, this can be traced back to air pollution, and also to the fact that our environmental strategy is inadequate, but thus the mortality rate per million inhabitants in Hungary, due to environmental impacts, is abnormally high, higher than our economic development would require or would be appropriate, since there are such statistics. It would have been imperative to finally be free from disease and death-related asbestos affecting hundreds of thousands of people, making indoor air of residential houses and many other workplaces unhealthy. This was not part of the government's plan, nor did it suspend this program for ten years. The implementation of the national environmental remediation programme has also been suspended for a long time and does not allow it to be implemented. The government would be responsible for climate policy and, in particular, for recognising that we are a sensitive country, a country that needs a lot of steps to catch up with its fellow Western Europeans. You need to be able to relate to this subject in an integrated and conceptual way. In particular, the government is not responding to the challenges of the present era, and this is equally true of its social policy and its climate policy. For this reason, opposition members of the Committee on Sustainable Development cannot accept the 2019 discharge law either, nor do the opposition members of the Committee on Enterprise Development. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-16-304	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-16-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I present the minority opinions expressed in the Committee on Agriculture and Economic Affairs, I will tell you how I myself put it at the Committee on Budgets. In fact, when we discussed the 2019 discharge in the general debate in plenary, we heard a hurrah-optimist report that has been characterised by your governance for years now. On the other hand, I drew attention to the fact that on 13 October 2019 there was a multimillion-dollar poll. At the time, millions of Hungarians decided that your governance and economic policy were not appropriate. At this municipal election, cities and especially the capital were elected to lead settlements with opposition leadership. This is not a coincidence, it should teach you and heed the warnings that we speak from the opposition benches to you. What we see is that in small settlements, where they have practically developed an addictive relationship between mayors and pro-government MPs through the Hungarian village, it determines the position of the people, and voters are practically living in an alternate reality. All they hear from the public media is that all hurrah, good, everything is evolving, no problem. Then, in the years of the crisis, we see that there are problems and that it could have been saved from 2019. It could have been reserved that when these difficult times came, there would have been money to raise wages, health care, education, and finally to help people who needed it. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would first like to present the minority opinion expressed in the Committee on Agriculture. Reckless spending, unnecessary things, with serious consequences. I think this sentence says everything about what the budget figures show in 2019. Year 19 was a good year from a financial point of view, but the government didn't reserve it. There was no resources for development in education and the social sphere, and there was no sufficient funds to strengthen small businesses producing on the domestic market, as there would always be room for resources. The funding for environmental protection has been reduced, which is quite simply outrageous. We would have been affected differently by the crisis, by a more stable, crisis-resistant economy, society and the public sector, if you had spent so much money on unnecessary investment, for these purposes. The social sector, the municipal sector and the protection of our resources have also been left out. [[21.00]] Nothing other than the general government deficit has been achieved from the main budget figures. The government still does not seem to take the importance of environmental protection and sustainable agriculture seriously. The development of rural networks was also well below the planned data and the previous year's data. This makes it more difficult for rural areas that are already in a more difficult economic situation. It would be very important for the rural agricultural network to be built up in order to provide farmers with the infrastructure resulting therefrom. Many environmentally important expenditures are missing that would be needed to create sustainable agriculture. Greater emphasis should have been placed on improving the situation of small farmers, supporting short supply chains and any steps to improve the situation of rural farmers and the economy. You didn't do this in 2019, and as we can see, neither did you in 2020. I would now like to present the minority opinion expressed in the Economic Committee. It has been a recurring problem in the budget for years that without knowledge of economic data, it is presented well in advance by the government, so it acts as a basic fiscal tip-off game and not as a real budget. This can also be seen in the case of the current accounts. One of the major problems of the 2019 closure is the reduction in the share of welfare expenditure in the budget. For welfare functions such as education, health care and social security, 57.8 percent of public finances were spent in 2018, which decreased to 56.2 percent by 19 percent. Thus, the resources spent on education and health have also been reduced. The decline in welfare expenditure rates is also spectacular because this has been done in addition to an increase in tax revenues. This reduction also meant that a number of strategies, overall objectives, had not been achieved in 2019, which would otherwise have been necessary. As a result, the reinforcement of the social safety net was also lacking. In the area of health, the government has not implemented significant structural changes in both primary and specialised care and has not solved the problems of the funding of the practice of dentists, and there has also been a lack of increase in the salary of law enforcement workers. Well, we see what you didn't do and what you did. Significant resources have been allocated to government communication, prestige investments and support for government-led cities. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-16-306	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Péter Benő Banai, whether he wants to take his time to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] At the end. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Alexov Lyubomir, a Serbian ethnic advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2020-11-16-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Odbora za narodnosti u Maddarskoj i u svoje ime Vas s poštovanjem pozdravljam! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and on behalf of myself, I welcome you. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is T/13098 on the implementation of Act L of 2018 on Hungary's Central Budget for 2019. The detailed discussion of bill No 10/2014 on certain house rules. OGY Decision 44-45. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Union has carried out its duties. The committee, examining the bill, concluded that it complied with the House Rules Decision No 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the bill, nor did the Committee intend to make any further amendments. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 28 October 2020. In drawing up the budget for 2019 and in the political decision on the total amount of appropriations, the Parliament took into account the opinions and reasons of the national minority committee and accepted our requests for an increase in funding for the financial year 2019. The increase in funding for the 2019 budget year was aimed at increasing the investment, renovation and tendering share of the buildings and works of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain, increasing the national minority authorities and media support, increasing the operating support of the institutions maintained by the national authorities, implementing the second step of the national minority educator programme, increasing the tendering framework and, finally, increasing the operating support of local minority authorities. In the 2019 budget year, 27,000 pre-school children who received national minority education, 85 thousand young children who received primary and secondary education, i.e. 112 thousand children who received national minority education and education, were also provided with education and education of nationality, which was also linked to the enlargement of the national minority educator programme and to the investment and development resources available for institutional building stocks. National education is the basis for maintaining our diverse and valuable traditions and continuing to enrich the country and the everyday life of Europe as a whole. Overall, the 13 nationalities native to our country were provided with the necessary resources for culture in the 2019 budget year. These resources have facilitated the balanced functioning of national minority institutions. The provision of budget support has contributed to the survival of Hungarian nationalities in Hungary. On this basis, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes to adopt the bill. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-11-16-308	Thank you for Alexov Lyubomir's speech on the Serbian minority. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I don't see a speaker on the display. [[This is Dániel Z. Carpathian.]] But now I've got it. Mr. Z. I give the floor to Daniel, a better representative.
u2020-11-16-309	Mr President, Dear House, I take advantage of the opportunity that one of the most prepared secretary of state represents the government in this debate, because there are more than just beliefs among us. Obviously, there will be questions that we cannot decide during this evening and in other debates, but that must be seen, and perhaps also recognised by the Secretary of State, that this accounts are certain that it is not acceptable that the underlying budget itself is not necessarily based on precise figures. Let us look at the differences between the budget and the budget in 2019, so let us say, even a few weeks before and between the reference period, like the German Parliament, when a man plans a budget six months earlier! As regards GDP growth, we were able to show a half-percent difference between the planned and the real. There is also a good difference in GDP value of HUF 3000 billion. So, with later planning, this would have been a problem that could have been excluded. The inflation was 3.4 percent instead of 2.7 percent, which was still a given in the planning process. The number of employees increased by 1 percent instead of 1.5 percent, which is also a good difference of tens of thousands. The increase in gross average earnings also shows a difference of 2-3 percent compared to the period of planning. [[21.10]] What is most brutal, Mr. Secretary of State, and although they are sitting, I ask you to hold on to it: compared to the rate of HUF 311.3 per euro at the time of planning, it was over 325 that we finally had to count on. And there are a lot of spill-over effects both in the budget and in any package in front of us, resulting from the weak and, in my opinion, consciously held low forint exchange rate. It can be seen, therefore, that in the spirit of predictability, it has not helped to plan a budget months or even six months earlier than the year would allow and, as the facts would be, to be found. We also see that although the revenues were underdesigned during the period concerned by the government, and more money came in than was calculated, this was managed to be wasted and spent until the last forint. Obviously, you can beat or spend it, often it's the seat point that determines the position here. But just because a situation such as a corona virus emergency is expected at any time, it might have made sense to manage these remaining amounts more responsibly. There is also a clear picture of government economic policy and family policy. Here, let me make a personal remark that I ask no one to be offended. With the rhetorically presented government economic policy and family policy, I can identify on a number of points. I can identify with a truly patriotic economic policy, a family and social policy that rightly highlighted the Hungarian demographic aspects, an economy that serves this. The problem, Mr Secretary of State, is that the numbers and actions behind the words show something quite different, a purely neoliberal economic policy that favours the lucky, the rich, from the upper middle class. This is roughly how the entire opposition side sees it. And obviously not because in dark smoky rooms at 11:00 p.m., we agree on what to say to you, but because all reasonable people see that Hungarian family politics does not simply open a discount mass for all needy people, but chooses one among them, and tries to favor it upward from the upper middle class, along with the old chemically pure neoliberal fantasy that these blessings will also flow down to the more difficult social groups. They never got down, they can't model like this all over the world. And let the numbers speak of what this government is generating. We see that most of the money comes from taxes linked to consumption, including VAT. Fidesz has been committed to this since 2010. It would even be vital to make workable income more accessible widely and in a proportionate manner. There are places where this applies, but there are social groups where it doesn't. What we see is that the VAT rate was wrongly raised from 20 to 25 per cent before 2010, and the Orbán governments did not start their reputation by allowing this 25 per cent back to a normal level, but by milking it by 2 per cent and producing 27 per cent of the EU record rate. This is why, at the end of the year covered by the closing accounts, more than HUF 4.5 000 billion of VAT was collected. Personal income tax follows this among the revenues by just a little more than half, so it's a little less than 2.5 thousand. However, what is chilling, Mr. Secretary of State and terrifying is what is missing from the budget, which is why it is missing from the accounts, because from corporate tax, profit tax, let us say among ourselves, there has been a pitifully low amount, 303 billion instead of the expected almost 400 billion. I understand that for the multinationals, they have basically turned Hungary into a tax haven. Because one-key corporate tax benefits who? For Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? Well, cutting the key gave them a discount of about 1 percent. Who did you get a real discount for? The government's strategic partners, the multi-companies that drive the profits generated here from Hungary in a thousand billion-dollar scale from the other side. Why don't you do it, Mr. Secretary, so you can at least take some of the money you made up? I must say that they would at least move towards public burdens, or they would say that I would give you an equestrian discount, but I expect two thirds of it to be wage development, wage planning or wage maintenance. None of that happened. Thus, Hungary is being exposed in a chemically pure neoliberal manner. The Prime Minister also made two arguments, not me, but the current Prime Minister of Hungary, at the Saudi Arabian conference, trying to seduce the working capital. One is considered to be a sufficiently low wage level and the other is considered to be a sufficiently flexible labour code. With these, the Prime Minister tried to expand Hungary's opportunities abroad. Well, it's kind of freaky between you and me. I think that in a nation state that gives itself something, it couldn't be that way, it couldn't stay that way. Compared to the very weak corporate tax revenue of around 300 billion, there is a Tao discount of HUF 244 billion which was validated by companies. As an athlete, as a sports friend, I say that the Tao needs radical reform at least, and while I support mass sports and competition sports at all levels, it is quite amazing that village stadiums, training centers, and others, are built out of Tao money in an opaque way. I'm pretty sure it's not acceptable that the same amount of money for building pyramids and hobbies, or almost as much money as it is for corporate tax. That's pretty amazing. This is not the image of a patriot economic policy. I am running out of time, as regards this speech and the time frame imposed on it, but it should also be noted that the changes in the amount of family support have been a very loyal reflection on how this government has managed families since 2010. Typically, the Cabinet advertises forms of support with a large voice that are relatively small in resources, so they can only benefit from a very narrow circle. An example of this is the release of mortgage loans for multi-children, which in 2019 only cost the government 5.5 billion in total, affected 5.6 billion in fact, i.e. relatively narrow layers. Similarly, forints 8 billion were earmarked for car shopping, and perhaps a similar amount for advertising and posters, and I do not exaggerate. The total volume of student loans was about half a billion forints. So you can put this on a billboard, you can tour the public media with it, but it affects a few thousand, one or two ten thousand people. How much would it have affected if, let's say, not only mothers with four children, but mothers with three children, were to introduce the full legal exemption? Well, that would have had a demographic dimension. That would have had family policy results. But you calculated it, it would've consumed more money, it couldn't have been made a tool of a political sorcery, so you didn't do it. Because of similar symptoms above, we cannot accept this overall accounts. Thank you for your opportunity and patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-310	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] There's no sign of anyone on the screen. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary, who indicated that he wanted to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2020-11-16-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me first thank the honourable Members of Parliament for their comments, not only today, but also for the discussions of the draft closing act at previous plenary and committee meetings. I think that these debates were certainly good at the fact that today could also be said from the opposition benches that the 4.6 percent increase last year must be recognised as a success. I think we can confirm that, yes, last year's economic processes and thus the budgetary processes were similar to those of previous years. Hungary was characterised by economic growth above the EU average in 2019, coupled with an increase in employment and wages, and, thanks to this, after many years, the general government deficit remained substantially below 3 per cent of GDP in 2019 and the debt ratio decreased. The criticisms that indicate these positive numbers in a negative way because we deviated from the preliminary plan, allow me, but I cannot accept them, and rather I think they are positive. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpá was a member of the Council of Members of the European Union of the European Union, who said that he was a sport-friendly person. Allow me, Congressman, to live with a sports metaphor. If a marathon runner says that in his opinion he can run the distance over a three-hour period, then many people say no, no, no, he can't do that, he can run the marathon in no more than three and a half hours and then run the marathon, but not in three hours, but in two hours and 40 minutes, then this marathon runner is usually applauded. [[21.20]] They applaud him even if he can achieve his preliminary commitment, which they doubted, but if he overachiever, these athletes are generally more recognized. I respectfully ask the Parliament to take a look at the views expressed by the opposition benches in the debate on the draft budget law for 2019. These views were that this growth, which the government is counting on, would not be realistic at 4.1 percent. And now we're being criticised for not 4.1 percent, but 4.6 percent of the economy's growth. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The congressman also mentioned other factors. Let me tell you that the increase in gross average earnings was 11.4 per cent instead of the 8.8 per cent plan number. The increase in the number of employees in the competitive sector was 2 per cent instead of 1.9 per cent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] No doubt in the public sector, instead of a 0.3 percent decline, it dropped by 3.8 percent, why? Because more and more people have been able to move from public works to those employed in the competitive sphere. The congressman mentioned the exchange rate. We all know that the forint is floating freely, so its course is determined by current market demand. This, by the way, as a Member State of the European Union, I think it is right, and we all know that joining the euro area as an EU Member State is a duty and not an option for the new Member States; it is another thing when this accession will take place, but the point is that the exchange rate, forint/euro, is floating freely. The economic policy, which, in my view, has, in recent years and thus in 2019, created, overall, positive real economic processes and, in particular, favourable employment and wage conditions, I would not describe it as a purely neoliberal economic policy indicator. Of course, as many of us analyse economic policy, so many assessments can be given, but, Congressman, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that economists who consider this purely neoliberal economic policy or follow the principle of lassez-faire do not think that the state should play a strong role in market processes. As part of such a pure neoliberal economic policy, I have never seen an economic policy where, for example, the State would have actively participated in the provision of public services. I didn't see any steps in which, let's say, official prices would have been welcomed in a neoliberal economic policy as a reduction in overhead costs. I have not seen a chemically pure neoliberal economic policy where it would be welcomed that certain economic operators, SMEs, or certain economic groups, families, have a different set of rules for the state than for enterprises or social groups that regard everyone as homogeneous. Just as I think, bank tax or sectoral taxes introduced in 2010 under crisis management measures are not really part of chemically pure neoliberal economic policy. It is enough to point out that, let us say, these economic steps are assessed by the IMF, the credit rating agencies, other organisations to which the neoliberal economic policy which the Member mentions is closer. Among the facts of the closing accounts, the Member also pointed out that the total income of the corporate tax was lower than the originally planned thank you for pointing this out by the Member. You're right, it was a little less substantial, but why? Because during the year, the government proposed, on the basis of economic developments, that the corporate tax charge should be abolished, that companies should pay taxes on the basis of factual data. This was supported unanimously by the companies, and the closing accounts before you show that the deficit target was met in a substantial amount of less than 3 per cent, and that the most significant debt ratio in recent years has been reduced. I would remind everyone that, at the end of last year, the debt ratio under the EU methodology was 65.4 percent, there was a reduction of nearly 4 percentage points, and it was far from the level of 80 per cent, which marked the country in 2010. The Member also said that wages are one of the biggest attractions for investment in Hungary, the Prime Minister told foreign investor groups that it is worth coming to Hungary, because wages are low. Allow me two things, Congressman, in this regard. The closing account before you, where the wage numbers, if I understand correctly, were criticised by the Member, just shows that wages have increased more than previously calculated. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Mr President, not only gross wages, net wages and real wages. (Daniel Z. Carpathian intervention) What we are talking about is that this increase in wages is in agreement with you from what base you started, let's look at the pay gap in recent years, let's look at the economics opinion of the previous year, let's say, neoliberal opinions, but also other opinions: they were afraid of the Hungarian economy of wage growth, they said that there was a wage dynamic at the expense of efficiency, and productivity could not keep up. I can tell the Honourable Parliament that if we compare wages in Hungary and their growth with productivity change, it is still worth it for investors to come to Hungary and see this, and it is worth it because there is a tax environment, there are infrastructure improvements that make investment here effective. It is no coincidence that the inflow of foreign capital in 2019 was also very significant. With regard to the criticisms of the Member, and with this, if I may, I will also turn to the points raised by Congresswoman Bősz Anett, namely that there are measures that may be selective, here the Member mentioned the waiver of mortgage loans for families with multiple children and the purchase of cars, and I can respectfully say that these are typically measures that are uniform and uniform in access to all families. The amount of housing loans and mortgage loans taken over by the State is independent of the income of the recipients, depending only on the number of children, just like the car purchase allowance. And at this point, I must argue with Mrs Anett Bősz, who, at the beginning of her speech, thank you again for the positive words that there is a distribution dispute between the opposition and the government, because this economic policy leaves many people on the side of the road, if I quote correctly, the Member spoke of forgotten social groups. Support for car shopping is typically an institution that is available to all, in the context of family protection measures or in the context of mortgage credit. I often hear that the family discount is available to the better. With all due respect, in the case of gross income of less than HUF 310 thousand in a family and the education of three children, full family tax relief is available. In 2019, gross earnings per capita were substantially above this level. If one of the two earners earned a minimum wage and the other was guaranteed a minimum wage, they could benefit fully from this discount. But just because of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase, in 2020 if both of the two earners in one family were employed at minimum wage and raised three children, they could make maximum use of the family benefits. I am therefore arguing with the findings made by Mrs Anett Bősz with regard to the forgotten social groups in terms of wages. The congresswoman also said that there is a lease dynamic, but those employed in the state are left out of it. Then let me say that inflation was 3.4 per cent in 2019 and the average wage increase in public sector employees was 10 per cent. But if we look at, say, the year 2018, then I will also draw the Member's attention to the fact that the wage increase for those employed in the public sector was higher than the average for the national economy, obviously higher than for those employed in the private sector. I agree that we still have a task, and there are areas in the public sector where it would be good to raise more wages, but I remind everyone that the government's commitment was to carry out wage increases in the public sector in line with economic growth, in line with the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy and public finances. As a critic, I heard from Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi that the law enforcement workers were left out of the wage increase. [[21.30]] Congresswoman! You know very well that in 2015 the government decided on a 50 percent wage increase, most of which was achieved in 2015 and the last rate was achieved in 2019. The congresswoman said that education, health care, had less support, if I remember correctly, was looking for an indicator that expressed this criticism in terms of education, health and welfare functions as a percentage of total public expenditure. For the sake of fact, let me give you absolute numbers, and you can also look into real change. Total education expenditure at general government level: HUF 2271 billion in 2018 and HUF 2312 billion in 2019. Health: HUF 1786.3 billion in 2018, HUF 1915.2 billion in 2019. Social security and welfare services: approximately HUF 5600 billion in 2018 and more than HUF 5900 billion in 2019. There has been significant nominal growth, with significant real growth in many areas. There was no doubt that there were areas where there was an even greater increase in public spending, such as economic functions, which, let's say, could not be achieved in a pure neoliberal economic policy. With the statement that Mrs Anett Bősz said that education is one of the ways of social inclusion, I fully agree. If I may, Congresswoman, I would like to say, as a cliché, education and work. Both are areas where, I think, we were able to make progress in 2019. We talked about work, we talked about wages. Allow me, Congresswoman, to say that the number of public workers has fallen. You said that a lot of people were forced into public employment. Thank God, even in 2019, more and more public workers were able to enter the competition sector and gain more income thanks to the increasing minimum wage, guaranteed minimum wage. So all labour market measures, I think, have led everyone to move forward in their own lives, both in terms of education, such as the introduction of second vocational training free of charge, and the various training programmes have served to achieve greater income with greater skills. I would also like to respond to the comments made by Mrs Anita Kőrösi. The Congresswoman said that the government did not reserve, that it needed a more stable economic policy to prepare for the crisis. If it had been up to the opposition and allow it, Congresswoman, this is not a political comment, that is a fact, if it had been up to the opposition, there would have been no reserves in either the 2019 Budget Act or the 2020 Budget Act. So much for maintenance. In the year 2020, when an unforeseen health crisis struck the entire world economy, including the European Union and Hungary, I think it was just in time that, on the one hand, our real economy today is much more crisis-resistant than the figures of ten years ago, but also the budget prepared for a situation with the planned deficit of 1 percent and with a reserve of 1 percent of GDP on which the majority of Parliament decided to leave this reserve. Let me tell the Honourable Parliament that the sum of HUF 378 billion of the National Defence Fund was still available when resources for health protection had to be transferred. We have presented to the Honourable Parliament the amounts we have spent on defence. There was, thank God, and thank God, there is confidence in the Hungarian economy today, which makes all expenditure possible to finance in the context of a significantly increasing deficit and debt. And we are working to bring back the economic processes that marked the country in 2019 after this transitional year. Finally, allow me to conclude with thanks. Although the 2019 Budget Law proposal was made in the spring, we wanted to strengthen predictability, but I think that this early budget has stood on its feet overall, since this budget has not yet had to be amended in the course of the year. Similarly, no amendments from honourable Members or from the Committee have been submitted to the draft closing act. I therefore conclude from this overall that, even if there are debates on the economic policy to be pursued, both the opposition and the governing parties consider that this closing proposal was not only in line with the legislation, but also as a whole a real picture of the economic and public finances processes of 2019. Thank you very much for listening to me, and I warmly recommend the closing proposal to be adopted later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-16-312	Thank you, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/13258. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. They have a total of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee, for a maximum period of eight minutes.
u2020-11-16-313	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 12 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13258 amending certain tax laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear House, The bill includes, inter alia, amendments to the general sales tax, excise duty, corporate tax and personal income tax, along with legislative harmonisation objectives. A counter-measure against countries on the European Union's blacklist of companies will be introduced from 1 January 2021. In order to ensure that the rule is as administrative as possible for Hungarian companies, the provisions on controlled foreign companies are tightened to a lesser extent. According to the amendment, if the status as controlled foreign company arises in relation to an undertaking in the State on the blacklist, the provisions on quantitative exceptions cannot be applied. With this, we comply with EU standards, but we do not create unnecessary additional obligations for Hungarian entrepreneurs. The most significant change in the VAT legislation is the transposition of the e-commerce package, which leads to significant changes overall. For Hungary, the new rules are favourable, and we expect them to increase the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and increase tax revenues. The amendments shall apply from 1 July 2021. [[21.40]] Dear Parliament, One of the key pillars of the bill is the personal income tax exemption for epidemiological screening. In view of the emerging epidemic situation, the proposal also identifies as income free of personal income tax the case where the paying agent provides the individual with any form of epidemiological screening. The proposal sets the tax exemption irrespective of the date on which the investigation was carried out, so it is not necessary to establish taxable income even if, during the period of the first wave of the new type of coronal virus epidemic, a screening test has been carried out for private individuals in addition to the financing of the paying agent. The test paid by employers to employees is still exempt. In view of what has been said, the proposal should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-16-314	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Törő. The minority opinion will now be presented in a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2020-11-16-315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In our view, the tax system must be socially fairer than it is today. To this end, we consider it necessary to introduce differentiated personal income tax in such a way that eight out of ten employees pay less or equal to the current tax and that the rate of income below average income should be lower than the corporate income tax. The system where the largest companies in Hungary virtually do not pay profit taxes and that multinational companies benefit from domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises should be eliminated. We also said in the Commission's debate that because of the amazing increase in food prices, there is a need for all basic foods to fall under the VAT rate of 5% in Hungary. This proposal does not solve the problems on which the MSZP has proposed a solution, as well as opposition parties, and it can be seen that they are withdrawing new powers from the local authorities, and they are now taking away their tax authorities' duties, without, of course, asking those involved, without their will. Since the majority of tax reliefs are too little or too late, they are devolved from the municipalities and therefore the proposal cannot be supported in this form. In the Commission's debate, I personally pointed out that the Economic Committee had tabled an amendment, which included that sports clubs receiving Tao money could now benefit from the aid because it had not yet been included in the aid scheme for protective equipment, masks, rubber gloves, protective clothing, testing and health care. We find it outrageous that this was once again the first time on the part of the government, how, so to speak, football players could be supported again. Interestingly, families in need, families with children still do not have access to them. I didn't ask them to get these protective equipment for free, but we took several initiatives to get the government to intervene against the unfair price competition, and let's say a mask doesn't go back to 300 plus 200 forints, but, let's say, let's go back there and I know that everyone in the world is struggling to buy a mask for, say, 6 forints in January. But if we could do it for 60 forints, that would be fine. Make sure the Hungarian families also have the free test for the employees! I think that there are people ahead of football players in Hungary today: the health workers, the first-line participants in the defense, teachers, social workers, even the Hungarian families, and the Hungarian families who have children. Allow me, because today was interesting, and it belongs to the tax law, and I don't want to comment anymore, I don't want to waste time, so today it turns out that brandy is one of the basic foods. We've become smarter again today by Prime Minister. We didn't know that. Now we know why 86 liters can now be boiled, so to speak, free of tax to a family. I would add that this is an ongoing topic for the opposition and the ruling party to be exempt from tax in Hungary, which is the most important. I don't have a problem with that yet, Mr. Secretary. I have a problem with quantity. 86 liters. Did you guys ever say this number to a family of 86 liters? By the way, I don't know how much you guys drink, although it turns out you must be a lot, because you consider brandy to be a basic food. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] Then I assume you've done a lot. And now we understand the tax exemption of this brandy and the quantity of liters. It's just, you know, I don't think that's the most important thing. We have often initiated both by the Hungarian Socialist Party and by the opposition to lower the VAT on basic foods to 5%. Now, when the surveys show that more than 40 percent of the families are in a worse financial situation because of the Covid epidemic, and these were still the spring figures, we were nowhere near the current epidemic, and that will lead to more brutal numbers, that if we get past the second wave, it is now more important for you to pay the taxes on brandy than the taxes on basic foods. I think there's a difference in values between us, and that's all we wanted to draw attention to. If we can take care of football players, we can take care of the pálinkaivos, so to speak, then I think we should take care of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families much sooner on the part of the government. So, knowing these things, on our part, this amendment did not support us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-16-316	Thank you, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Norbert Izer, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. It indicates that at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. Preliminary speakers are not present, so I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2020-11-16-317	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Not repeating what I said in the general debate, but I would like to highlight one thing. We've had an argument about Kata, and you said to this plus penalty tax that it's not even a penalty tax, it's a cautious, elegant and balancing tax that you're about to introduce from 2021. The bill on the basis of which the budget is based has published this legislation, and it is now being improved a little in terms of income from abroad, but we can see that this will not affect much of the budget. The Minister of State has already said that this is necessary because the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has specifically proposed this, the Chamber of Industry, the chairman of which, László Parragh's latest mental illness, is the suspension of the business tax for one year in the municipalities. So that's what's considered an expert opinion for you. It is not what the Association of Entrepreneurs thinks, and what they think about the dikes, the tens of thousands of ditches that will be affected by this will fall away from orders, because the 40 percent tax over HUF 3 million, you know, we know, the entrepreneurs know, and the clients know that they will transfer it to entrepreneurs. So their income will be reduced and further steps will be taken to repel most of these forced businesses into the grey and black economy. I believe you've done all sorts of calculations, that this will only affect a piece of mint, because according to the statements, you've calculated it. That would be okay if it weren't in the tax law right now, in the cadastral law, that the tax authority would check whether this was a hidden employment relationship. Well, here we go. I tabled an amendment. If you want to take this measure in any event, increase this threshold to at least HUF 6 million, and help those katás entrepreneurs who are in this situation will at least be able to breathe from 2021 that they will not be affected by this penalty tax, because to say that this tax is cautious, elegant and balancing, it is simply amazing. [[21.50]] And here we are, at the last opportunity of the tax law, during the debate, and for tomorrow's plenary session, I asked for reservations in the vote on this amendment, and I trust, Mr Secretary, that they will finally hear the voice of the entrepreneurs, and not listen to the voice of László Parragh, for whom nothing else matters but to destroy the municipal system, nicely the entrepreneurs. So I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State, I think, for the third time or so, on the same subject, why the government does not change its mind and at least why it does not double this limit. Believe me, I'd make it easy for a lot of entrepreneurs from 2021. That's what you're supposed to do. There is a covidous situation, entrepreneurs suffer, and quite simply this penalty tax will cause them to suffer more. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-11-16-318	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-11-16-319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of the late date, I will try not to take advantage of the time frame, but I will try to respond to the suggestions. Although we are debating the same subject for the third time, I think that it is worth saying the government position a third time, because I see that these positions are not approaching. I would like to respond to the three points raised by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Differentiated tax system: we see this proposal many times, which tax increases, what tax differentiation, what multi-band key should be introduced in sja and other income taxes. I believe that one of the greatest competitive advantages of the Hungarian tax system is that it is simple, transparent and that the single-key tax system has fulfilled the expectations attached to it. As much as we look at international practices, we see everywhere that the single-key tax system simplifies the rules a lot, is easy, transparent, taxpayers can adapt to it. And when we talk about a multi-key tax system, there is always a key change to business income I don't know, so taxpayers adapt to the key. Wherever there's a key change, there's always an adjustment. What we see is that wherever there is a key, any income tax system we look at internationally, everywhere around the key, performance stops. So either the workers hold back their jobs or the entrepreneurs stop at certain levels. So, for every multi-key tax system, this is what we face, so that we are likely to reduce performance there. I think that the Hungarian tax system is extremely competitive and beneficial in this respect, and that it does not burden the extra work, so we do not punish someone who wants to work more. We have a proportionate, uniform tax system. If someone makes twice as much money, they pay twice as much. I think that this is easy to see and a tax system that has fulfilled its expectations. It is also clear that tax revenues can continue to increase, however, in order to reduce income taxes. We are also a social tax player in the EU, and we are able to keep the tax revenues nicely, because we see that these tax revenues are being paid by businesses, and we can continue to reduce the level of the black economy. I think that we have been able to achieve global results in VAT by having an EU-average taxation and, in terms of income taxes, I think that there is a very good efficiency with regard to the Hungarian tax system. The tax benefits of multinationals have also been mentioned. Here I would refer back to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa's comment in the previous debate that the tax relief of the multinationals was when we dropped the tax rate to 9 percent. Let me remind you that 19 percent were the key to corporate tax in previous years. We were able to do this reduction in two steps. So at the end of the day, everyone, including the little ones, the big ones, had a nine percent tao key. The fact that the little ones did this before, I think it's good news. So I'd like to say this negative, that the little ones got the tax cut first, and the big ones got the tax cut later, and I think that we should take this the other way around, that we could help the little ones first, that we dropped the tax rate to 10%, and then the big ones to 9 percent in one step, which the little ones also got. I think that's what's really worth telling you about the tax advantage of multinationals. I would like to link here to an amending proposal and to an amendment that is likely to be voted on in the current tax package, and this is the rule of the development reserve. The development reserve works in such a way that an entrepreneur who makes a profit can set aside, where appropriate, a reserve for future years. If an investment is to be carried out in the following year, it will not have to pay off this reserve in the profitable year, but will use it when it is able to carry out that investment. Technically, the point of this development reserve is that we are trying to reinvest profits and keep them here in the country. Therefore, this development reserve has been raised in three steps, and this year's change is that it has no upper limit. So a very effective, let's say, whether it is a multi- and international company, which invests in Hungary, has received a very strong motivation to leave this profit here in Hungary. I think that is exactly what Congressman was looking for, how we can take measures to keep profits in the country. I think that one of the most useful and effective measures in tax and tax administrations is this development reserve, the limit of which has now been abolished, so only the positive result is the limit. The question of VAT was also mentioned in the speech of Mrs Bangóné. Once again, many debates have said how many steps have been taken to reduce VAT on basic foods. I think that we have shown a lot of times that it is always worth doing these VAT cuts in a very targeted and very focused way, because the VAT rate does not basically determine the prices, and we have said this many times. Where we see that the market makes this possible, where there is a market that is more affected by black jobs or black farming, we have been able to take these measures. I also think that we have achieved very good results. As regards the exemption of brandy, I would also like to clarify here in the Legislative Committee that it is the brandy that can be traded. There is VAT on the pálinka, excise duty on the pálinka, and public health product tax on the pálinka. So pálinka is a highly taxed product. What we can produce from our own fruit at home is indeed not subject to any tax because it is for our own consumption. That's the example I gave you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] It's like brewing jams that are not traded for their own consumption, it can't be sold, and I think it's a very important condition that it's for its own consumption. The 86 liters, which, in your opinion, is outrageous, have been 86 liters for years, so the rules in force today can be cooked at a reduced rate at home. The change is that at EU level this preferential tax option has now been reduced to zero. So the change in this direction makes it possible to cook this free of charge now, but the reduced quantity has not increased by one litre compared to what is currently in force and which has been in force for years. In answer to Anita Kőrösi's question, we did not change our mind about the cat. I think that perhaps one of the longest debates on the rules of the kata was here in Parliament, and I can see that, even to this day, there are still a lot of requests in the press about how this measure should be amended, but these proposals always come from the feathers of a well-defined professional organisation, who resent the goodness of this change. On the other hand, a very broad social and very broad professional consultation preceded this debate. The fact that President Parragh came out of the sudden idea of this measure, I have also pointed out earlier that this amendment was preceded by more than one and a half years of professional consultation. There were at least 12 different proposals on the agenda, and I think that we have analysed very carefully how it works, who will be affected, and what movements there are with regard to the use of the kata. It should also be noted that more than half of the catalogs have come from employment in recent years. So it is clear that the cata has a tax advantage that already sucks workers out of the world of work. I think there is a tax advantage here that has never been the intention of the legislator. I believe that we are now trying to redirect this legislative intention or try to redirect the use of rules back to the original legislative intention. It is also very important to note that the most important thing is that small dictionaries selling to the population, who really serve five to ten customers on a daily basis, who have a relatively large administrative burden, do not issue one bill in a month, say, from HUF 1 million, but come in every day for a guest, say, a haircut, or a beautician or a masseur, I think that their activity should be supported with the minimum tax burden and the minimum administrative burden. [[22.00]] Therefore, the current change of rule specifically encourages that this circle, who issues many small-value invoices, should not pay more than one forint this year, and should not have a minute more tax administration than this year. I think that we have come up with the best possible targeted amendment together with the profession, together with the Chamber, which will encourage precisely that circle with a slightly higher tax burden not to necessarily find an alternative to work in this tax type. I maintain that I think that this is an elegant balancing tax. Under a penalty tax, many would think that this is a tax that prohibits activity because it is no longer possible to carry out the activity. In the last detailed debate, I showed a percentage of the tax burden, say, at HUF 3 million, at four, at five, at six, at twelve, and it appears that this twenty-something tax burden rises to 26 percent. So the kata is also burdened with a tax wedge of around 26 per cent at HUF 12 million, as opposed to, say, the tax wedge of the wage of 40 per cent. So I was trying to show you that the catalog is even better than 12 million forints, even more than 20 million forints. So it is not a matter of introducing a tax measure that makes it impossible for them to do so, in fact in the spring we took a tax measure that makes the burden at some level more correct and encourages entrepreneurs to do so in an employment relationship or in an order relationship. By the way, this is also in the fundamental interest of workers, because then they will have a pension, a pension, the security provided by the Labour Code, which cannot be guaranteed in an entrepreneurial life. I would also like to thank you once again for the subsidies on the government side, and we also received a lot of positive comments during the detailed debate, and I also warmly recommend that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-16-320	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Fidesz's representative, Zoltán Fenyvesi, applied for a post-meeting speech:, God bless the 750-year-old Káptalantóti! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In the Tapolca Basin, a few kilometers from Lake Balaton, at the foot of Tóti Hill, the Cáptalantóti, which holds nearly 500 souls, is in the embrace of the witness mountains. The settlement is now known for its producer market, but it was actually known for its vineyards and quality wines belonging to the Badacsony wine region. In his name, the pre-member of the village was related to the fact that at one time the village was owned by the Győrian cabbage. The origin of the name "Tóti" was probably created by the popular name of the lake belonging to the southern Slavic, Slovenian, Croatian ethnic group. The village of the two parts, the upper, later Káptalantóti and the lower, later Nemestoti, was united in 1848, i.e. Nemestoti merged into Káptalantóti. The settlement was first mentioned in documents in 1270. The patron saint of his church is St. Martin, but the medieval building is destroyed and its ruins are still visible on Mount Sabar. The village's population lived on vine cultivation. Káptalantóti was burned several times by the Turks, his inhabitants fled from fighting and taxes, and later returned, and the village was resettled. It is still the tradition that the people ran through the river basin through the village during a Turkish raid to the west of the village into a reeded, watery bush, so that the enemy could not even find a trace of his foot. Felsőtóti was destroyed in the time of homage, and was not rebuilt. According to the census of the nobles from 1738, 21 noble families lived in Nemestoti, in Káptalantóti, on the estate of the Chaplain there lived 17 serfs. Only after the exorcism of the Turk, the 18th. The parish will come back to life in the century. The Roman Catholic church, still standing today, was built between 1765 and 73 in Baroque style. His altar picture shows Bishop St. Martin. Although the church stood for a long time without a tower, bells were already mentioned in 1745. At this point, the only bell depends on a wooden bell, but ten years later, two are mentioned. World War I fate was also avoided by the bells of Lake Tato, and after the war, they got three new bells. During World War II, one was taken, and the village currently has two bells. The quiet rural life was radically disturbed by the First World War. Most of the village's male population was called to the distant battlefields by the ruthless command, the memorial set up in the cemetery preserves the names of 29 heroes. The crest of Káptalantót is a so-called narrative crest, since it tells the name of the village. It has crowns, mountains, vineyards, plowshares and twigs. In the coat of arms, the name "tooth" is represented by the conical basalt mountain situated south of the village. The plow and gorros under the mountain come from the original seal of the village, the vineyards represent the famous wines of the village. The crown on the shield roof comes from the coat of arms of Zala County, as the village belonged for a long time to this county. Not only is his past worthy of recognition, not only is his history significant, but his present and his future encouraging. It's nice to see the clean streets, the neat dust, the building of family houses. The village is beautiful, it is developing, its inhabitants feel the village, they are proud of their settlement as local patriots. Winemakers working on the surrounding mountains can not only find a livelihood in the vineyards, but also enjoy the fact that quality Balatonfelvidék wines are a popular and happy drink of tourists. We thank the settlement for the protection of the historical past and the Hungarian Christian European culture for seven and a half centuries. I wish that the inhabitants of Káptalantóti and those working in the surrounding vineyards will find their prosperity and happiness in the centuries to come. God bless the 750-year-old Chaptalantoti and its inhabitants. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for being with me after 10:00.
u2020-11-16-322	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi. Dear Parliament, At the same time, MEP Zsófia Koncz, representative of Fidesz, asked to speak after the agenda with the title "The Four Banding of the 37th Highway." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-16-323	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In my first speech, I have a very important milestone to report to my fellow Members and to all Hungarian people. The 20-year-old dream of people living in my constituency is now coming true, since the Hungarian government is 1745-2020 on 11 November 2020. in its resolution on the four lanes of road 37 between Keszthely and Szerencs. 1745-2020. this is only a few digits for many, or just another government decision of hundreds, but for us it is much more than that. This decision is the way to progress and the way to long-term success. In addition to becoming safer and faster to transport a narrower Patriam, it will also open up new horizons for tourism and job creation, and for future generations there will be more opportunities in the long term than ever. However, the road to this point was rather rugged, which I would now like to sum up in a few sentences. My father, Ferenc Koncz, started lobbying 20 years ago in order to expand the road 37 connecting with Zemplén into four lanes, thus making the surrounding settlements, including Tokajhegyalja, available in a shorter time and reducing the number of road accidents by magnitude. At the time of the first Orbán government, it was already included in the package on road development, but unfortunately, after the change in government in 2002, this was off the agenda. During the 2002-2006 term, my father presented a proposal for an amendment to the Parliamentary Assembly and then indirectly several times between 2006 and 2010 in order to allocate the necessary funds for planning, but the majority of the left-wing government voted against it. However, the change of government in 2010 gave me hope again, and the new situation gave me the opportunity to renew and expand Highway 37. The 2011 Government Decision on the long-term development programme of the motorway and main road network was included as a key road for the period from 2025 to 2027. [[22.10]] It gave our lobbying a new impetus when my father was once again a Member of Parliament in the elections in 2018, and then we came to the first really important step. On 8 May 2019, at the press conference of the Hungarian Road, my father announced that, thanks to the government's decision, the main road 37 will be lashed from purely state resources, well before the originally planned deadline. During the investment six bridges above the existing watercourse will be broken down and a new reinforced concrete bridge will be built and three new roundabouts will be built. A new roundabout and a new measuring point will be built at the junction of the 38 roads leading to the Nyíregyháza 37 and the Tokaj, as well as the transfer of bicycle traffic. As a second major step, Minister László Palkovics confirmed in Szerencs on 5 October 2020 that the 19 km section of highway 37 between Gesztely and Szerencs will be extended to four lanes. The investment costs more than HUF 35 billion from purely national sources. The preparatory work will be completed by the end of 2020 and the implementation will be completed by the beginning of 2023. Archaeological research and the expropriation of the buildings concerned are carried out during the preparation. In my first speech, I would like to express my thanks to everyone involved in this work, and also to those who will be involved later. My father put 20 years of work into building this road for all of us, for the economic, tourist recovery of the Zemplén region, for safe and fast transport. With the road completed, the people of Zemplén can approach Budapest in four lanes, more borders, and drive to the sea by expressway. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-11-16-324	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zsófia Koncz. That's what you want to say, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-11-16-325	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to congratulate you on your term of office. He struggled Derekically and took part in a tough fight, but with his determination and excellent program he achieved a worthy result and success. For all of us, for all Hungarians, he has proved that justice and common sense can triumph over and over again and overcome injustice and hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am sure that he will continue the work started by his father in a worthy and ambitious manner. I wish you every success and perseverance, and it is a special honor to be able to answer your first speech. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County has developed faster than the national average in the last decade. On the basis of GDP per capita, it has advanced five places in the county's development ranking and is currently ranked 12th. At the pace of development, I would just like to say that GDP per capita has doubled in the period since the change of government in 2010. It is also worth mentioning the performance that the people in the county provided in the framework of the economic protection action plan, as the various support programmes received more than four thousand aid applications from the county, worth almost HUF 14.5 billion, covering only a part of the programmes, and the people and businesses in the county fought to protect tens of thousands of jobs. I would also like to congratulate the people in this county. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The extent of the road network and its quality of service have a major impact on the economic development of the country and individual regions and cities and the quality of life of families living there. For this reason, continued expansion of the various transport networks and the continuous development of existing infrastructure are a top priority for the government. Road development plans are aimed at connecting motorways in the metropolitan area, leading motorways and motorways to national borders. As a result of the rapid expansion of the network, by the middle of the decade each county-righted city of Hungary will be available on four lanes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The development of the countryside is very important for the national government, as opposed to the destructive policy before 2010. This is what our various programs are about, for example, the "Hungarian Village" program, but other developments could be classified for a long time. In the 6th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, it is also essential to modernise the various road sections for the comfort and safety of residents in the region. This is why we have implemented the various road renovation programs, including the various developments in the 3621 road between Tokaj and Taktaharkány and the 3703 road between Halmaj and Abaújszántó. And indeed, as you have said, honourable Member, the next major project in the region will be the four-printing of Highway 37, which will serve the comfort, safety, the economy of the region and the improvement of the quality of life of the people living between Gesztely and Szerencs. The expected deadline for completion is the first quarter of 2023, and we hope that this nearly 35 billion, more than 35 billion HUF development will be able to complete by then and will be able to use this development to their satisfaction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-16-326	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The next, announced speaker in the script announced in advance that he could not be here, so I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik:. This is how our culture will be destroyed. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-327	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, this is how our culture is destroyed. Let me begin with a confession: I like to read passionately, and in my childhood it was from the small library in Sopronbánfalva that I turned twice a week after renting five or six books because I read them so quickly. Of course, I read a lot of books at the time, from science-fantastic literature to Marai. I didn't have sophisticated and sophisticated tastes at the time, but the love of reading remains in me to this day. However, according to the survey carried out in the summer of Tárki 2020, which looked at the reading habits of the Hungarian population, we discovered even more alarming signs from the point of view of the destruction of our culture. According to the survey data in 2020, only 13 percent of the adult Hungarian population reads regularly. This is a 12 percent decrease compared to the 2005 figure, then 25 percent of the Hungarian population declared that they read regularly in this survey. The picture is even more horrifying if we add 34 percent of the occasional reader's data, as this means that more than half of Hungarian citizens, so 53 percent of Hungarian citizens, according to their own declaration, do not read at all. This is a tragedy, this is a national tragedy, honourable Members. In addition, more than half and 58 percent of the adult population in Hungary did not buy books in 2020. It's a tragedy. [[22.20]] Jobbik, as a Christian-social party wishing prosperity to all Hungarian citizens, believes that the consumption of culture and thus reading also belong to well-being. That is why we are proposing that we make books available again for the broadest possible layers, so it is desirable to consider reducing the VAT rate for printed books to zero percent. Indeed, the XXI. I also read e-books on a tablet myself, but it is to be seen that instead of pre-emptive negative scenarios, the market for printed books continues to be stable, and as a conservative person, I would rather shoot a book freshly coming out of the printery than an e-book. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] This survey is therefore a great, great sadness for us, and I think that our proposal could give us a positive feedback to finally give the most Hungarian citizens the will to read. Dear House, The current state of the coronal epidemic puts an incredible burden on all of us, but especially on health workers and workers in the social sphere and on those in education. Neither is my beloved city, Sopron, where the hospital is a well-equipped hospital on a national scale, especially compared to certain hospitals in Budapest, but, as I explained in 2018, the walls do not cure people, as the shortage of specialists, the lack of well-trained specialists and the lack of well-trained nurses, they are the ones whose absence in this coronal virus situation is even more stressing the situation in Sopron. Moreover, the most important problem at the moment in Sopron is that the citizens of Sopron are not informed by either the mayor or other body about what is happening in reality, what is happening in the hospital, what is happening in the nursing home, as colleagues are working there in an incredible effort. We think the EPP Jobbik think they deserve balanced information. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-328	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner Koloman. Dear Parliament, The right-hand representative of Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a post-the-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-16-329	Mr President, Dear House, In the midst of an emergency and economic crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, it is perhaps even more important for families to feel everyday safety, at least on the front line that people can influence in this world. It has already been mentioned today that some of the forms of family support and government ideas sound very well, get out on the billboards, are widely advertised, at the same time they affect relatively few people, with a small source, which is also unacceptable for the EPP Jobbik because prosperity should indeed be extended to all our Hungarian countrymen. In this spirit, even the release of mortgage loans from multi-children consumed only HUF 5-6 billion, as so few were able to make use of it; as well as the car purchase allowance, since it does not apply to used vehicles with adequate technical parameters, it is only 7-8 million or more wild again, so it also consumed only HUF 8 billion. Not even half a billion student loans, so few have been able to make use of them. We can also see that, since 2010, family support and strict subsidies have been reduced compared to 2010 only because of Fidesz tax, social policy and economic policy that are favourable to the lucky ones. If we complement these with the tax incentives or preferential loans introduced by this government, we can observe a level of magnitude and a minimum increase. At the same time, very few such ideas account for the more than 40 per cent of aggregate inflation that has occurred since 2010 and the 27 per cent VAT, the high tax rate on child rearing articles. Many families see that either they are unable to use the discount mass overall, or they can only account for a small slice of it, or a much larger amount of money is lost from the other's pocket, which cannot be a sustainable state for the well-being of all Hungarians. We also see that there is a solution, but only certain family policy instruments have been frozen by this government. The family allowance is being debated for a long time, since it was the last time it increased in 2008. This is something that the current government will allow to inflame, and perhaps it plans to benefit everyone with family tax incentives and others. However, this plan did not work, and we see that the family allowance would require a strong, radical increase. At the same time, Jobbik would introduce a huge brake and, if you like, a counterweight into this system. We would increase the amount of the family allowance, even by one-and-a-half times, and we would make it a follow-up to inflation, but at the same time a modern, XXI. We would pay this on a family card, worthy of the 100th-century people's party, with a child protection approach, with particular emphasis on the service of children's vital interests. We would make this increased amount available for a relatively limited product range. What kind of product types would join us here? This would clearly include basic foods, articles for child rearing; obviously, the payment of the rent and the housing of the child would be clearly included; and if we really want prosperity for everyone, this child will also have cultural and intellectual needs, and these should also be open through a family card scheme. And it is also clear that if we want these amounts to be concentrated and used on the front of children at a percentage or even higher percentage, then we must put this family card scheme into this system as a brake and counterweight. So we do not want to, and we are honestly saying this so that parents can also use the family allowance on pleasure articles, and we do not want these amounts to be used for gambling. We want to introduce robust, radical child protection in all aspects, much harder than what we are experiencing today, because it is true that our future lies in the world for children who are longing for to come into existence, and we can finally move from the demographic winter, the sinking Atlantis to growth. We believe that a very important 21st century. The modern, in the United States of America, with a very similar operating system, we can move forward on this issue by means of a very comparable system, and perhaps we would also achieve that frozen budgetary resources that are inflating at the moment evaporated from the Hungarian future horizon, can grow again, be used again, and ultimately serve the survival of Hungarians. In this spirit, the EPP Jobbik will do everything in his power to break through the wall of silence. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-16-330	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed.
