u2020-06-02-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 28th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, the Hungarian Parliament declared June 2nd the Day of Hungarian Deaf Sports on the occasion of the establishment of the Siketméma Sport Club in 1912. In the country's first association, now more than 100 years old, involving deaf and hearing athletes, we can now play sports in 12 departments. Deafness is often understood by the general public as a deviation from normal or as a deficit and is particularly negative in its consequences. The National Federation of the deaf Germans prefers to focus on existing capabilities, focusing on the vitality of the deaf community, the creativity of the deaf people who overcome their experiences and shortcomings. The activities and results of deaf athletes also justify this approach. We can be twice proud of deaf athletes, because they not only set an example in traditional values of sport such as competitive spirit, struggle, fair play, respect, but also prove that there is no unattainable goal with sufficient will and perseverance. The slogan of deaflympics: per ludos with aqualitas games for equality is perhaps even more important than the traditional Olympic slogan for sport. Unfortunately, we can say that we know little about our athletes who have achieved international success, even though they have been in every summer tournament since the first deaflympics in Paris in 1924, and it is rare when they have not returned home with medals. Remember that the first Hungarian European championship gold medal of modern sport was won by the deaf-mute Tibor Földváry skater here in Budapest in 1895. Földváry then developed the first international rule book of figure skating. I would also like to highlight Mária Weltner Györgyné Ivánkay, our eight-time table tennis champion in Deaf Limpia, who won a total of 17 Olympic medals between 1957 and 1981, and who was also worthy of the title of National Sportsman. Dear Parliament, Here are the comments before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group.
u2020-06-02-1	At the end of the first phase of the coronal virus epidemic, it is time to take stock of the government's performance over the last two months. We hear from Viktor Orbán that the fear of those who feared that the government would abuse the authority given by the emergency was unfounded. The newly appointed tellers now demand apologies from those who thought that the emergency would give Viktor Orbán another opportunity to expand his power without limit, to steal and to further undermine fundamental rights. Let's take a look at what the government has done during the epidemic, what it's about to do now, and who has to apologize in the end. The government submitted a law the other day that allegedly eliminates the emergency, but the emergency law does not put an end to the emergency, since it does not even give a time limit on when the legislation will be withdrawn. In this draft, the government asks itself to end the extraordinary legal order when they think they will. In addition, in the 200-page salad law submitted at the same time, Viktor Orbán and his government do nothing but simply rename the emergency to a health crisis and completely outlaw all control over the government. In a so-called health crisis, Viktor Orbán can suspend laws, limit fundamental rights, and continue to steal public funds, with the complete omission of Parliament, so it is no longer apparent that Parliament has any control role. Mr Orbán's proposal to withdraw an emergency is nothing more than a cheap hoax, my fellow Members. But the government is doing something more vile now: during the alleged withdrawal of the emergency, they are trying to hide insidious measures in the 200 - page law, such as further tightening up the slave law. According to a proposal submitted by the Government, the Minister for Employment Policy, after an emergency, may continue to authorise the establishment of a two-year working time frame and the same length of accounting period. In practice, this means that in the long term, you allow the employer to give workers only one day of rest per month; so that in the long term it is possible to introduce 12 hours a day of work, so that workers can not receive a penny extra overtime. In addition, the measure makes the worker a debtor slave, as those who do not work now accumulate their negative hours, i.e. their debt, which they have to pay back when they want to change or retire. [[13.10]] Shame on you, fellow pro-government Members. You know exactly that after the outbreak, tens of thousands of young people and workers will leave the country again, including thousands of health workers. Therefore, they expect a hard labour shortage, which they respond not by raising wages, not by better working conditions, but by institutionalising slavery and modern slavery. This is the work-based society of Viktor Orbán. And then let's look at the past, what they have done with the delegation law since mid-March, which, according to Viktor Orbán, is closely linked to disease management! They gave 700 billion forints on the highly overpriced Budapest-Belgrád encrypted railway line. Despite the wishes of the Budapesters, hundreds of thousands of people's favorite family resting places, the City Park, are being cemented. They declared a crusade against the municipalities, einstantized the revenues of the opposition-led cities. Police were sent to innocent people's homes at dawn because they dared to describe how many hospital beds Miklós Kásler had emptied, completely unnecessary. You all believe that they were all essential to the disease management, and they had nothing to do with the abuse of power, did they? But let's not be unfair, because the government has spent generously on an epidemiology. For example, Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 186 billion, and the government gave HUF 200 billion for job protection wage support. Once again: Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 186 billion in one person; they spent the same amount of HUF 200 billion on wage support, to support half a million people who lost their jobs. Orbán, therefore, is worth as much in one person as Lőrinc Mészáros, as half a million, lost a job, mother, father, who went on forced leave or lost their salary, and did not receive a single penny in two months, because that is the time for registration and until any unemployment allowance arrives. After that, honourable Members, there is one person here who has to apologize to the Hungarian people, and this is Viktor Orbán. Thank you.
u2020-06-02-2	I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. [[Németh Szilárd István: Is it worth answering?]]
u2020-06-02-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the epidemic has defined the last few weeks, so first of all let me tell you how we are in the fight against it. Since May 4th, the number of active infected has decreased, and it's a good thing to report that the epidemic is coming to an end. And the fact that we avoided the stage of mass diseases is due to the discipline of the Hungarians, the excellent health professionals and the government making the necessary decisions early in the day. The epidemic has not yet passed, and a second wave is likely to arrive, so although the Parliament may resolve the emergency emergency this week, health preparedness must be maintained. I'm sorry you disagree. Thus, the operation of the operational tribe will continue, the epidemiological management system of hospitals will be maintained, and the Chief Officer will be given enhanced powers. [[Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó keep interrupting.]] Economic aspects are equally important, and I agree with that, because we know that the epidemic is also a threat to jobs. This is why it was necessary to decide early on wage support, wage support for workers and wage support for jobs. Now you strongly criticise these measures, but if you look at the figures, these two measures alone protect or create 200,000 jobs. And we do not expect the opposition parties to praise these measures in song, but I ask you not to discuss their importance, not even because it seems to work, which shows the difference between us, the difference between the two perceptions; the government wants to create jobs and protect them while you are strengthening the relief system. I would like to address the issue of EU money in particular, because after a few months Brussels is waking up and the debate on what the support package should look like. There's a lot of devils here who can hide in the details, so we need to be on the lookout. It does not matter, for example, how much of the amounts allocated to the aid are loan-like. It doesn't matter, because from before 2010 we have experience of the growing financial dependence of the new national consultation on this subject. On the issue of EU money, there is still a scandalous phenomenon that I would like to raise, namely that some left-wing actors have launched a campaign or are continuing the campaign in order for the government to decide on as little EU money as possible. This could mean that the country as a whole would also manage less money, because if they do not decide on EU funds on a national basis, then there is no guarantee that Hungary will receive these funds. The question then arises as to why the left is doing this, why he demands things that are harmful to the country, and why he has been teasing all these past weeks during the epidemic. That's probably why, and that's what your speech supports. [[Szabó Timea: Lőrinc Ripper...]] [[Szabó Timea: Lőrinc Ripper...]] 'Cause they can't take off party politics blinders. (Szabó Timea: Lőrinc Mészáros...) The decision is not based on whether it is right or not, but on whether it comes from the government; and if it is, you are against Dafke. That is why they did not vote for anything that could have been done; that is why health leaders have been attacked all along. You published embarrassing videos of Muller Cecilia, not one, but two; that's why you made a false campaign about not having a parliamentary meeting and then came in here. That's why they were on tour with false statistics, like the worst death statistics in the world you've ever said, that's the lowest. [[13.20]] But no, that wasn't the bottom of it, by the way. The bottom line was when they criticized the government because it also supplied relief supplies to communities across the border. You were a part of all of them, so, yes, you have a great opportunity to apologize. [[Szabó Timea: Lőrinc Mészáros, 200 billion HUF!]] Where, by the way, action should have been taken, for example, at City Hall, they fled from responsibility as a one-time socialist politician from the journalist to the liquor store. That's the thing. To sum up, in recent weeks, many opportunities have been missed to stand next to the country, and they often look us in the eye at why we refer to their policies before 2010 because, after all, many years have passed. That is true, but it is also true that nothing, but nothing, has changed their politics, their often anti-national, but more and more failed policies. As long as we see this, honourable Member, we will speak to you. Because it is bad to think about what would have happened if, in the weeks of the current crisis, left-wing parties had been given the opportunity. The country's very, very lucky it didn't happen that way. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-4	Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The coronal virus epidemic has shown that the globalised world economy and economies exposed to excessive international markets are extremely vulnerable. The two leading sectors of the Hungarian economy, the automotive industry and tourism, have fallen, and according to expert opinions, they will soon not reach the pre-pest level. Tens of thousands of people lost their jobs and income. This is particularly serious in a country that is socially insensitive. Only three months of unemployment benefit insurance is unacceptable and it is also unacceptable that the government has not been willing to extend its duration even during the epidemic. It is clear that the structure of the Hungarian economy is not crisis-resistant or sustainable. We can't pick up where we left off before the outbreak. We need a new economic policy. It was enough in the assembly country, when the government pushed wages down for years because of the multinationals, dumbed down the quality of education and training, when small and medium-sized enterprises were still in the category of "runners" in terms of subsidies! Unfortunately, we see that the government is still thinking about the economic policy that has failed, and it has no idea at all what kind of change of direction is needed. This is supported by the government's announcement of the 100,000 public works programme or a few thousand jobs to be created in the defence sector in order to create jobs. These steps do not point to a sustainable, crisis-resistant economic structure at all. Moreover, the amount of payments received through the public works programme is not enough to starve to death, especially recently, when food prices have risen drastically. Out of 60 to 70 thousand net, honourable Members, you can't pay rent, you can't have a family. Of course, some pro-government politicians may even be able to do this feat. Instead, we need market-based jobs where there is a decent income for work, a salary that families can make a living from, cover their costs, teach their children, support their parents, get a holiday, and even set aside a small reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, it is possible to know the direction and the steps to be taken to rebuild the economy and create crisis-resistant jobs. This does not require the launch of national consultations from many billions. The money for consultation should be used to support people who lost their income because of the epidemic, so that they can still pay rent and buy food next month. Although we, the Greens, are short of the European Union's green reconstruction programme, it is still a step forward in relation to the Hungarian government's economic policy. Progress, because it not only creates jobs, but rebuilds the economy in the direction that is less polluting, which is environmentally, natural and climate-friendly, which focuses on improving people's quality of life. Many, tens of thousands of jobs could be created by developing renewable energy production, manufacturing, installation of low-performance solar power plants, solar collectors, energy modernisation of residential buildings, development of public transport, strengthening food self-sufficiency or water management, and more. A complex building energy program, in addition to creating almost thousands of new jobs immediately, would mean a real reduction in the costs for families, and their account could be reduced by half. The heavy billions that the government has put in recent weeks to expand luxury hotel capacity for Lőrinc Mészáros and other fidesz oligarchs should have already been invested in these areas. Dear House, It is unacceptable for the government to continue where we were before the outbreak. It spends taxpayers' money on its oligarchs, continues to support multinationals, thinking in priority economic areas instead of taking seriously the support of local economies, small and medium-sized enterprises and starting to develop a new economic policy. The directions of the new economic policy should be discussed and adopted here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-02-6	To reply, the floor is for Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-06-02-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We agree, and let us start by saying that the crisis caused by the corona virus poses a threat to ten years of work, its results, because ten years ago we had to bring this country back from the brink of bankruptcy, and since then we have been building a work-based and family-friendly Hungary. Let us not forget, honourable Member, that employment has reached an unprecedented level at the beginning of this year, and unemployment has not been so low in our country since the change of regime. All of this, of course, before the corona virus arrived in the country and began to spread across Europe. And indeed, we have to face today a crisis that will transform our near future, disrupt our way of life so far, and pose a great threat to the Hungarian economy. That is why cooperation, decisive measures, assistance and support are needed. That's what we didn't get from you, among other things. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We also have an encouraging example of the methodology in which left-wing decision-makers put Hungary in crisis and bankruptcy in the context of the 2008 crisis and put Hungarian families at risk. Hungary will not ask for this again. The honourable Member talks about this left-wing model when she talks about a failed model, as the Hungarian government, the national-civil government, has shown over the past ten years how to promote economic growth, sustainable economic growth, job creation and measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The first battle has been won, the plague has been contained, and the second battle is indeed the protection of jobs and the creation of new ones. Hungary has made good decisions in good time to protect the health of Hungarian people, and in hindsight we can say that it was right and wise to say that human life is the first and that we must protect the lives of Hungarian people in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and But we also started working early on the recovery of the economy. We have prepared an economic protection action plan, which will be implemented at three paces. The three phases of the action plan regroup around 20% of the total national product. At the first stage, we reduced, among other things, social security contributions, provided assistance to the companies, and suspended the repayment of bank loans, while the second phase is in full swing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The last ten years have shown us that the economy that carries on its own economic policy is more resilient, and the success recipe for this is always the work-based economy. That is why the focus should be on protecting, restoring and creating jobs in the first place. It must continue to be our guiding thread. We create as many jobs as the virus destroys. [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to inform you here, before the agenda, that 10 481 jobs have so far submitted applications for job protection wage support to 137 330 employees, and about 40 000 workers in research and development work can benefit from the support that we provide. However, we can see that about a third of this demand was submitted to 12,393 employees, a total of 754 companies. The job-creating wage support programme has also been launched, including 2148 companies that have already submitted applications and applications, with a total of 3280 jobs. In addition, we have taken further measures, we have launched immediate online training that responds to corporate shutdown, as well as re-training that prepares Hungarian people for the workplaces of the future. In addition, additional grants can be made available to students, including Student Loan Plus, which 11 339 students have already applied for since its introduction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-8	Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This week there will be a lot of talk about national cohesion, our fellow nations living outside our borders, but I think it is at least as important and I think national cohesion within our borders. One nation can be separated not only by physical boundaries, but also by conscious sharing policies. All you have done in the last ten years is to divide the Hungarian nation. When Mr Speaker of the House, László Kövér, talks about the fact that the Hungarian nation is not part of the opposition, it actually proves what the last ten years have been about, the hate policy that you have been pursuing, and the consequence of which, for example, has been that for many of the time, the Roma Holocaust monument has been desecrated, and it has also been labeled abusively in relation to one of our fellow Members, and it is, in fact, this hate policy that has led to racist demonstrations taking place today in our capital. [[Attila Móring József: How do you know that?]] How can it be, fellow Members, that peaceful demonstrators are brutally punished by hundreds of thousands of forints, that open, racist protests are not disbanded, and the police are actually watching it happen? ! The Hungarian Socialist Party protests against racist manifestations, protests abusive inscriptions, and also protests against the government policy that acts silently, as a supporter, or even incites these racist speeches and racist movements. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP stands by our fellow Member and rejects all such racist manifestations. But, fellow Members, this exclusional, divisive policy has been seen in the economy and in society for the last ten years, because we have seen and see that Fidesz puts its own privileged elite in a position while letting go of the majority of society. 500,000 children starving in the country [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame on you!]] There are 3 million people living below the minimum living age, hundreds of thousands of pensioners living in poverty, nearly 400 thousand jobs have been lost, and we haven't even talked about the nearly 100,000 small businesses whose turnover has stopped overnight. Ladies and gentlemen, We should stop sharing the nation. Learn from what happened a hundred years ago. There's only one way for national cohesion is to rebuild. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Just don't let the socialists rebuild it.]] We need to rebuild the social care system, rebuild the health care system, rebuild the education system, rebuild Hungary, because with a successful reconstruction there is a real chance, giving everyone a real chance at a better life and creating real national cohesion. But, fellow Members, as long as there is propaganda and there is no Ministry of Health, there is no chance of that. As long as there is 100 billion forints a year for propaganda, social workers regret a one-time allowance of 500,000 forints, there is no chance of that. Until the people who lost their jobs in the crisis of the epidemic are protected by the government, there's no chance of that. As long as Hungary has a government that supports banks, but attacks local governments, there is no chance of that. As long as Hungary has a government to renovate the Prime Minister's family hotels with public money instead of renovating the family houses, there is no chance of that. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, renovating the family house isn't about renovating your hotels with public money for a small family. Ladies and gentlemen, That's why we want a real investment in the future. There is no other way than to give more money into education, to spend more money, because everyone needs to have the skills to apply to the ageless National Basics. We need intelligent, sustainable and growth-friendly investments, which will bring value to all of us, so we will also initiate the insulation programme for Kádár cubes. We need a strong, renewed social network, a rebuilt health system that protects us when there is trouble. For our future, for Hungary! Thank you.
u2020-06-02-10	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You spoke of inner peace within the country, Mr. Head of the Group; you, whose government, the government of the Hungarian Socialist Party, is linked to viper, hedgehog, sword-swording and rubber bullets. Somehow, no one at the time stood out from among you that we might not have to sword-slap peaceful memorialists in Budapest, shoot them with rubber bullets, lift them out of the crowd in a hedgehog form, and constantly hit peaceful Hungarian memorialists with vipers. Then somehow the inner peace was not important, then it was important for you that these commemorators, even by force, were removed from the streets of Budapest. You talked about national cohesion, but what did you do to your party partner who campaigned with your portrait and your family against Hungarians across the border before December 5, 2004? He campaigned against their citizenship, against the public-law community with them. What did they do? They complimented him so much that he's still sitting in your benches today. That is how important it is for you, honourable Member, Mr Group Leader, that the person who rejected it with his face, on the one hand, is the leader of the left, partly from Ferenc Gyurcsány, to say no to Hungarians across the border, and then, who even provided a poster face to help him, he was rewarded with a Stallum by his representatives. That's how you stand in national solidarity. [[György Balla: That's right!]] Honourable Congressman, Are you Nazis here in Parliament? ! You guys were Nazis ten years ago, and you were nazis at the time. So what do they do now? They're running for office with the good guys. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: When?]] You stood out here in Kossuth Square and yelled out loud that a joint opposition departure, a candidate against a single candidate. You yelled at the megaphones the loudest in the Kossuth Square in a red jacket that you have to join forces with the brown jackets and then stand up here in Parliament and say zero tolerance to Nazism! How is it that the one that is useful to you, the political group born with such neo-Nazi ideas, joins forces, and if you see a phenomenon somewhere, when there really is a terrible tragedy happening, and obviously, what happened in Deák Square, we all share the pain of families, somehow you didn't manifest yourself there when you should have shown compassion for the victims? When you can put on the old record, the record has always been up since 1990, that you can use a right-hand marker, so you're always loud. Some of you seem to have such livelihood concerns who are always in the mood to make a soundy statement. As far as the police are concerned, honourable Member, you have done too much against the police around 2008 to destroy confidence in the police. They even made Péter Gergényi an honorary citizen in Budapest, which they have been proud of since then, so I think both the police and the people would prefer if the socialists did not have too much to do with the police in the future. [[13.40]] Between 2002 and 2010, you have always announced a redesign program about every six months. If we counted together, the number of times you wanted to restart Hungary along with different theories may not stop at 15. None of these were successful, since the crisis in Hungary was already present as a result of your governance when the global economic crisis had not yet started. And how have you handled the crisis when you say that we need greater social sensitivity and that we should better help those who are in a difficult situation? Let me quote to you not a right-wing politician, not a conservative sociologist, but your left-wing Ferge Zsuzsa, how he judged your social crisis management. He said that in 2008 Hungary was almost the only state, a state with a crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, a matchstick, so that something would happen to the obvious and well-known losers of the crisis. That's what your own home sociologist said about you. And I'm going to go on and say, "This country was clearly not a country, because it was either unemployment care or relief or something that was extended, and as a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is how you dealt with the crisis, honourable Member. The number of unemployed people has increased by half a million, social benefits have been reduced, support for families has been withdrawn, compensation has been increased in social homes. Your secretary of state said that neighbors and friends would take care of people in a difficult social situation. It was your social policy to let the neighbors and friends take care of people in a difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-12	Now, on Jobbik's side, it's James Peter.
u2020-06-02-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Crisis management like ours, I don't think there's another one in the world. I'm serious. [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is everyone in Jobbik excluded?]] Many countries in Europe have set countless examples of how to deal with the crisis. Some have decided to take over 80% of the workers' wages, some have declared a discharge moratorium, a moratorium on the payment of accounts, and others have provided very specific financial assistance to those in distress. You have chosen a different solution, a solution that I believe will surprise the declining West once again. You are not sending financial help to people, you are sending a letter. During the epidemic, they were not able to post an orphan mask to the Hungarians, and now they are launching another national consultation? ! They couldn't send a mask, and they couldn't send a letter? ! [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] So, what's the subject? Soros and his new plan. This is plan 2.0. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches: Plan B!]] Or is it still plan 1.0? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Stand by him.]] Have you seen a doctor, by the way? Because what they're doing is a clinical case. Colleagues, if you want to ask questions, why don't you ask the Hungarian people how they feel about 54,000 community service? Or what do they say about Lőrinc Mészáros's insolence or the hospital evacuations? You're not gonna ask them about that, are you? Of course not. Instead, the Prime Minister goes into the public radio and says that every Hungarian person here is feeling better, and otherwise we have a fantastic year ahead of us. What is this man talking about? About what? ! Have you read the budget for 2021? In fact, it contains HUF 2000 billion for public investments, which means that Viktor Orbán will have a fantastic year, because this is about the money that will go back to the Prime Minister's pocket through Mészáros, Tiborcz, Garancsin and other stromes. There's gonna be overpriced roads and railroads. In the meantime, they want to collect more money from the population, 300 billion forints more, and otherwise prices are skyrocketing. How many more skins do you want to pull off people? How many? ! Cumbersome times are coming, fellow Members, and you know it, and that's why they've set aside 100 billion forints for government propaganda. So that's how much they're gonna explain to the guy and the guy who's retired, how well they're actually living, in case you haven't noticed. Colleagues, why don't you start steering instead of national consultation and lying? What if, for example, from the 2,000 billion forints that are earmarked for public investment, let's say that they would not push friends and relatives, but Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, if they were already creating two thirds of the jobs? What if the Ripper tax was introduced so that not only small people would carry the burden of this country, but also those who bring home the state billions in sacks? Colleagues, this would be the real national cooperation, not the national consultation. The real national cooperation begins with the fact that there is a fair public burden. Well, that's what I haven't had in years. Or would it be fair to bear the public burden of giving the Hungarian employee 50 000 community service from the state in the trouble, and your buddies a hundred billion-dollar state subsidies? Or would it be fair to bear a public burden that a pensioner who worked his life for this country would get a three-percent pension increase? Three percent? ! So you can pay 30 percent more of the pork, the rent and the meds? For years, we have been saying, fellow Members, that a differentiated pension increase must be introduced in such a way that it follows not only inflation but also wages. For years, we have been saying that we need to introduce the 40s programme for men, so that not only the ladies, but also men can retire after 40 years of work. Because right now, most men die before they can retire. Tell me why you feel sorry for this program for 160 billion forints a year. Why? During the weeks of emergency, that's exactly what was released to Lőrinc Mészáros and his friends for railway construction and hotel development. Why are friends always more important than those who have worked a life for this country? Or why are buddies more important than young people who would work a life for this country, but now they don't even know where they're going to live? I'd add half of the government propaganda is half of it. a public-funded housing programme could be launched so that Hungarian young people do not start life with 20-year-old housing loans. So, fellow Members, it's gonna be a fantastic year for you and everyone else when you finally fail and disappear from public life with your slept. And we can finally start building a Hungary where everyone gets the credit they deserve. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Lock yourself out!]] And not just the grinning billionaires can live well, but maybe the little people too. That's what we're working on. Thank you very much for your attention. Have a good laugh. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-02-14	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-06-02-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, You're embarrassing me because you're talking about national consultation, and I know you want to deny the past of your own party. You can see that, everyone can see that, not only we can see it here, but all the Members sitting behind you. It was not so long ago that Jobbik itself started consulting in part on the topics that you have just mentioned, and they said that 4.2 million households in Hungary would be sent to. So what's the problem? [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Public money? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Whose money? Dr. László György Lukács: There was no epidemic, that's the difference!]] You know that this is a well-functioning way to engage in dialogue, and now you're talking about it. Let's get this sorted out. On the other hand, I see that they are also joining left-wing parties in denying the country's performance. Not ours, we'll take it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It wouldn't be difficult!]] The country's performance. If we came up with what you're saying, we'd have a picture of the country falling apart and no hope. Compared to this, over 800,000 new jobs have been created in recent years, with a doubling in average earnings and more than one and a half times in real terms. We don't say that's enough at all. But we say, and these are the facts that wages have increased. That's what we'd like to do. We do not claim, but Eurostat, that the number of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 1 million 300 thousand. Then let's look at the safety issue. For former Jobbik, this was important. The number of registered crimes decreased by 63 percent. Then, let's say, families, you often refer to them: we now spend two and a half times as much on families as your new allies. That's 2,200 billion this year, and there's gonna be more in the next annual budget for that. This is not a hopelessness, as you are trying to suggest, but a continuous construction that many Hungarians can feel on their skin, and we want to continue this work. We also hear that the current measures are being strongly criticised. I would also like to say to you that 10 500 businesses have applied for the wage support that you have strongly pitied, with a commitment to more than 100,000 jobs, namely 137 thousand jobs. Compared to this, Jobbik led Ozdon reduces wages. And in your town, where you come from, you also hear about dismissals. Why aren't you so brave there? Why aren't you so brave there, why don't you protest with the same intensity? Dear Chief of Staff, It is obvious to everyone that Jobbik will permanently cut all its roots in these weeks and will register for the manyth member of the Left Pact. I would like to point out to you that 26 people have formed their faction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Speak of yourselves, there is a reason.]] And as of now, there are 17 of them. Isn't that right, 17? [[Intercoms: Yes!]] Seventeen. We can never be sure of that, because if someone accidentally takes a nap on a quiet afternoon, they can easily wake up to the fact that more people have left the Jobbik fraction. No kidding! No kidding, 'cause last week was a day like this. This decay, you know very well, is for a reason. [[13.50]] I would like to quote to you a representative who was a member of your group a few days ago. He said that Gyula Thürmer might be embarrassed because I think he wants to take over his territory by Jobbik. I don't have anything to add to that. I have absolutely nothing to add to this, perhaps just to raise the point of recalling what was written in their founding statement. It means that the primary task is to remove the Communist successor party and the extremist liberals united with it from power. [[Noise.]] They also wrote that. Listen to me. that the Jobbik Conservative, national, Christian party, and this is the way in which this willingness to compromise is defined as a limit. Now, this line, it's crossed multiple times. The process that Gábor Vona called a soul sale ends in these weeks before our eyes, and you know it, that's why so many people leave the faction. And there is another phenomenon that shows more than anything else how Jobbik changed its shape. Those who follow the television broadcast can see that the laptops of the right-wing MEPs include Hungarian settlements across the border; they can also be seen now. Compared to that, you criticized the government when you sent protective equipment across the border. This is serious! [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: What are you talking about? Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? Are you leaving the memorial now? Are you guys pulling out now? Are you going out on Thursday or are you going to be here? Zoltán Balczó: This is not an answer to the question!]] This is serious! If they don't share with them [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Then you can take these stickers off. But don't worry, because the webshop of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party opened a few days ago. If you want stickers, you can shop there. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] And if you do, feel free to think about how you got here. [[Zoltán Balczó: Was this the answer to the question?]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-02-16	Mr László Szászfalvi, on behalf of KDNP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The most painful event of Hungary's more than a thousand years of history to date is, no doubt, June 4, 1920, the signing of the Trianon peace dictatorship. As a result of the unjust and shameful Trianon decision, our country lost two thirds of its territory and with it more than three million 300 thousand Hungarian brothers. June 4th is therefore our national day of mourning. On this day the bells will ring for a hundred seconds in every Hungarian church in the Carpathian Basin, to mourn, to remind, but also to welcome our survival and the strength of our belongings. A hundred years ago, our country was torn to pieces and bled to death, but they could not break it spiritually and spiritually. Hungary, the Hungarian people, passed an excellent test of endurance and struggle from knowledge a century ago. As impossible as it may seem at the time, the country was reorganized and rebuilt with perseverance and joint effort. This resurrection, this rebirth, proves that a nation can be made great not only by the territory of its country or by its territory, its economy and its wealth, but also by the spirit of national feeling and belonging to one another. Dear House, It is a good indication of the moral holding of Hungarians stranded outside our borders and their rock solid attachment to the nation that they have been separated from the motherland for a hundred years after so many humiliations, cataclysms and trials, after individual and community tragedies, but they have preserved their Hungarians, their mother tongue, their culture, their churches, their institutions and their organizations. Therefore, on the 4th of June, we must not only mourn the events of a hundred years ago, but also remember it in a worthy manner, and be glad that we live here, in the Carpathian Basin and all over the world, and remain, and form a united Hungarian nation again, scattered, but united, torn apart, but united,, although not broken, living a nation in this country, living a nation, a united nation in this country of the Carpathian Basin. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, thanks to the Hungarian voters, our government implemented a change of national policy paradigm, the foundation of which, the Fundamental Law of Hungary, states: "Hungary is responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside the borders, promotes the survival and development of their communities, supports their efforts to preserve their Hungarians, promotes their cooperation with each other and with Hungary. Speaking with Dezső Szabó:. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. In the spirit of this, we have taken historic steps in our national policy over the past ten years. In 2010, we adopted the law on witnessing for national cohesion. We have passed the Double-Citizenship Act. We've rebooted Mamet. In 2011 we established the Hungarian Diaspora Council. Other important and decisive steps were the Unlimited! The programme, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, the Julian programme, the launch of the Petőfi programme, the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, education and education grants, the operation and support of institutions of national importance, and the launch of the various economic development programmes in a budget of tens of billions forints. Over ten times the government's support for our unjustly torn national bodies over the last ten years has been increased. But, of course, it is not just financial support that is important in the process of national unification and nation-building, but that we do so with what internal intent and commitment, with our heart and soul, with the genuine feeling and commitment of union. Dear House, On the 100th anniversary of Trianon, our national goal, our historic task is to create the prosperity of the Hungarian nation in the homeland, so that our actions and decisions will always mean survival for future generations. The KDNP will continue to work firmly on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-02-18	I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are members of a nation whose borders do not coincide with the borders of the country. There are historical reasons for this. However, despite all the reasons that have arisen in our history, we live here in the Carpathian Basin as an increasingly powerful nation that, during the storms of history, has been able to maintain its sovereignty and independence, to fight for its sovereignty and independence. Especially in the last ten years, this nation has been significantly strengthened and has a voice in Europe and even a voice in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, We treat all members of the Hungarian nation as equals. We treat those who live in the territory of the motherland and who live beyond our borders, whether in the Carpathian Basin or within the framework of the diaspora in any distant part of the world. We confess, as the Member quoted: all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, There are hundreds of thousands of Hungarians living in the territories of our neighbouring countries. It is also in their interest that we strive to establish the best possible relations with neighbouring countries. The fact is that it is much better for Hungarians living in neighbouring countries to have a good relationship with the country where they live. We can remember cases from more than ten years ago when there was extreme tension between Hungary and neighbouring countries. That was bad. That was very bad for Hungarians living across the border. Now we have been able to establish a balanced relationship with most of our neighbouring countries, and this results in a much better situation for Hungarians living across the border. I think it takes two things to have a good relationship between Hungary and neighbouring countries. First, mutual respect, then mutual success. Indeed, mutual respect means that we must respect each other's feelings even when the same historical events are accompanied by completely different emotions on both sides of the border. Each neighbouring country must accept that the Trianon peace dictatorship is one of the saddest chapters in Hungarian history. Hungary has lost two thirds of its territory, no one can expect us to celebrate this, no one can expect us to regret this, no one can expect us not to see this as the saddest moment, one of the saddest moments in Hungary's history. And if we can reach mutual respect on this issue, then I think that we are taking a huge step towards improving the quality of life of all Hungarian people living in the Carpathian Basin. [[14.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Historical facts must be respected, history should not be falsified, so everyone knows precisely that in the case of a state, a country that has existed for over a thousand years, the size of its territory has changed. Denying this is a forgery of history, and, of course, we will always find this unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, We need common success stories. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We do not shape our minority ethnicity policy by figuring out what is good for Hungarians across the border in Budapest, then asking them to accept it, but asking them what they think is right, what they think is right, and we represent it, we do it. And indeed, one of the requests of the Hungarian national communities across the border was to strengthen them economically, because if this happens, it will contribute to the ability to play a bridge between the mother country and the country of residence. Therefore, I respectfully inform you that since 2016 there has been 236 billion HUF investment and development in the Hungarian territory across the border [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] thanks to the support of the Hungarian Government, and this support will be maintained in the future. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-20	I give the floor to János Halász, the last in the list of speeches before the agenda.
u2020-06-02-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of protection against the coronal virus. The absence of a mass epidemic is due to three things: decisions taken in time, cooperation and discipline, as well as to excellent professionals to whom we thank for their sacrifice. As we have already experienced, people take action when they agree to see its meaning. The plague will remain with us, but now a quieter phase is expected. This is suitable for everyone to express their views on the measures taken so far, on disease management, on the re-launch of the economy. For this reason Prime Minister Viktor Orbán once again announced a national consultation on Friday. We agree that people should be asked what measures should remain in place, what new ones should be introduced and what people think about economic crisis management. The important question is also how the Hungarians feel about the second Soros plan, about how the American speculator would flood Europe with eternal bonds that would result in debt slavery, which even our grandchildren would pay. These are all serious issues, so we are asking people to fill in and send back the national consultation sheets. We need points of agreement, even if the left is constantly attacking this institution. Remember, there wasn't a national consultation that didn't involve even feet. That's what the leader of the Jobbik faction just did here. Moreover, even the consultation on families was attacked, and some Members even went to the point of openly tearing up the consultation sheet, as did Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a socialist. Others said openly, like Tamás Bauer of Gyurcsány, that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] And the pro-immigration Soros organisations asked people to send back their response envelopes empty. Of course, they failed, but they tried. The same opposition did not support the extension of the emergency situation, it also attacked the epidemiological measures and the experts involved in the defence. We don't expect anything good from them right now. Unlike them, we believe that the eight national consultations so far have proved to be a good tool for asking the Hungarian electorate what they think about certain issues. This will help the government and us, Parliament, to adapt decisions to the Hungarian people's ideas. We can remember that already in February 2011 we launched a national consultation on the creation of a new, solid constitution. Nearly one million people completed it, sent back their views on the future new Fundamental Law, and even one second of them wrote their own comments and a further opinion on the consultation sheet. For the first time, hundreds of thousands of people have felt that it is worth using this new form of expression and would like to participate in a joint solution to the great challenges facing the country. Such a task, a common national issue, was the freezing of energy prices raised by the socialists, which was preceded by the social national consultation. That's how we managed to succeed in reducing the rent. The national consultation questionnaires on immigration and terrorism launched in 2015 at the beginning of the migration crisis have already been completed by over one million people. The vast majority of Hungarian people gave us a clear mandate to build the border fence, to create a legal border closure, so that we could protect our country from the migration flood. In 17 the national consultation on the first Soros plan was also successful. Again, the Hungarians told Brussels that they did not ask for the resettlement of migrants in any form. And the recent consultation on the protection of families has provided the basis for the development of new family policy measures, such as the introduction of a baby shower loan. Dear House, We also expect the national consultation that is now underway to be able to make timeless decisions based on the opinion of the people, both Parliament and the government. We ask everyone to fill in and send back the national consultation questionnaire, and the opinions of all Hungarians count. The Fidesz fraction therefore fully supports the Government in launching the latest national consultation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-22	I now give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó again.
u2020-06-02-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, If we look at the past few years or even decades and ask ourselves what was the event or series of events that changed our daily lives as basicly as possible, then it is clear that the pandemic caused by the coronal virus is likely to compete in this comparison. There's still a debate about what the world will look like after the crown virus. We will probably not be able to decide this debate here, especially in five minutes, but it is more or less consensual, the perception that nothing will be the same as it was before. This is true of political relations and is true of the new global competition. Hungary, the Hungarian government, responded in time, closed our borders, introduced digital education in schools, decisions on curfew, factories stopped. They are all events to which our generation cannot really recall events of great change in its memory. The first stage of health protection has indeed been successfully completed. The capacities that allowed us to keep the number of infections relatively low have been built up, so to speak, the health part of the crisis has remained under control. [[14.10]] So let us thank all Hungarian health workers, doctors and nurses here and now again for their excellent performance and thank the teachers, who have done everything in a completely new life situation so that students can learn the curriculum even if they did not have to go to school. However, beyond people's health and life, this epidemic and its effects have led to a powerful attack on people's workplaces. So just as people's lives and health had to be protected, people's jobs must also be protected. And there was no doubt a huge debate. It is a debate about financing unemployment or financing jobs. This debate has been with us for ten years now, and we have heard accusations made by our opposition fellow Members against honest Hungarian entrepreneurs who are brave enough to invest in this difficult period and to defend the jobs that Hungarian people are occupying. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 806 Hungarian companies have submitted a request for support for a total investment of HUF 377 billion. Thus, while the news of the world economy is about bankruptcies, redundant workers and riots, 806 companies in Hungary have announced a total investment of HUF 377 billion to protect a total of 143,618 jobs, and the government is providing more than HUF 150 billion in support of this. And I understand that you are attacking these companies, but I ask you, those fair day, field, Jászberény, Kiskunhalas or Miskolc companies who are willing to defend the Hungarian jobs in exchange for the government's support for their investment, why are you attacking these companies? Would it be better for these companies to let you go, discredit you, go bankrupt? Would it be better if thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians lost their jobs? And there are international forces who want to do this now, for example, those who want to issue eternal bonds, want the Member States of the European Union to pay interest for generations, generations, decades or longer, to impose financial obligations on us that would never end. Ladies and gentlemen, This is why we need to build the widest possible national cooperation, which is why we need national consultation to ensure that Hungary [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] come out of these challenges as strong as possible, as we came out in 2010. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-24	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-06-02-25	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes László, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Dániel Kárpát Z, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK.Tamás Melár, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Ágnes Vadai, DK; István Hiller, MSZP; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Barna Zsigmond, Pál Fidesz. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; János Bencsik, independent; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; György Lukács, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Erik Fülöp, independent; Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2020-06-02-26	Dear Parliament, I declare that Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of Parliament, resigned on 27 May and quit the Jobbik Group. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government side.]] On the same day, MEPs Andrea Varga-Damm and Gergely Farkas informed me that they had also left the Jobbik faction. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]] Madam and gentlemen of the Council will continue their work as independent Members. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government ranks, among them: The Jobbik is strengthening. Whose turn is it? Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. The MSZP Group has proposed that our agenda be amended as follows. P/10760 on the protection of national identity as the first item on the agenda of the 4 June 2020 meeting. In the course of a joint debate on the political statement No.3 the speakers of the political groups shall also take part in their speeches, with a maximum duration of 15 minutes per political group. Anyone who agrees with that, give me a raise. [[Vote. Several congressmen raise him up and put their hands down. Noise, clarity.]] The reaction was different from usual, and both sides were surprised [[Defiance.]] But I will deduct the consistency: the majority of the House did not support the proposal and neither did its minority. Dear Parliament, So I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. [[Noise.]] If the fellow Members were to pay more attention, such disturbances might not occur. Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Economic Committee to submit a Parliamentary report on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in connection with electronic communications in B/8959. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has asked the Committee by 116 votes in favour, 41 against and three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Cultural Committee to be invited by the Parliamentary Report on the activities of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2019, B/9165. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House asked the Committee by 117 votes to 44, with two abstentions. I ask the House, asking the designated Economic Committee, B/9742, submitted by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, on the title of the Parliamentary Report 2019. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House also asked the Economic Committee to take its decision by 117 votes in favour, 43 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:18 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. [[Noise, several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber very quickly and to continue the discussion outside. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister Peter Szijjártó to answer. I ask Peter James to maintain his position, or rather to postpone the Prime Minister's appearance.
u2020-06-02-27	I'm waiting.
u2020-06-02-28	The last one. Thus, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács will follow, also from Jobbik. They want to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question. I give you the floor, please. [[14.20]]
u2020-06-02-29	Mr President, I respectfully await your reply, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-30	Thank you. János Stummer, a representative of Jobbik, also wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question. In this case, it is at the disposal of the responding party. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Do you have a lot of work to do at the State Department, Minister? Yeah, I bet you do. We can see they're barely winning. One day a few billion-dollar credit line for the Moldavians, the next day a few tens of thousands of masks for the Macedonians, the third day a few tens of millions of euros for the Kyrgyzstans, but also in Mongolia, new jobs have to be grinded, not to mention the masked business. So let's have a man on his feet, even if he's working at the State Department, the man who wins this pace, and it's no wonder there are small or bigger mistakes at this worksite. The new Israeli Foreign Minister, who was attributed sentences that he never said to a few months ago or a few days ago, would also be able to talk about this, at least not in the interview he was conducting with himself. [[Péter Szijjártó: It wasn't an interview, it was a telephone conversation.]] Phone call, excuse me. There's been a lot of diplomatic trouble. So when you work, sometimes you have to rest. Busy people like you need to be able to relax from time to time, let out a little between family and friends, let off some tired steam and worship passions. A country saw last week that the foreign minister knew this rule, because Hungary's foreign minister grinned about a closed-gate football match where no mortal man could set foot. Tell me, Secretary of State, do you really think that you are above all in this country? ! Do you really think you can do anything? Do you really think that Hungary's foreign minister should set such an example for the population of Hungary? Thank you. [[Applause for Jobbik, sporadic applause for Dialogue and DK.]]
u2020-06-02-32	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-06-02-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I could start with what the question is. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But if it's about the football game, [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] If the question is about the football match, here's what I can tell you. In accordance with the Hungarian Football Association's rules, the participating clubs can invite a certain number of guests to closed goal games. [[Intercoms.]] The participating clubs can invite guests. For this reason, I participated first in the Hungarian Cup semifinal at the invitation of MTK and then at Honvéd in Budapest. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-34	It's Congressman's word again.
u2020-06-02-35	Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've noticed, but this epidemic has kept Hungary at bay for months. He keeps health workers in check, who have to go into their workplace every day and see if they can get sufficient and adequate protective equipment to do their lifesaving work. This epidemic keeps older people at bay, who need to keep a close eye on how you talk about public information. He keeps the tens of thousands of people who have lost their jobs in check, who still don't know what the next month will be made of bread on the table. And what do you do? Up above the mortals, he goes to a game and boasts about it. You're usually professional in the work that comrade Prime Minister signs on you. Let's see, it's professional enough to do that: are you willing to admit your mistake and apologize to the Hungarian people? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-02-36	Minister, if you wish to live with the rejoinder, you have the floor.
u2020-06-02-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I do not know exactly how many health protection tools you have been involved in purchasing masks, ventilators and protective clothing in recent months, how many Hungarian companies you have helped protect jobs, how many Hungarian families you have helped to start a stronger position in the post-crisis period, so I think we should not start comparing the work we have done in recent months, because it would be quite one-sided. If you would like to know about my program tomorrow night, I would like to tell you that the Hungarian Football Association has asked me to present the Hungarian Cup tomorrow with the president of MLSZ, so I will also be at the Cup Final tomorrow. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-38	László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who commissioned Minister Péter Szijjártó to answer. I ask the Member, however, that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2020-06-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a lot in recent years about how the government helped companies that wanted to keep jobs. We've heard a lot of these songs right now. We have often said the criticism that if there is one thing that companies prefer more than preferential credit, it is non-refundable support. Then it turned out, of course, there was one, only for the kissers; for the people who started in the so-called Kisfaludy plan. Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, they won, and they won by firing hundreds before, Minister. Lőrinc Mészáros dismissed 800 people, and therefore this government, along with his special attention, rewarded him with HUF 17 billion. How can you imagine that? How can it be imagined, Minister, that kissers are given money that is constantly bragging about the friendship of the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, or that even Viktor Orbán considers them to be his friend. These people also have access to jobs, even if they do not retain hundreds of workers, they get billions, and besides, Hungarian small entrepreneurs complain that they can hardly handle any administrative burden in order to obtain what you have promised as job-saving support. And for others, they simply throw billions. This programme started from HUF 20 billion, and now it has been decided for HUF 83.5 billion, Minister. Who dares to make such decisions? For those who dismiss hundreds of people, why does this government reward them? That's my question.
u2020-06-02-40	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-06-02-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, the government has decided not to finance unemployment, but to finance investment and jobs and create new jobs through it. Accordingly, honourable Member, as you know, we have launched our competitiveness-enhancing support system, where companies in Hungary will indeed receive non-refundable aid in the event that they invest in order to keep the jobs they have. There is a clear set of conditions: the average number of people employed in the last year must be maintained after the grant has been granted. I respectfully inform you that 806 companies have submitted such applications, and they are investing a total of HUF 376,7 billion, saving 143,618 jobs. The amount of government support is HUF 178.6 billion, so the initial fund of HUF 50 billion has already been raised to HUF 150 billion. I do not want to get involved in that debate, honourable Member, about what kind of party-based company is supported, because it doesn't matter to me. In our tender support, if I remember correctly, János Kóka's company also won, and Tamás Leisztinger's companies won, so it is neither a pró nor a kontra that the owner of a company is known about which political side he sympathizes with. I see Hungarian entrepreneurs who are brave enough to invest in the most difficult economic period, and the government gives us support and therefore we protect jobs. I therefore ask you to speak positively and with appreciation about these Hungarian companies. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2020-06-02-42	I'll give the floor back to the congressman.
u2020-06-02-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know about Lőrinc Mészáros, who dismissed 800 people with due respect, especially after he received 17 billion forints. When a company is formed in December 2019, which owns an ex-football player with a core capital of HUF 3 million, it wins 3.5 billion, Minister, on the same program. It's money, it's for the kissers to splash it around the farm right now for those who are kind to you. Who dares to evaluate these programs? Who, what documents did they ask for? And what led you to decide that these investments would ever pay off if it wasn't a slap money, if you weren't just throwing it to these entrepreneurs because you're kind? It's not a matter of party support, Minister. What's the reward for letting you go? That's my question.
u2020-06-02-44	Once again, Minister has the floor.
u2020-06-02-45	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Each tender has the appropriate legal conditions and must respect the legal conditions of both the applicant, the tenderer, the grantor and the recipient. If you think there's been a specific violation somewhere, I would ask you to take specific legal action. If you don't do this, it's just a political slash we've heard from you. I would like to ask you once again not to use such negative indicators to describe the Hungarian companies that are investing in you now. I would like to say again: you are talking about 806 Hungarian companies, 806 companies are investing in 948 locations in Hungary, 772 in the countryside, and at least 11 applications from each county, from more than 30 industries. I think we should be happy about this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] because the Hungarian economy will be successful if companies can successfully move through the crisis. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-46	Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. If you accept the Secretary of State as a responder, I'll give you the floor.
u2020-06-02-47	There was a time when Fidesz believed in the ideas of the local government, when it considered them important, but unfortunately, it is now the past, and you have different priorities. Fifty percent of the tax paid by banks to the epidemic fund can be used for the Tao; yes, for the Tao, not for health care, education or possibly for the support of municipalities. The income of the rural priests is doubled, and the salaries of the general practitioners were not felt important here either. Foreign sports associations and hotels of friends were considered worthy of support, while at the same time they were withdrawing money from universities, giving nothing to pensioners, bringing home less health workers today than before the outbreak began. They also withdraw money from municipalities in the spirit of solidarity, even though the epidemic gives municipalities many new tasks. You hijacked more than 250 million forints of car taxes from Elizabeth and Terézváros. The loss of tourist tax in the two districts is more than a billion, and free parking has created hundreds of millions of gaps in the budget. In addition, there have been countless tasks assigned to the municipalities. You have decided not to help the municipalities, but to push them into the ravine. As long as the German government, Angela Merkel, spends heavily on the cities in distress, Viktor Orbán wants to strangle the settlements. We understand, of course, that after last October's elections, these have become sinful cities, and the government does not care that districts and these cities are difficult to help older people because of withdrawal, they have difficulty providing support to the poor, there is no money left for development. Fidesz cities will have money, but where Fidesz has lost, Fidesz and the Orbán government will squeeze you. As a Member of the Parliament of Elizabeth and Terézváros, I protest that the municipality Hundreds of millions are deducted from the VI. and VII. District. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I ask the Secretary of State why the municipalities are being punished. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-02-48	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, It is an unprecedented global epidemic that has reached Hungary, and I think that we can be proud of the results of our defense, we can be proud of the people who have taken part in this defence, whether in the field of health or in any other area of life, and, yes, those who work in the public service for the public sector, most of all, are on the front line. In order for this defence to be successful, we need to work together, we need to work together, we need to work together, and there is a financial burden involved in this cooperation. I can answer the series of questions listed by the Member, or raised in a manner of accusation, that it is very difficult to believe that you are concerned about the municipalities. Your concern, who have brought the municipal system to the brink of liquidation, to the brink of financial inability, you, who have left the settlements with additional tasks, without development resources, and left the municipal system to the Orbán government with a debt of some HUF 1,400 billion, is extremely uncredited by your concern. The municipal system works well, the municipalities are able to perform their tasks well, and all the restructuring and restructuring that took place in municipal farming and municipal funding is good for the functioning of the municipalities. The division of tasks between municipalities and the state ensures that the services can be reached by the people living there in all settlements, and it also provides an opportunity for the municipalities to create and develop the self-force necessary for development from own resources and budgetary resources, and this is also seen in the municipalities, as they are constantly developing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-50	For another minute, Mr. Congressman will have the floor again.
u2020-06-02-51	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. You haven't been to the local government in the last few months because you don't know what you're talking about. Come with me to Teresa or Elizabeth city. Let's go to a meeting, ask how much money the government has taken during this period, and how much extra work they get, and you haven't replaced it. It would be your job to fight for the municipalities, not protect the Fidesz. It is not the honour of the mundé that must be protected; it is the municipalities that must be helped, Mr. Secretary of State. So, with all due respect, I'm asking you to come with me, see how the plague has affected you. You're talking about solidarity, and in the meantime, they're giving money for stadium construction to foreign sports clubs. Why don't they pay for this solidarity fund? Where's the solidarity here, Mr. Secretary? ! They're digging through the local government's pockets, and they're smuggling the Tao into the pockets of different football teams. It's not solidarity! While mayors struggle in these districts, they create social housing, trying to help people put on the streets by the Kasler Ministry [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You're taking money from the local government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-06-02-52	Once again, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2020-06-02-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You were supposed to look around the country in 2010, and instead of you, the voters did, by the way, I think they gave a pretty strong opinion on what kind of policy you had with the local governments or with the people at all. I am sure that the municipal system can continue to function in a stable manner, the necessary resources are available for operation. You are talking nonsense because in one of your speeches you suggest that we take tasks away from the municipalities, and now you're saying that we're giving the municipalities extra tasks. You don't even know what you're talking about. I think you should come clean first. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]]
u2020-06-02-54	Lóránt László Keresztes is next if he accepts Minister Szijjártó as a reply, because otherwise he would have asked the Prime Minister.
u2020-06-02-55	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-06-02-56	He'll wait. Mr Péter Ungár, who wishes to ask a question to the Minister of Human Resources, would be next. [[On the sign of Péter Ungár:]] He'll wait for the Minister. Then again, I would like to ask Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, to accept Mr Tamás Schanda as State Secretary as a reply.
u2020-06-02-57	I accept, yes.
u2020-06-02-58	If so, ask your question. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My question could be a subtitle of why the government is continuing its rail-destructive policy of Balliberal predecessors. We have had a long-term debate here on the fact that you, pro-government representatives, have accepted the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and this project has also been encrypted for ten years. A project of nearly HUF 1000 billion was approved, which was not justified in any way from the point of view of return utilisation. So you didn't put down guarantees, the project was encrypted, so the Hungarian people can't know what they're going to spend this huge amount of money on. On the other hand, we know that with this huge amount of money, this year's budget, which is spent on the project, you have resigned from the creation of 125 thousand new jobs. [[14.40]] Next year's budget has been submitted, and it is not clear how much they intend to spend on this project next year. During the debate, you were able to talk about rail development, while your government virtually condemned 34 railway sidelines to death with a brutal flight thinner. The government has recently decided that the majority of 34 sidelines will have one pair of trains per day, and train replacement buses will carry passengers. This is completely unsubstantiated both from the transport sector and from an economic point of view. You are referring to the introduction of a temporary epidemiological agenda. My question, Mr Secretary of State, and I would like to clarify this question here in front of all Hungarian people and the professional public, is that it is a temporary measure and when this measure expires. Can we expect this outrageous epidemiological agenda here on the 34 sidelines to last as long as the emergency situation is expected to restore the original agenda on 20 June? Explain then why it is necessary for the government to stop virtually all regional rail transport for two weeks. What is the government's justification for the measure in such a way as to ensure that bus transport, i.e. train replacement buses, is safer from an epidemiological point of view than wagons with significantly higher capacity? It was also written in this proposal that the stock that was released would then run on the main lines. What exactly are you thinking? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-60	Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor.
u2020-06-02-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to the continuous development of the Hungarian transport infrastructure and the forms of public transport according to the needs of travellers. We have also set strategic objectives in this regard. For example, connecting cities with county rights to the motorway network and driving highways and motorways to national borders. Between 2016 and 2024 we spend some HUF 3200 billion on the modernisation of the Hungarian road network, most of which is from Hungarian sources. Honourable Congressman, Similarly, we have ambitious objectives and measures in the area of Community transport services, where we focus on coordinated expansion of supply, renewal of vehicle stock and measures to increase passenger comfort. Indeed, as you mentioned, as a representative of a green party, you did not vote in favour of rail development and did not vote in favour of the cases and developments concerning, for example, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. This is a surprising turn of events for all the members of the Green Party. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that we are planning to spend nearly 750 billion HUF on developing the Hungarian railway from EU funds in 2021-2027. If the honourable Member were to follow up more closely on what is new about the railway, you would know precisely that there is no closure, there is no definitive termination on the railway lines mentioned by you, but the government has put in place a temporary, flexible epidemiological agenda, in which we take into account the changing needs of the travelling public. I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-62	Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-63	Dear Secretary of State, You didn't answer my question. Please state clearly the government's position as to how long the temporary timetable for the temporary epidemiological situation will apply when this will end. So you can expect that there are 34 sidelines on these sidelines, where virtually all rail transport will return to full rail transport in two weeks? [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Explain why this measure has been taken now, why not when the number of passengers has decreased significantly due to the restrictions, by the way. Explain, on behalf of the government, why passengers are being counted on sidelines when the epidemiological situation has really reduced the number of passengers. What exactly is the type of development for 34 sidelines where this traffic has now been virtually nullified? Please, Mr Secretary of State, honor the Hungarian Parliament, honor the Hungarian taxpayers, respect the stakeholders and the profession by responding openly on behalf of the government, when this shameful rail-destructive policy ends, and when will transport on the 34 sidelines affected be restored before the epidemiological situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Schanda.
u2020-06-02-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, When it comes to rail destruction, ask the people around you how left-wing politicians did railway destruction during their government. As left-wing politicians then destroyed the railway, you do not support the development of the railway, as we have been discussing this a lot in recent years. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to pick up where I left off. The rail network on which transport is based becomes more priority, in this new temporary epidemiological agenda the railway has priority, and the task and role of bus and coach transport is increasing in line with this. These measures will typically take effect on several regional railway lines and sections of the line as from 6 June 2020 in order to allow for the use of inter-urban bus services which would otherwise be parallel to those which would be justified. I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-06-02-67	The opportunity is tempting, but we will wait for Viktor Orbán.
u2020-06-02-68	Okay, thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: What is going on here? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Congressman Tordai to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-06-02-69	It seems the Minister in the government is irreplaceable, and so is he here. We don't accept it.
u2020-06-02-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question: What is going on? It's an address. Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, was entitled to respond to his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2020-06-02-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that in order for Hungary to succeed, a consensus on national policy issues needs to be sought, which means that we need to look for what connects and not what separates. Unfortunately, it doesn't work most of the time. Unfortunately, we're a long way from that. Trianon must be such a question. For the reasons, in how we got to this point, there can be a debate between us and there is even a debate between us, but we all regard what happened a hundred years ago as a tragedy, and there is consensus in this. I'm sure you've heard that Gergely Christmas has called the metropolitans for a one-minute silent commemoration of Trianon's 100-year anniversary. I have made this proposal to the Parliament, and today the National Assembly Committee unanimously accepted and voted in favour of this proposal. But Parliament is no longer able to negotiate, to accept this on June 4th. My question is, therefore, that the government, taking into account the fact that there is a national consensus in this regard, which is rather rare nowadays, is willing to order, like Budapest, to remember Trianon with a one-minute silence throughout the country. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer.
u2020-06-02-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think it's important, and on your part it's appreciated that you're thinking about how to commemorate this event. You mentioned a proposal that was also discussed in the commission. I have been informed that your proposals have missed the deadline, that you have been on the House Committee and have not made any suggestions on this. Thank you for your attention. [[14.50]]
u2020-06-02-74	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Dömötör. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2020-06-02-75	I began by saying that we should look for what is connected and not what is separated, that we should look for what we agree on and not what we do not. Obviously, this proposal was not made in time to come before this House because of the outbreak. I think it's a reasonable slip. Here, the government would have the opportunity to draw attention to this important anniversary, if such a consensus was reached on such an important issue, with a government decision, just as it was in the capital, and ask them to remember this anniversary for a minute throughout the country. This is also important because there can be different views on this issue, you can think of many others on this issue, but at that moment everyone thinks what they want, and everyone can remember it properly. I ask that the government reconsider this and propose this so that everyone together on 4 June can remember this anniversary as worthy.
u2020-06-02-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dömötör State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hungary is a free country, every municipality is free to decide how to remember this anniversary. One thing I can assure you: the government will commemorate you in a worthy manner, and everyone will have the opportunity to attend these commemorations, even in an epidemiological situation. However, one thing in national politics is how we remember this event and another is what the individual parties in national politics are doing. And yet you are sitting in a party whose representatives did not vote for dual citizenship, and from time to time they are drilling for national political cooperation, even a few days ago the government was criticized for supplying protective equipment to Hungarian communities across the border. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] So if you could change this policy, there's one thing I can say: go for it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mihály Witzmann, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "How does the Government contribute its economic protection measures to the successful control of the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Witzmann.
u2020-06-02-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, As is known, Hungary has successfully completed the first phase of protection against a coronal virus epidemic. And in success, cooperation was essential, almost everyone joined forces, except the left-wing opposition, which unfortunately pulled itself out of the common defence. We have been saddened to find that in recent weeks, exactly those left-wing parties have spoken about health care and protection against the epidemic, which have bled out the health care system during their administration, bankrupt hospitals, and have prevented protection throughout the difficult period behind us, and have not voted in favour of the Crown Virus Act and the special legal order allowing rapid action. Since the beginning of the epidemic, the opposition has been rooting for the failure of defence, busy with political attacks, fake news production, or honking protests, while doing everything it can to attack Hungary again and again in Brussels. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] On the other hand, the civil government has been working for months to protect the health of Hungarian people, protect jobs and the results of the Hungarian economy since 2010. While the government protects jobs and creates new jobs through continuous economic recovery measures, wage subsidies, investment promotion programmes and economic protection action plans, George Soros would trap Hungary with huge borrowings. The whole point of his so-called plan is that he wants to give Europe a loan whose share of the capital is not to be repaid, but his interest is to be repaid forever without the expiration date. This road could lead to an inaccessible debt crisis for Hungary, since this loan would not create jobs, but only create debt. Dear Minister, The effectiveness of the economic protection measures so far has been demonstrated by the fact that some government assistance has already been provided in saving and maintaining more than one million workers' jobs, in which the economic recovery measures introduced by the government play an important role. In light of what has been said, I respectfully ask Minister how the government's economic protection measures contribute to the successful control of the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2020-06-02-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic has not only health but also economic effects, and it needs to be focused on economic protection as much as it needs to be on health care. This situation is familiar from 2010 when the Hungarian economy also faced serious challenges due to external factors. Fortunately, there is a big difference between the two economic crises, namely that in 2010 the Hungarian economy had to face these problems in a weakened state, and in 2020 a vibrant economy can respond to the challenges posed by the pandemic. Of course, discussions about how to deal with the economic crisis are always coming back. We decided to focus on protecting jobs. However, the only way to protect jobs is to invest, and now investments are to provide some kind of help and support. The government has issued a HUF 50 billion grant envelope for its application for aid to increase competitiveness, which is that if a company undertakes to invest in order to protect jobs, half of the invested value will be added by the government up to EUR 800 thousand. 806 companies have submitted applications, with a total investment of HUF 377 billion in the coming months in Hungary, which will protect 143 618 jobs. The government tripled the grant envelope from HUF 50 to HUF 150 billion, but then we will go back to the government to increase the subsidy amount, given the 178.5 billion HUF demand for support. Allow me to express my appreciation and thanks to all Hungarian engineers and workers who work for this 806 company, because without their performance, obviously, these companies could not have been in a position to think about investments in such difficult circumstances. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Witzmann.
u2020-06-02-83	Thank you very much. Of course, I accept Minister's reply. And in conjunction with what you said: I had a personal experience before last week, as two companies from my constituency, the Somogy 4 constituency, based in Siófok, were able to apply successfully, precisely for the competitiveness-enhancing programme mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In this way, individual companies could not only take over the grant contract, but also receive 50 per cent of the aid, they can make 600-600 million HUF development in the Somogy region, and here it is a huge virtue and result, I think, both in terms of maintaining jobs and creating new jobs and developing the region's economy. Thank you to the government for your support. I think that we can also see differences in the response to the crisis between the current government measures before 2010 and after 2010, because we are not responding to the challenges with austerity, the current government is not responding to the challenges by raising taxes, reducing wages and indebtedness, but precisely by wanting to be partners with domestic companies. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-84	Thank you, Congressman Witzmann. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is at least as important that, in the medium and long term, the government is in favour of companies, because we are actually giving a one-time grant, and at Eximbank, preferential borrowing opportunities have been opened, but we need to reduce labour taxes in the long term. Since 2010, the Hungarian economy has been the fastest growing economy in the European Union at the end of 2019, and as many people have never worked in Hungary since the change of regime since the end of last year, at the beginning of this year. Therefore, it is important to continue to reduce the tax burden on labour, so it is almost not necessary to wait a month to reduce the rate of social contribution tax by another 2 percent from 17.5 to 15.5 percent as of 1 July, which allows Hungarian businesses to either raise salaries or redistribute new amounts for investments. Reducing labour taxes and supporting investment should remain the focus of economic policy. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr.Péter Szijjártó granted the right to reply. I ask Congressman Steinmetz to accept the identity of the responder. [[15.00]]
u2020-06-02-87	It's an honor to have an athlete answer, so I respectfully accept it.
u2020-06-02-88	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Steinmetz.
u2020-06-02-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I am very honored that my name has been raised among the candidates for President of the Tennis Federation, but political relations are also needed to accomplish this task, said Csaba Babos, father of the three-time world champion Tímea Babos. But why is political relations needed today in Hungary for the professional leadership of an alliance? Dear Minister, During your administration, some sports have received considerable support thanks to taxpayers and you. But together with state resources, Fidesz politicians also flowed into the head of sports organisations: Szilárd Németh, Máté Kocsis, Gábor Kubatov, Lajos Szűcs to name only a few names. But why do these gentlemen think they're good at sports? After all, sport is an independent profession, not enough for a party book. It is also entirely contrary to a healthy competitive spirit that a sports leader, in his political capacity, decides to support the same sports organisation or to pay attention to it right now! the non-subsidisation of opponents, competitors. Dear Minister, The curse you fought was the same practice. And I'm telling you, it's not lovable, it's not lovable today, it's not eligible today, and it's bad for sport. Therefore, I respectfully ask: do you agree that you should not be head of a sports organisation, regardless of whether you belong to a Member, mayor or member of the government? Yes or no? We're waiting for your honored answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-02-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'm flattered, but your first sentence was an exaggeration. It is an honor to give an answer to such a fellow Member, who has already gained so much glory for Hungary in other areas of life, for which there will be subsequent appreciation and thanks to you. With all due respect, however, allow me to answer no to your question; I will gladly tell you why. I don't care just as much as I've had the pleasure of telling you that I don't care who the head of an association or a sports club is who he's pulling me to. Perhaps the best thing in this area is to entrust it to the members of the associations, the voting leaders of the associations operating in that sport, in the given sports association, to decide and to choose the person they think can lead the association. I am not a member of any sports associations, so I do not know on what basis, for what consideration, the members of the sports associations have made decisions on the matters of the association, including the leaders. Perhaps it is right for them to do so, and they choose executive officials at their discretion, which I would not exclude from the circle those who deal with public affairs, just as I do not think it would be right to exclude athletes or former athletes from the world of public affairs, or politics. I always thought it was right for athletes, former athletes to be involved in public affairs. I'm sure you know that many former athletes work in my ministry, they do excellent work, you have a former teammate among them, and I think I made the right choice every time I hired them to work for me, and I thank them for using their earlier popularity, their earlier performance, to serve their country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Steinmetz is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-93	Dear Minister, If you think that's okay, then I have to ask you, what about the Fidesz sports leaders after a possible change of government? What kind of lobbying power will they have? And allow me to shed some light on the untenable nature of the situation. According to the law on local authorities, the representative must not engage in activities which could undermine the public confidence necessary for the performance of his duties. And when a fellow party, by his incompetence, has put the tennis league into a billion-dollar debt, well, then public confidence is faltering. And there is a very bad message that a community of athletes, in which there are many different political world-view people, is led by people who are party-related. So, Minister, I suggest that we leave the decisions of the sports profession to the professionals, because in the long run it is particularly bad for Hungarian sports to be led by politicians. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-02-94	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-95	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Sports associations have meetings at a certain time, where they can decide who to entrust to the management of the sports association, so there will obviously continue to be sports union meetings after the next parliamentary elections. We do not know the outcome of the next election, and therefore we do not know on what basis the professionals can consider in the next sports fraternity election. Because you are talking about professionals, and I agree with you, honourable Member, that we should leave the decisions to the professionals, but those gentlemen, who you have listed as the leaders of sports associations, are now leading those professional associations on the basis of their votes and decisions. So you asked me your question, and I respect that. You know perfectly well that the appointment of one person named by you is not up to me or anyone who sits in this room and does not depend on the government, but belongs to the relevant sports associations, whose decisions we cannot do other than respect them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. After the Ukrainian-Hungarian negotiations that took place in recent days, how do you assess the relationship between the two countries? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Simicskó.
u2020-06-02-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Ukrainian educational law adopted in 2017 is pleased that the Hungarian government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has taken very serious steps in order to settle the Hungarian-Ukrainian relationship in particular because of the language article in it. Mr.Dmitro Kuleba, Ukrainian Foreign Minister, was on his first official journey to Budapest, and a number of important issues were discussed with Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó. We will certainly see this as a breakthrough, and I will have two questions about how you see it, Minister, all of this; it is certain that a historic meeting has taken place in view of the opposition of the last three years. I'm sure we need to sort things out. The coronal virus epidemic has also demonstrated that close interdependence is an important factor in Central Europe, and that is where we live, where we need to find the common denominator. CHAPTER XXI The century must bring the importance of cooperation for all nations, especially in this region, in the Carpathian Basin region instead of opposition. Hungary has recognised this and strives to be in a very good relationship with the neighbourhood and neighbouring countries, and obviously, I believe the Ukrainian partner has also seen Hungary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the spirit of solidarity, helping Ukrainian citizens stranded in Western Europe to get home, the Romanian citizens, as well as 8.5 million tons of protective equipment for the Transcarpathian health institutions. KDNP supports the government's efforts to help the Hungarian government improve the living conditions of Hungarians across the border, to preserve their mother tongue and culture, especially in the case of Transcarpathian Hungarians, in the case of Hungarians living in 150,000 minorities. Dear Minister, I have two short questions: how do you evaluate the effectiveness of the Hungarian-Ukrainian Foreign Minister meeting and when is the Hungarian-Ukrainian border phase expected to be reopened? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-98	Thank you, Congressman Simicskó. I give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it was encouraging that Dmitro Kuleba's first trip abroad led to Hungary. The meeting could be seen as a result, especially in the conflicts of recent years. I would like to point out that significant debates have continued on important issues, on important issues related to the exercise of the law of the Hungarian national community. [[15.10]] However, there is no doubt that the tone and atmosphere may give us some kind of hope that we can return to the former situation with regard to the exercise of the rights of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. The Ukrainian foreign minister-college presented a draft memorandum in which we would comprehensively assess Hungarian-Ukrainian relations in the fields of economic, cultural and social cooperation, and in this we would also set out the possibilities for future cooperation. We have agreed that this document will be discussed by three of our committees, the Joint Economic Committee, the Task Force on Education and our Joint Committee on Minority Affairs. And here we are trying to reach an agreement to ensure that the rights of the Hungarian national community living in Transcarpathia are not undermined, so that they can continue to learn in their mother tongue, take a graduation exam in their mother tongue, and use their mother tongue during social contacts, as well as during cultural and religious life. With regard to border crossings, I can say that we are ready to allow Ukrainian and Hungarian citizens to cross the border between Hungary and Ukraine. The Ukrainian party is not ready for this. For the time being, we have been informed that they still need time, and only Ukrainian citizens can enter Ukraine in terms of international passenger traffic. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As soon as the Ukrainians change this attitude or this intention, we are ready to negotiate on this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Congressman Simicskó.
u2020-06-02-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. It is very important that we settle things with Ukraine as well. I very much appreciate the openness that the Hungarian Government has made, and obviously now the Ukrainian Government is also making gestures. I trust that it is in their best interest to settle the situation. Obviously, we know and see that sad series of events, because this internal conflict has been going on for years now and obviously the Russian-Ukrainian conflict itself. For me, this is always a very big lesson, for brothers' wars must always be judged deeply. We are very sad to see the Slavic peoples attacking one another in this way and becoming divided. I trust that this relationship will be resolved soon, but the most important thing for us is that the fate of Transcarpathian Hungarians should be soothed, that they can gain access to the proper level of learning of their mother tongue. And obviously those life opportunities, the Hungarian government's economic policy and economic recovery programme will also have an impact, and as many Hungarian families in Transcarpathia will find their way forward [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] thanks to the help of the Hungarian government. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-102	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister.
u2020-06-02-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We're starting from the basic principle that it's much better to be friends with the neighbors than in the wrongs. So it is also in the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians to build good relations with Ukraine. In the case of other countries, Serbia or Slovakia, where there was no good relationship in the past, it worked by building common success stories in practical areas of life, in terms of energy, economic or transport cooperation. This is why we decided to continue the economic development programme in Transcarpathia, where 19 billion HUF has been invested so far in Transcarpathia. We will continue planning for the development of border infrastructure, whether the opening of a new border crossing in Nagyhodos, the renovation of the Tisza Bridge in Zahony, or the construction of the road connecting Beregszász to the Job. This is why it was important that we signed the agreement to extend the validity of the $50 million credit line which Hungary grants Ukraine for the implementation of border infrastructure developments. So for our part, we did everything we could, I think. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question, "How many people have been sent home from hospitals?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] It says yes. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2020-06-02-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The implementation of the Kasler plan is still unclear, and if there's anything to talk about, it's bed release and neglecting patients with chronic non-coronal viruses. On the one hand, because we need to be clear about exactly what happened, the government must take responsibility and, on the other hand, for the future implications of these measures for the lives of individual people. To this day, we do not know exactly what happened, because the government is secretive, and we also see that hospitals have been banned from communication with a noble simplicity. However, there are public records, and I have examined them. According to the data of the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, half the use of hospital beds fell between February and April. The worst setback affects chronic beds on the one hand, and on the other hand was in rehabilitation departments on the other. Here, from 90 percent to 30 percent of bed use has fallen, which is a tremendously brutal setback. A few days ago, the NEA came up with new and unpublic data. Based on the daily booking data of the beds, they claimed that by the end of March 58 percent of the beds were available, so only 2 percent had to be released for 60%. I've just looked at these numbers, and I see them slipping again. 58 percent is a nationwide ratio, i.e. 80 percent of the beds in one hospital and 30 percent of the beds in the other. However, there is this order of 7 April, which required each hospital to release 60 percent of the bed, which was later corrected for counties in mid-April, but by then the required ratio had to be met. That's why I'm looking for the April data in the NEA communication, which would tell me that we didn't have to free 2 percent of the beds. Dear Secretary of State, They have to account for every human fate. How many patients were sent home from hospitals?
u2020-06-02-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-06-02-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If we look at the success of the protection against the coronal virus, we can approach the issue from different directions. One is the number of dead people per million inhabitants. You know that, fortunately, Hungary is the most favourable one third of the European Union, we have half the same ratio, the proportion of people who have died per 1 million inhabitants as in Germany, or seventeen as in Sweden, or sixteen as in Belgium. But if you look at not only the patients with the coronal virus, but also the entire health system, honourable Member, you can compare the number of people who died in the first 18 weeks of this year with similar periods in previous years. This year, 46 510 people died in Hungary during the first 18 weeks, while if you look at the average of the last five years, you will find 49 673 people, on average that many died in the first 18 weeks of the year. So this year, 3163 fewer people died in the first 18 weeks of the year than the average of the previous five years. There is only one year of the last five years when this number is lower than this year, this number is higher than this year in the remaining four years. So in the health system, and obviously on the other side, but many people's lives have been saved, and therefore the number of people who died is lower. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The office manager of WHO in Hungary said that Hungary is doing very well to ensure maximum capacity in case of need, but there is hope that this maximum capacity will not be needed. As you pointed out, there was a need to provide a sufficient number of capacities, not per hospital, but per county, for expected coronal viral patients, because we saw the photos and videos from Spain, Italy or Sweden. We saw sick people sitting in the hallways waiting unattended. Hungary could not risk that. You know him, because he was told at a public video conference by scientists and virologists [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the capacity needed, which is why Hungary provided this capacity. I'll pick it up from here in a minute. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2020-06-02-109	Mr. Secretary. I would like us to focus on the issue on which a lot of people in this country are not seeing clearly. The Kasler plan provided for a very large rate of bed relief, in which many patients were left unattended. These problems will come forward in the future, and they are already coming up. I would also like to tell you that I am receiving requests on a daily basis that, starting from a spinal surgery patient to a patient with a 20-percent residual vision, you will not be receiving the treatment that would be needed to prevent permanent health damage. [[15.20]] On the one hand, I respectfully ask you when these people will finally get these treatments. On the other hand, be nice, understand what I'm saying: 58 percent was a nationwide ratio. The order of 7 April required the 60 percent release of beds for each hospital. Supposedly, you at the Ministry found out that you did something very brutal, and then, in mid-April, you corrected it to the county level, but by then, these patients had already been sent home. Who is responsible for this mistake? Where's the minister, Mr. Secretary? Who is responsible for this mistake?
u2020-06-02-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As I mentioned to you, WHO has agreed with the strategy to provide a sufficient number of beds for the care of patients with coronary viruses. You yourself pointed out that 62 health schools have decided who need urgent intervention and who do not. They gave a general guide, which can be read by everyone, for weeks on the Internet, and for months on end, it has been visible to everyone. On this basis, the doctors decided who could be delayed and who could not be delayed. Those who could not have delayed their intervention because they would have caused health damage if the intervention had delayed or, if necessary, had fatal consequences, they also performed the interventions in the previous weeks, since they had the necessary capacity in hospitals. At the same time, you pointed out that around 34 percent of the beds were free at the time of the outbreak, and that both the elective surgery, the planned and delayed surgery, and yet the patient's withdrawal, resulted in an additional 24 percent release. So the main task of the defense was to separate the coronal and non-coronal viral divisions, and to build ventilation and other capacities in the coronal viral parts. I apologize for the delay.
u2020-06-02-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári asked for a reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[On Dr. László Varga's mark:]] Congressman Varga says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-06-02-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In mid-April, the news came that, according to Minister Kásler's decision, 60 percent of the total existing 60,000 hospital beds should be suitable for the treatment of coronal viral infections; this affected some 36,000 beds in practice. In practice, this decision has started, in a large part and in large part, an evacuation process in countless parts of the country. My fellow Members and fellow political groups have spoken a great deal about these in their speeches, as this decision has resulted in outrageous cases affecting thousands of people. Today, of course, Minister would try to deny that. This is amazing in particular because, thanks to the sacrifice of healthcare workers and the discipline of Hungarian society, the number of active infected people was not even a fraction of the number of empty beds at the peak of the epidemic. Many have suspected that the decision was made and that the preparation of a later decision was this concrete decision, and that a significant part of the beds will be removed after the end of the epidemic. That is why I was concerned about a statement from the Director General of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital that I would inform the public that the epidemiological function of Semmelweis Hospital is expected to continue for a longer period of time. This is the member hospital that you've declared among the first to become an epidemic hospital. I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, to answer me clearly and answer the Miskolcs. Will you restore the original functions of the Semmelweis Hospital in Miskolc in order to provide adequate health care for the Miskolc and the people in the area, in the context of the ongoing re-launch of health care? My second question: will you restart the obstetrics and gynecology department in the Semmelweis Member's Hospital in its original form, and will you continue to operate it as before in the coming years? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-06-02-114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-06-02-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can no longer remember the exact amount, but I recall that the government has provided hundreds of millions, perhaps around half a billion forints, special support for the Miskolcs and the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county and those who have children, in the framework of the family-friendly maternity program, in order to raise the level of maternity benefits. So it is important for the government that Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County be as high-quality and family-friendly obstetrics as possible. Today, while maintaining epidemiological preparedness, the main task is to restart health care, which is now taking place at the third stage. The corona virus is here, both in Hungary and in Europe and in the world, and scientists share their views on whether it will be a second wave or not, but it must be prepared for that. That is why it is important to have an epidemiological alert, that the operational tribe continues to operate, that the system of managing hospitals through the operational strain continues, and that the chief officer has additional privileges. However, health care is gradually re-launching. As of June 1, yesterday, public health screenings, breast screenings, cervical cancer screenings, colon screenings, rectal screenings have been restarted, and the National Health Center has called in patients and test subjects at an agreed time, and a special programme of lung cancer screenings has been restarted. Already two weeks ago, the process of elective surgery or elective surgery that had been delayed was restarted, and one third of the beds previously reserved for patients with the coronary virus were allowed to start these treatments. Chronic benefits and cure-like benefits have also been gradually reinstated for two weeks, occupational health screenings, work fitness tests, other screenings, cardiovascular and oral screening tests started two weeks ago. In the past, as early as 4 May, dental, dental, dental, outpatient and diagnostic benefits have been started, subject to strict rules, taking into account the principle of gradualness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-116	I give the floor to the congressman for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I have to tell you he didn't answer. This is particularly problematic for me because the restored obstetrics of Semmelweis Hospital was delivered at the end of February 2010, during the socialist government and socialist city leadership. By the way, during the transitional period, I will only inform Mr. Secretary of State at Vasgyár Hospital that urban obstetrics operated under significantly worse conditions. In February 2010, there was a major development, which I remember because my oldest daughter was still born in the Iron Factory Hospital, and the younger one was in the significantly better conditions at Semmelweis Member Hospital. I see the value of this to the Miskolcs, and I see the value of it for the workers and the people in the area. Dear Secretary of State, I would definitely ask you, and you don't owe me an answer, but you owe these people an answer about what happens to obstetrics and what happens to Semmelweis Member's Hospital after the outbreak. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-06-02-118	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2020-06-02-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is only the obstetrics that, as I mentioned, I recall, received nearly half a billion forints of state aid in the last two or three years on the applications for family-friendly obstetrics. If I look at the entire hospital development, the establishment of the Starpoint Center is not only a billionaire, but a ten billion-dollar sum, which the government has devoted to the development of the hospital in the field of medical development in Miskolc and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. And if you look at the hospital now and look at it before 2010, I don't think you recognize it, the difference between the operation and organisation of the hospital is so great, not to mention that the government is doing a 20% wage increase in Miskolc in January this year as well as 14 percent in January, and then in the second half of the year, in November, the government is also doing a 20 percent wage increase in Miskolc, precisely to ensure that the level of care is as high as possible. Honourable Congressman, For weeks, months, and even years now, you have been trying to make political capital out of this situation, while the government has provided additional resources for the benefit of miskolc and county obstetrics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Why didn't the police disband the illegal protest in Budapest last Thursday evening? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra was entitled to reply to his absence. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Gergely Harvesto:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Arató. [[15.30]]
u2020-06-02-121	Mr. Secretary. In Budapest, two young men died in a knife attack. Our first word must be compassion for the families and friends of the victims, and I think I speak for all of us when I wish the perpetrators to be brought to justice as soon as possible and they will receive the legal, strict judgment. But as terrible as this event is, it does not justify any further violation of the law, and the protest that took place last Thursday in Budapest was obviously a violation. This demonstration could not have been carried out in the first place because of the epidemiological rules, and some of the protesters showed that they were racist and racist. The parade was clearly intimidating and instigating. Under the Assembly Act, the police must prohibit such demonstrations and, if they do, disband them. The law is 13. In the event of a direct, unnecessary and disproportionately dangerous assembly of public security or public order, the violation of the epidemiological rules is clearly such and must be prohibited even if it is capable of violating the dignity of the Hungarian nation, national, ethnic, racial or religious communities. Such a meeting is called the 18th. According to §, the police must disband even if there was room for a ban on the assembly, but they could not forbid it because of the announcement. The legal situation is therefore quite clear. Compared to this, the police, although making some criminal charges, basically assisted the protest, did not break it up in accordance with the law. My question, Mr. Secretary, is why. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-122	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2020-06-02-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to express my condolences and condolences to the relatives and families of those who died in the Deák Square crime. The government has always been in favour of strict criminal policy, but what has happened also draws attention to the fact that the use of drugs by young people poses a threat to society as a whole and that this serious issue needs to be addressed. The government has always condemned extremes, and the laws must be observed by everyone. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, Hungary is a free country, where freedom of assembly and freedom of assembly prevail, so the police can act in accordance with the necessary legislation. With regard to the incident mentioned in your question, the police considered the events on Dohány Street and Deák Square as separate events, as they were separate events. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes.]] While the former was regarded as a meeting, the latter as a memorial, the police took action accordingly. According to the Budapest Police Headquarters, it was an unscheduled event meeting in front of the National Roma Municipality. The police also pointed out that anyone who is at the scene of an emergency event is committing an offence. In order to ensure the meeting, the police withdrew with the necessary forces, six persons were produced during the assembly and during the assembly, and 34 more were dealt with with infractions. At the same time, according to the Budapest Police Headquarters, there was no event in Deák Square covered by the Assembly Act, the police considered that there was a memorial service, and members of a community mourned their comrades who had died a few days earlier in tragic circumstances. Previously, there were examples of people holding a memorial service shortly after the anniversary of a tragic event or its occurrence, and these were not once prevented by the police. The Deák Square Memorial [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] without violence, by lighting candles, by commemoration; by feeling sick [[The president's ringing again.]] no action has been taken outside the security measure. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is for the notary, Mr Gergely Arató, to speak.
u2020-06-02-125	Mr. Secretary. This answer was undoubtedly far more circumstantial than what the police had previously told me, but I must say that it is still false. The recordings I was talking about were not taken in Dohány Street, but in Deák Square, which also show that at least some of the participants at the event used this event for political protests, and in this case this is subject to the Assembly Act. I have to say that even the police knew this on Wednesday, the announcement from the Budapest Police Headquarters said that according to the Budapest Police Headquarters, the planned event was considered to be a meeting subject to the Assembly Act. I suspect that the police, which, by the way, imposed hundreds of thousands of penalties on Clark Adam Square, which pulled people out of their beds for two Facebook posts, and which, by the way, took place this weekend because of an extremely dangerous ventilation shaft painting on society, did not act on political instructions. That's my question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] why such political instructions were given [[The president's ringing again.]] to the police.
u2020-06-02-126	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall have the floor.
u2020-06-02-127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reject your statement that the police have acted on political orders. It's not customary in our administration, it was your practice. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right! Gergényi!]] when you were on the government. Remember the autumn of 2006, 23 October 2006, when the police were illegally used to defend their political power, and the peaceful celebrations, commemorating the 50th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, were attacked by the police at your command. So, honourable Member, [[Gergely Harvesto: Those peaceful protesters set the TV on fire!]] If you listen to me, I will be honored, I have listened to you, there is no double standard, the police in every city in Hungary are acting against every criminal for the sake of the safety of people's lives and property, for the sake of public safety, it guarantees the right of defence. Please leave the police alone. They've done a lot of harm to the police between 2002 and 10, so don't do that now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of the Queen of the West. Due to the absence of the Prime Minister, Mr.Péter Szijjártó granted the right to reply to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. I ask Congressman Ungár to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-06-02-129	I'd love to. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-130	It indicates that I would be happy to give you the floor. Here you go. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-131	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, It is very important that, now that we are beyond the first stage of the control of the coronal virus epidemic, we also thank the municipalities who have been in charge of the protection against the disease in the country. I think it is worth thanking the local government and municipal staff of Szombathely County City and the volunteers who even took part in this defense by masking. The fact is that the Mayor of the city of Szombathely, on the proposal of András Nemény in February when news was only coming from Italy, discussed various tasks against the coronal virus epidemic, and perhaps the most important part of these tasks was that the city had already allocated HUF 400 million quickly enough to enable unemployed people to receive a one-time grant of HUF 100,000, and that those who were simply in a difficult financial situation could receive HUF 57,000. This 400 million is quite an interesting proportion to the fact that the city with Szombathely county rights falls from 285 million forints a year because of the vehicle tax that the government has taken away from them, which is about 570 million if you look at the total budget, which means two years of operation of two kindergartens in Szombathely. The Prime Minister said earlier that Austria is a laboratory, and we will copy this Austrian laboratory. The Austrian Government recently announced that it had announced to local authorities a EUR 1 billion package of applications that the municipalities could apply for. My question is, if Austria is a laboratory, why does the Hungarian government withdraw from the municipalities, while the Austrian government gives, and why municipalities that, as a matter of fact, have gone beyond the budget because of the economic impact, do not receive any support, whether they give this one-time HUF 100,000 or HUF 57 thousand to the residents. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-132	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We agree that, regardless of his position, everyone involved in health or economic protection should be thanked for the measures that allowed him to contribute to the protection of the lives, health and jobs of the Hungarian people. [[15.40]] For our part, we have also established good cooperation with the municipalities. For six municipalities, we participated in the return of more than 200,000 masks donated from China. You referred to the municipality of Szombathely, and I would like to inform you with respect that I do not have statistics broken down from Vas County to Szombathely, but 11 companies from Vas County have submitted applications for support to the government's competitive aid application, resulting in the government's support for investments of Vas County companies up to EUR 800 000 up to half the investment value, allowing hundreds of jobs in several thousands of counties to be protected. I respectfully inform you that in the debate on next year's budget, we ourselves will consider an opportunity that would give the budget and the municipalities the opportunity to borrow money for their development plans, not necessarily because this is the Austrian example, but because we think that it is necessary to create the opportunity for the thoughtful farmers and disciplined farmers to develop further. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Ungár.
u2020-06-02-135	Thank you for the floor. It was very comforting that both Iron County jobs would be created and that the possibility of borrowing would arise even in Szombathely. I am very glad that this is a completely different tone than what Csaba Hende, the Member of the Szombathely region, said when, as a Member of Parliament, he was able to answer a journalist's question, that the amount that the government takes from the municipality is merely peanuts. I am very pleased that this is not the idea of the government: you consider this 570 million forints as not just peanuts, which means two years of maintenance of two kindergartens in Saturday. And I'm glad that Csaba Hende is, as always, alone in Fidesz. Thank you.
u2020-06-02-136	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, the pandemic has made it necessary for everyone to bear the burden of protection. That was the case, and so are the political parties, who have part of their budget in the epidemiological fund. Similarly, municipalities must bear part of the burden, as does the economic sphere, of course. I do not want to classify the extent of the contribution, but the point is that together, we have to tackle the challenges of the coronal virus together, and obviously the more successfully the municipalities defend themselves, the more effectively the country defends itself. I think there is no separate municipal, corporate, state and other defences, Hungary, the Hungarian people must be protected, and we would have liked to have received the support of the opposition or received it here in the Parliament. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr.Péter Szijjártó granted the right to reply. I ask Congressman Tordai to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-06-02-139	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-06-02-140	It says yes. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2020-06-02-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The pandemic and the economic crisis that followed it have shown that there are two completely different political philosophies, a political direction in the governance of the countries now. One is the path of decent, decent humanists [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Soros! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell him Soros!]] where social policy is aimed at reducing inequalities, fair public burdens, decent wages and pensions and, ideally, the introduction of basic income guaranteeing life security, this is typical; as Spain decided this weekend to introduce the basic income for which 2.3 million people will be entitled from mid-June. The social policy of this path can be described in terms of peace, cohesion and equal dignity. The other way is the path of corrupt, authoritarian populists, where economic policy consists of austerity and theft, and social policy operates with the means of sharing, exclusion and hatred, and unfortunately we have to see that the Fidesz government has chosen this direction in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Excellent CEU performance!]] The budget shows that the Fidesz withdraws money from all important areas, education, health care and social care, while other treasurers of Lőrinc Mészáros and Viktor Orbán split hundreds and thousands of billions from the common wealth. In the same way, instead of seeking reconciliation, they play to divide, exclude, and pursue a hate policy with the consequences of which we live in our everyday lives. Minister, the short question is that at last the government has gone off the path of corrupt, authoritarian, populists, and has abandoned the policy of austerity and theft, division, exclusion and hatred. Can we hope that they will finally turn Hungary's chariot in a direction where a happier life awaits Hungarian people? I look forward to your reply. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not yet, not yet, don't stop. Applause! All Democrats applaud.]]
u2020-06-02-142	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Szijjártó.
u2020-06-02-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, While you were talking about two economic philosophy approaches, I think there are at least three. The first thing he talked about, and I am not an officer, and I would not particularly like to criticise the economic policies of other countries from this position, but the first thing you have talked about, you can see the extent to which some countries in South Europe suffer from debt and budget deficits, how they lock themselves in a very narrow field of economic policy, where the degree of freedom of decisions is, I think, quite strongly restrained. Indebtedness usually leads to vulnerability and a narrow margin of movement. Then you mentioned a second type of economic policy, and this was an example in Hungary, which was completed ten years ago. For the eight years before 2010, the description you gave me is broadly correct. And there's a third kind of approach. This is a patriotic, patriotic economic policy, where the national interest is dominant, where decisions are made in accordance with the interests of the national economy and the national strategy. I agree with you that this type of policy must be based on cooperation. However, I find it difficult to imagine a greater purpose, especially now, in terms of cooperation, than that of people having jobs, protecting jobs at risk, and creating new jobs. Look, we can debate philosophy here, of course, but it is true that every year since 2014 we have broken the current national economic record of investments in Hungary in the Hungarian economy, and this year we will do everything we can to ensure that Hungary remains the most attractive investment site in Central Europe. Because I think this is the most important goal that we need to work together: people should have jobs and we should protect existing jobs. I believe in this patriot economic policy, respecting that you prefer another way. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Tordai.
u2020-06-02-145	Minister, that's my bad news. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: More demagoguery, more!]] The fact that Lőrinc Mészáros's filling of public funds in a corrupt way is not patriotic economic policy, and if he has a problem with the issue of indebtedness and the surrender of sovereignty, he may want to review Paks II's secret investments and projects of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line leading to debt and vulnerability to the Russians. But I was talking not only about economic policy, but also about social policy, and the tragedies that have exacerbated the news over the last few weeks are unfortunately the direct consequences of Fidesz continuing its hate policy ten years ago. Racist, anti-Semitic, anti-alien, anti-female outbursts, laws against LGBTQ people over the last ten years, and the most serious crimes are outsourced to their neo-Nazi branch party Mi Hazank and football ultras moving on the Kubatov-Bede Zsolt axis. I think it's a shame, a disgrace, and this gentleman needs to be removed very quickly. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Those are not soccer ultras! Dr. Bence Rétvári: A lot of people are clapping right now!]] [[15.50]]
u2020-06-02-146	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-06-02-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The attack on a relatively wide front of Hungarian society, I cannot protect everyone in the next 49 seconds, but what I can tell you is that at the beginning of this year we could say that as many people in Hungary have never worked since the change of regime. I think we can see this as a big joint success. We did not tax the country because we finance large investments, investments that increase Hungary's strength, energy security and the central role of logistics. Nothing is secretly happening, the Parliament voted on the Paks contracts, not to mention that it is a project of great international cooperation, because alongside the Russian main contractor, U.S., German and French subcontractors are building the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. And I must reject racist and other accusations as strongly as possible. It's unworthy. You can't answer that question in eight seconds. However, that the Government of Hungary would advocate racism or anti-Semitism in any way, I must reject it as strongly as possible.
u2020-06-02-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Csaba Nagy, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "How is the protection against the Crown Virus now?" It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Csaba Nagy: Yes, I accept. Thank you very much, Mr. President.]] Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman Csaba Nagy.
u2020-06-02-149	Dear Secretary of State, We can safely say that Hungary is successfully over the first phase of the fight against the epidemic. This is thanks, on the one hand, to the fact that our country has taken strict measures in time, as a result of which it is one of the few countries where the period of mass diseases has not occurred, and, on the other hand, to the honour of our excellent health professionals and those fighting in the front line. It is sad, however, that we could not count on the Balliberal parties. In a time of distress, they did not support the law that created the conditions for effective protection, nor did they engage in defence, but did they attack the government and the defence professionals without stopping. There is nothing new during the day when we read in the press that opposition-led municipalities are firing us, while local taxes are being raised, monthly salaries are being reduced, and hypocrites are being made with friends to enter into good-pay contracts. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Aren't the Fidesz municipalities?]] It's outrageous that [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Why don't you talk about that?]] Social liberals are once again reaching out to the crisis management methods that have already increased unemployment and deepened poverty. They all left a painful mark in society. For the Hungarian people, however, what the government is doing is supporting the preservation of jobs, creating new ones, reducing taxes and providing wage support. It is worrying that the left is criticizing the preparedness of the health care system, the work of the operational tribe, with one in eight working beds being removed in hospitals at the time of its administration, 650 billion forints were taken from health care, and thousands of doctors and health workers were dismissed. Social Beralians took the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners. The real value of pensions fell by about 4 percent between 2006 and ....10. The Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments have taken the pension system to the brink of collapse, but they are now detracting from the measure that the government can return the 13th month pension to help our elderly countrymen. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how is the protection against the Crown Virus now? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-150	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Nagy. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2020-06-02-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I can inform you that on 2 June 2020 the number of people infected with the coronal virus was 1229, 2160 were cured, there have unfortunately been 532 deaths in the epidemic, and the number of coronal virus tests carried out is around 190,000. From these data, it is clear that the coronal virus epidemic is decreasing, and on 4 May the number of active infected people started to decline. Today, we also know that after the alleviations, the number of infections has not increased significantly, thank God. If we look at these data in an international comparison, it is quite clear that our country has tested well, we have managed to avoid the period of mass diseases following individual and group diseases. I think this is due to the national cooperation from which everyone has taken their part, taking part in health care workers, workers in the social sector, taking part in law enforcement agencies, and everyone whose life, work, has been made difficult by the new situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic. We are grateful for this and we thank everyone. We would like to ask that responsible behaviour and compliance with the protection measures in force remain important. What the congressman said is undoubtedly true. Unfortunately, the opposition parties did not participate in this national cooperation, and they did not support the law on the protection of the Crown Virus, which was necessary in an eminent manner in order to be able to make decisions in a timely and timely manner to protect human life, human health and jobs. It's sad, but it's real. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Csaba Nagy.
u2020-06-02-153	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I think the government has made very important decisions. I also consider it very important that in my constituency, Baranya, there are three hospitals, the island, the Harkányi and the Siklós, where the workers will receive the one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. I also think that not only in Budapest, but also in rural Hungary, health care workers have done everything in their power to ensure that this epidemic situation is managed as well as possible from the point of view of health care. I am very pleased that rural companies have also been able to apply for competitive investment. Perhaps another closing thought that I would like to tell you. I am also pleased that the government has also decided to support investments that affect the extension or development of our daily lives. In my constituency, the Dorottya Primary School of Kanizsai, the Batthyány Kázmér School and the Géza Kiss Primary School of Sellyén received an investment grant of HUF 200 million during this epidemic period. We thank the government for its support so far. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-154	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Balázs Orbán Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-155	Thank you very much for your suggestions, Congressman. There's one thing I'd like to tell you, too. We believe that the protection against the epidemic has not been completed. We must be prepared to face the possibility of a second and third wave of the epidemic. Governance and legislation are also taking place accordingly. If you only think about the 2021 budget, that is why we created the health insurance and disease protection fund with about HUF 3000 billion and the economic protection fund with more than HUF 2200 billion. I would also like to stress that the support for health in budget 21 is therefore expected to increase by HUF 156 billion. There is also work to be done by Parliament, in addition to taking back the government's authority to control the coronal virus, it has to adopt rules on epidemiological preparedness. In this, I would like to ask for the support of all Members, and we hope that this time we will be able to avoid the unworthy political attacks and accusations that we met from the opposition parties in the beginning of March. Let's do this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-156	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: why is the government sabotaging the housing programme of young people? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes.]] It says yes. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2020-06-02-157	Mr President, Dear House, Looking at the budget draft for the following year, we see a huge deficiency, a public-based housing programme, and although we can see that there has been a lot of debate between us and the CSOK, it should be said that those who use the CSOK in a fortunate way typically come out of the upper middle class or from among our richer compatriots. A Hungarian youth in a typical living situation with a salary of 150-180-200 thousand HUF is unlikely to be eligible for the CSOK and cannot buy a newly built residential property. But in the midst of amazing rental conditions, you have to pay brutal prices on a monthly basis. For Deloitte experts, by the way, if Mr.Secretary opens the News Seeker's newly published measurement, Hungary will be able to present the third worst situation in the whole of Europe in this area. [[16.00]] We see that about half of the tenants are forced to spend more than 40 percent of their income on housing costs, and typically not to support or acquire their own property, but to pay rent. This is developed by a record 27 per cent VAT, which is developed by the stunning housing cataclysm and the elimination of state leg support for housing savings. The question therefore arises, Mr Secretary of State, while the Association for Housing Constructions assessed among Hungarian young people aged 18-35, among young people in Budapest and metropolitan areas that there is a need for a public-based rental program, 96 percent said that yes, the government should address this issue. Mr State Secretary, here are two thirds: 67 percent and more than two thirds of Hungarian youth said that as a claimant they would be very happy to participate in a state-based rental system with reduced rents. Will the government finally be open to this, or will another year pass by betraying the Hungarian future? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-02-158	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-06-02-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, I would like to talk about the circumstances that have affected the government over the past ten years to come up with a real, real home-building programme. The first thing that had to be resolved was the foreign exchange credit crisis. Millions of Hungarians, millions, more than one million Hungarian families, were in serious difficulties in paying due to foreign exchange loans. By the way, you have partly agreed to settle this. When this was settled, it was only after that, when the Hungarian families were on sound financial foundations, then the government's real home creation program could be started. This started in 2015. Here, I would like to make a fundamental distinction between the two ideas that you and you, the right-wingers, are likely to make, although you are always speaking on this matter only and what the government represents. The government says that the Hungarian people's internal custom and practice developed in such a way that they want to have their own apartment, so the government also adapts its home creation program to this idea, to this real Hungarian thought, that they do not like to live and live in the property of anyone else. According to this, the home creation program, which we introduced for the first time from July 1, 2015 was the family home creation discount, which gave the families HUF 435 billion. With the family protection programme launched on 1 July 2019, the government also supports more than ever the start of a single life of Hungarian youth, the creation of existentiality and the promotion of children's plans. It is also very important that the government has introduced reduced VAT of 5% for the construction of new apartments. Indeed, the Hungarian government has taken serious steps to give Hungarian families a home of their own. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-02-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-161	Mr. Secretary. The seriousness of the preparation is characterized by the fact that what you now refer to in the form of a preferential flat tax is now being driven out of the Hungarian market. According to the profession, this reduces the volume and transfer of newly built apartments by another 20-25 percent. Please be more prepared when preparing a professional response. What you're saying is that the real Hungarian idea that Hungarian young people want their own apartments more than their own apartments, Mr. Secretary of State, is to come back from beyond the Stargate. Well, everyone would prefer a private apartment, everyone would like a castle, but some people didn't start out like you, not with scholarship and not with international support, but, if necessary, with a sublet. Well, you have no message for hundreds of thousands of Hungarians! Well, they can't say anything to young Hungarians living in their apartments, families who are not lucky enough to buy a newly built apartment with CSOK! Well, you guys give up all social groups in a chemically pure neoliberal way. It's a disgrace and a disgrace, Mr. Secretary. If you take this question seriously, come up with a measurable, meaningful message, not only from the upper middle class up, but for all Hungarian young people, because this is Hungarian interest. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-02-162	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not rate your readiness, but one fact is that in Hungary tens of thousands of homes were built with reduced VAT of 5%. Now that it's gone, that's another question. Instead, the government is thinking that it will grant the same VAT discount in urban brownfield zones after consulting the municipalities. We'll come back to that, by the way. If you'll allow me, I'd like to tell you in the half-minute remaining time that the baby shower support scheme, which has been used by 71,000 people so far, is also being used for housing based on surveys. It has a budget of HUF 10 million. So it's also a big help. Then, in small settlements, the 10 million HUF for the purchase and expansion of the used apartment, plus 5 million HUF for the expansion, this is called the village CSOK. And I could tell you in a row how many families the government's decisions have reached and how many families it has helped me to tell you once more that it has its own home and home. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-02-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Földi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. How does the government support local producers? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr Sándor Farkas gave the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-06-02-165	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-06-02-166	It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. László Földi, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The negative economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic will not escape our country, but protection against the epidemic could also speed up positive processes that would have been possible for a long time, regardless of the current pandemic. In education, the coronal virus epidemic forced the digital curriculum to be introduced, and it is safe to say that, despite initial difficulties, the transition is successful. During the emergency, many companies have switched to remote work, for example, and the experience there is also very positive. In addition to the difficulties arising from the coronal virus, the Hungarian agriculture was also affected by frost damage and drought in March and April. Two weeks ago, our Fraction asked Minister about government measures and subsidies in connection with the Crown Virus, and we were pleased to hear that the government provided an additional HUF 25 billion to agricultural enterprises in order to combat the crisis. It is also gratifying that our food production is of paramount importance during the epidemic and that we can clearly and perfectly provide sufficient food, safe food materials for all within and outside the borders. Dear Secretary of State, Local products always strengthen the local economy and can mean the livelihood of many families. Therefore, KDNP welcomes the opening of the car producer market by the Bagon of Pest County, which, while complying with the epidemiological requirements, allows domestic small and prehistoric producers to sell the agricultural and food products they produce from domestic farms, so that healthy Hungarian goods can reach consumers directly within the shortest possible means of complying with the required hygiene requirements. KDNP supports any such local initiative for Hungarian producers and products. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask Mr Secretary of State how the government continues to support local producers. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-02-168	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't realize you were running out of time. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-02-169	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, We can all think that at the moment of the outbreak of the corona virus, perhaps the role of different markets was not important, but life was different. In the life of rural and even urban markets, we can adopt these markets as a safe place, where small and ancient producers and buyers are, if I may say, a common platform, if I may say so. [[16.10]] That is because a significant proportion of small and ancient producers in these markets were able to sell and sell their products, and from the very first moment on, the Ministry of Agriculture has been trying to keep these markets open, and in these markets they can make appropriate trades, sales, and not least because a significant proportion of producers have received income and consumers have obtained safe food. However, it should also be said that the opening-up of these markets in many municipalities has caused difficulties under local government regulations. The Ministry has always asked these actors to facilitate the opening of these production routes, of these markets, in a flexible manner, in compliance with the precautions and in full compliance with them, even in terms of time limits. I believe that the success of the last few days and weeks also shows that this measure has worked well and still works well. And perhaps we can also say that a new platform, an Internet world, has also been opened in this area, in which 238 small producers have registered, and on the surface there have been more than 13 thousand clicks, which means that these markets are also in the Internet world. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] continued to increase the effect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor back to Congressman in a minute.
u2020-06-02-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State. As a rural person, I live in a rural settlement, there are ten settlements in the constituency, and every such settlement has a producer market. I regularly go to the market, and I have now seen, for example, in relation to strawberry season, how they really could be younger, older in these markets, for example, to give up strawberries. It's not pejorative, of course. But so were the early vegetables, and so will they, I hope, in the future. I am very confident that these markets have found that the local authorities have taken very well the instructions that both the operational tribe and the government have taken to ensure that these markets can really keep open and function properly. I hope that will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you again for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State's rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, In the previous two minutes, you were also talking about the government's economic protection plan, which I would also like to confirm is that you are helping agricultural and food businesses by HUF 25 billion, and, of course, you are also available to provide additional benefits in order to alleviate the current situation, and you are trying to help the producer circle. I am thinking, in a significant part, of the response to ornamental gardeners, gardeners, livestock farmers and the causes of various market disturbances, and not least on animal health issues, this programme can be of great help. However, even when returning to the markets, we have to say that these markets have been built with significant State aid under different programmes and have almost tripled since 2012, the operation, creation of these markets, and we also want this to continue to grow at a similar rate. As this is more than a market, local community space is also all markets in the life of a small settlement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question will take place. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is the truth? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2020-06-02-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, many things have hit the Hungarian families. I would like to mention one thing, which I have been pushing for in March, and Mr Secretary of State has also answered my question about the extent to which prices for food have been freed in Hungary, but we could even talk about the increase in the prices of cleaning products in recent months. But let's see now how food prices in Hungary have evolved over 12 months, over the last year, compared to April 2019. Food prices increased by 8.7 percent, including pork by 28.9 percent, Paris, sausage by 22,3 percent, seasonal food by potato, fresh vegetables, fruit by 15.1 percent, sugar by 14.1 percent, salami, dry sausage and ham by 12.5 percent. Allow me, Mr Secretary, to say in numbers what this means for a Hungarian family. In January 2019 a kilo of pork cost 1600 HUF, while in April now it cost 1900 HUF. The ham was 2340 forints, now 2750 forints. Paris was 1580 forints a year ago, 1940 forints now. The oil was 489 forints, now 504 forints a litre. The flour went from 158 HUF to 171 HUF. Bread from 308 forints to 345 forints. Secretary of State told me that Mr. III. On the 9th of the month, because I also asked the Secretary of State about the reduction in fuel prices, he has gone down drastically over the past months and will be applying for the price of these products. Secretary of State, this has not happened. Nothing happened. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And let me ask you one more question, Mr President, how many investigations have been launched because of unfair market players, and what has been the result, Mr Secretary of State. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-06-02-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai.
u2020-06-02-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I cannot answer your question about the latter, because it is not the responsibility and responsibility of our wallets. As far as price changes are concerned, inflation was 2.4 percent in April, despite what you said. True, in the month before that, inflation in Hungary decreased by 3.9 percent, i.e. by 1.5 percent in one month. True, inflation calculation is a complicated, complex thing. You have just highlighted a chapter, a product group, food and price increases. In the same period, I am supporting the change in the price of fuels, which, in turn, has decreased significantly and people have also consumed fuel. They paid less for fuel, yes, more for food. And you are also right, although you did not say that pensioner inflation exceeded the average rate of inflation, because pensioner inflation at this time was 3.3 percent, because they simply had more food and less fuel in their product group, which they were eating. I think that, obviously, in your speech, you wanted to exert some kind of government accountability, pressure to intervene, or I don't know what to do with food prices. Food prices are shaped by non-official prices, market conditions, market conditions, such as the plague with regard to pigmeat, logistical difficulties in fruit, problems caused by the coronal virus, and also changes in the forint exchange rate. I think that [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] price changes are cyclical, and we should always look at how this affects Hungarian society overall. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've listed food prices because it's the most we spend a month on food, which is the best way to determine what it's going to be left in families after the bills are paid. Mr Secretary of State said that there is a market economy. Then let me draw your attention to the fact that you intervened in 2017, when the residents of Fölkövesd asked for a high price of petrol, and interestingly only Mezőkövesden you intervened at government level and reduced the price of petrol by 11 forints and your diesel by five forints, then you were able to intervene at the request of the inhabitants of Főkövesd. [[16.20]] Mr State Secretary, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that there was no justification for this kind of price increase and, moreover, there were unfair market players who have taken advantage of the epidemic situation in a brutal way to increase the price of their products during this period. Secretary of State, I'm afraid I can't accept that separately. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Telling me you don't know how many tests have been started. We've asked you in writing several times, and I think as Secretary of State, as a government actor, you should know that. [[The president's ringing again.]] the number of market participants who have acted unfairly during this period. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-06-02-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State's one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-06-02-181	Madam Member, I have not interfered in anything, I have done my job as a representative. In the field, the price of fuel was 50 forints more expensive than, say, in the neighbouring Eger, and we simply indicated to MOL what the reason was, and MOL itself decided that it was true and changed. So there was no interference, it couldn't have been otherwise. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I'm sorry, you're always attacking the Treasury Department with food prices. The Ministry of Finance can do one thing: reduce taxes, reduce VAT and thus lower prices. (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.) Now I have to tell you again that in 2015 Parliament voted on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance to reduce the VAT on pigmeat from 27 percent to 5. You voted for it? No. And I can list the reduction in the VAT on poultrymeat, the reduction in the VAT on fresh milk, the VAT on eggs, the reduction in the VAT on fish meat. You're complaining here that it's expensive, expensive, expensive, but by the way, when you have to press a yes button, it's just because Fidesz put it up, you don't press it, and then you take the government's job into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, these items will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. I call on my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order as provided for in the previously published Director General's Information. I call on the Members involved in the debate to remain in the Chamber only if possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, who have spoken in the debate and who are applying for two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting shall, if necessary, provide them with information. Dear Parliament, Next, the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company will be XLII in 1994. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10217. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-06-02-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 28 May 2020 XLII discussed the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company 1994. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service T/1021 on the amendment of Act T/1021 A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Export-Import Bank Private Limited Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Private Limited Company aim to provide efficient financing and insurance arrangements for Hungarian exporters. The mission of Eximbank and Mehib is to support domestic exporting companies as economic policy incentives, helping to preserve jobs, increase employment and increase Hungarian export capacities. The aim of the bill is to register an investment ticket in addition to the internal and foreign venture and private equity funds of Eximbank in connection with the establishment or accession of a real estate fund. Eximbank can finance domestic real estate development companies by investing in real estate funds by contributing to the development and operation of industrial, tourism and office property purchased from the capital of these funds in areas outside our borders, in line with the objectives set out in the investment policy. LXXIII of 2016 on foreign representations and permanent external service The amendment of the Act requires changes of a technical nature, as well as amendments to the Act on the right to social security benefits and on the coverage of these benefits, as well as to the Act on Government Administration, which took place in January 2020. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains forward-looking provisions, since the objectives of the national export strategy include the establishment of the fastest and most market-driven export financing system in Hungary by 2030 in Central Europe. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-02-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, points out that he now wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. I would like to point out to Minister that you have a 15-minute time frame with the closing word.
u2020-06-02-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian economy is one of the ten most open economies in the world. The share of our exports and our GDP exceeded 86.5 percent. External factors largely determine the performance of the Hungarian national economy. In the last five years, we have broken the national economy record for exports, and although we only have the 92nd largest population, the 34th largest export performance in the world is ours, and we are one of the 35 countries that can export over EUR 100 billion a year. In this respect, however, we must not sit on our own laurels. Hungarian goods and services are constantly exposed to competition in international markets, so new arguments are constantly needed, new and new subsidies are needed to keep the international competitiveness of Hungarian goods and services on an ever-increasing level. Central Europe's fastest and most efficient export support system, most tailored to market needs, has been established in Hungary, but we want to further reduce the administrative burden for both companies and Eximbank by further amending the Exim Act in order to enable exporting companies to obtain funding as quickly and as easily as possible. I would like to tell you that Eximbank has so far only been able to register investment tickets for internal and foreign venture capital and private equity funds, but now with this amendment, we would create the possibility of doing so for the establishment of a real estate fund. [[16.30]] In this way, we could practically finance domestic real estate management, real estate development companies, who would have the opportunity to participate in the development, operation of industrial, tourist or office buildings abroad, sell technologies, services developed in Hungary and market innovative Hungarian construction solutions. They are essentially low-risk investments, given the complex portfolio and its well-structured nature. Here I also respectfully inform you that the purpose of our bill is to ensure that Eximbank can provide guarantees and guarantees, in accordance with international practice, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the separate legislation, under State guarantee, which would also result in a reduction of administrative burdens for Hungarian companies. I would also like to inform you that a number of commercial banks have reached the limit above which they can no longer lend. If we cannot give new impetus to lending, important economic development resources will fall out of the eyes of companies, and it is therefore of particular importance for us that commercial banks co-finance eximbanki programmes. This is also possible by this bill, so commercial banks can issue credit products beyond their current limit. However, we also want to amend the Foreign Service Act. In view of the fact that our long-term external service colleagues are subject to two laws at the same time in their work, namely the law on government administration and foreign representations and long-term external service, there are problems of coherence in such cases, which clearly need to be resolved. This requires a technical amendment, since the Law on Government Administration has previously allowed officials aged 50 and over three extra days a year, but this has not been carried over to those who perform external service. We can now address this issue, just as an adoption fee has been included in the Social Insurance and Pensions Act, which also needs to be passed on to those who are currently involved in external service, is being implemented. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Parliament to support this bill, partly to increase the export performance of Hungary, partly to further finance Hungarian companies involved in real estate management and real estate operations, and also to guarantee equal treatment for those performing the foreign service. Thank you very much for your attention. My colleague, State Secretary Tamás Vargha, will be at your disposal for the rest of the debate, and then, for about ten minutes, I have left, he will answer the questions and suggestions of his representatives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-186	Thank you, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-02-187	Mr President, Dear House, It is rare to have a detailed debate, if only at the beginning, with the presence of a minister. Since we have been given correct answers to fundamentally correct questions, I also try with sufficient restraint, rather than putting the political adjectives in the background and putting professional arguments first, I am not saying that we should debate what has just been said, but perhaps put it in a slightly different light. A sober and normal Hungarian public figure, when it comes to the possible increase in export performance, can only act and comment in a supportive manner, it is quite clear. However, what we have just said, especially the development of real estate and the expansion of the real estate portfolio, is not likely to be one of the narrowest and usual forms of the core activities of Eximbank, which is why we can see that, although we agree in certain statements, for example, that the ten most open, exposed or vulnerable economies of the world, according to the Minister, are Hungarian, I see that in addition to an incredibly combative internal rhetoric, some elements of which can even be supported by a well-informed Hungarian person, the behaviour of this government is quite different on the way out. And this is where we begin to complain, because this exposed economy has been incredibly delivered to multinational companies who have not been included in the scope of public burdens, have not been pulled in, and when we talked about how, through economic activity beyond our borders, the network of Hungarian companies has been able to expand, unfortunately we have not been able to report any breakthroughs here. With regard to the anniversary of the Trianon shame, I should also mention that there are local companies, whether already known as multi-company companies, but neither in MOL or OTP units is a general requirement, nor does it always appear that after their activities in cross-border areas, let us say, the business tax is directed, directed, and not, say, to Bucharest, the Hungarian majority and Hungarian inhabitants of a subsidiary company. So what we see is that there are problems in this system even in terms of basics, and there are even bigger problems when we go to real estate development areas. What the system of real estate development means in Hungary and in the last ten years has already been experienced by a large mass of foreign exchange victims at their own expense, and we do not want them to experience more. But what we see is that, at this moment and at this historic moment, when we are in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, we are not sure, and it is not necessarily necessary, to spend serious billions to support, expand and expand the portfolio of real estate. I am always in favour of exporting from intelligent and value-creating economic activity, generating additional revenues, so God forbid that the appearance of anti-economicism is stuck here with any Member who will comment on this debate, but must be able to prioritize it, my fellow Member. If the expansion of the real estate portfolio means that fair Hungarian large entrepreneurs can catch in sound productive investments through a bank credit line made available, say in neighbouring countries, and the profit of this is not only coming home at company level, but also at the Hungarian national economy, I would say that this is a legitimate debate. When it comes to the fact that the oligarchs familiar with Hungary, who, let's say, are building residential parks, despite the change ban, who own a large portion of the real estate investment, are now receiving bonus support to expand and expand more easily in other countries in Hungary, then I'm not sure that my support can be so specific. And I understand the warlike rhetoric, but I am a little surprised, because this exposed economy is committed to Russia in the meantime with a very strong mega-credit for Paks, and now this government is also committed to China in connection with the Budapest-Belgrade investment by a brutal mega-credit, and although it is very, very fortunate that they do not want to buy eternal bonds and be indebted forever, but, fellow Members, this is the warlike one, and I know that this will be strange for me, the government which, by its own hair, is going to take on a mega-credit from the European Union in the next period. Now, when the SURE is going down and when they're going to sign the paperwork, it's a detail question, but a hundred billion-dollar loan will be taken from this third direction. Once again, I say that this is all debateable, because if it's about saving the mass of Hungarian jobs, then there are many arguments for it, but I can't really put the warlike rhetoric together by slowly devoting Hungary to 1500 world landscapes. There are places where I can see the reason, and let's say we can discuss the protection of jobs, but there are some places we can't, because the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is an investment that is difficult to explain and economic rationality. As the Minister for Economic Affairs said, it is therefore not certain that he would need additional support for housing development oligarchs at the moment. But once again, if you could convince us that intelligent investment in the real estate market would take place, then perhaps the opposition could be more lenient. This intention of persuasion has not yet occurred, we have not heard any arguments that could have shaken what we have said, but in this detailed debate, in a positive case, it may be up to three quarters of an hour, and we do not give up our hopes or let them vanish. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2020-06-02-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha, who is sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-02-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Karpat and I have already started this debate, and I think we may have had it. It is indeed what Mr President has summarised here that it is about helping Eximbank to make real estate investments across the border and to join real estate investment portfolios. The other points raised by the Member, I think, as in the previous debate, do not go all the way here, in this debate. Let us not go before the events of what will happen to the borrowing planned by the European Union, the European Commission, and how it will develop. The stingy countries represent something else, we have a position too, let's not advance on how this ends. As regards the investments of Budapest-Belgrád and Paks, we have often explained the benefits and benefits they will bring to Hungary in the long term. Thank you very much for your support so far. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this bill in the vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to amend EU legislation on the control of the acquisition and possession of arms for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. Government referral T/10310. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-06-02-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 28 May 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10310 amending certain laws for the purposes of harmonisation relating to the amendment of EU law on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, no votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the proposed legislation is to comply with the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from the amendment of Council Directive 91/477/EEC of 1 June 1991 on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. To this end, the proposal introduces fundamental changes to Article XXIV of 2004 on firearms and ammunition. It also amends the Code of Violation and the Btk. in law and in accordance with them. Firearms are also included in the scope of EU requirements and will be subject to stricter rules in terms of acquisition, maintenance and storage. As of 1 January 2023, only gas and alarm weapons complying with stricter technical criteria will be allowed to be released into free circulation, and therefore self-defense weapons suitable for the launch of rubber projectiles will no longer be available. The rules on the issue and review of firearms permits, as well as the rules on the acquisition of arms in relation to the maximum permitted storage capacity and age are also being tightened. In order to increase the safety of trade, under the new rules, traders will be required to report to the authorities if they detect suspicious weapons transactions by their nature or scale or, in the case of specific concerns, unilaterally refuse to carry out transactions that may be considered as such. I'm not going to go on with the planned changes. In view of the proposal as a whole, it can be seen that the author only transposes into the domestic legal order the details of the EU directives that are strictly required by the legislation of the Member States. There is an effort to comply with the obligations in a moderate and as far as possible with the current rules, since the current regulatory framework is appropriate, it is particularly good for the safety of the population, as it strikes the right balance between the different demands for the maintenance of arms and the restrictions required by public security. The moderate introduction of the restrictive measures required by the EU will in any case increase our protection against the weapons that have been used to kill people and the security of legal arms trade by means of illegal conversions, without unduly restricting the possibilities of possession and use of weapons in the fields of self-defence, sports shooting or even theatre and cinema. Dear House, In view of the arguments put forward, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-02-192	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. This would be the time for the speeches by the Members, if there were any candidates, but no candidates. Again, there's someone who wants to talk to him. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, This part of the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors.
u2020-06-02-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support for the bill at the first stage of the debate. This law serves to fulfil an obligation to harmonise EU legislation. It will, of course, also serve the fight against terrorism and facilitate the effectiveness of public authorities' action against possible abuses that pose a threat to public security. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this important bill in the final vote as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-194	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/10303. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-06-02-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/10303 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 1. [[16.50]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted by 30 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, According to the definition of the law, nationality is defined by any ethnic group resident in Hungary for at least a century, which has been in a numerical minority among the population of the state, and is distinguished from the rest of the population by its own language, culture and traditions, and also by a sense of belonging that is aimed at preserving all of this, expressing and protecting the interests of their historically established communities. The Fundamental Law of Hungary XXIX. It also states that nationalities living in our country are state-creating factors, that any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her own identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach their native language. It was also recorded at a constitutional level that nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments; what is more, it is also exemplary that the presence of nationalities in Hungary has been ensured in the National Assembly since 2014 according to a fundamental law. Allow me, my fellow Members, to quote the thought of our late minister, József Eötvös, who is a former minister of the cult, to begin with, whether from the general interests of the country or from the specific interests of individual nationalities, with a calm view of the matter, only one conviction, and this is that the interests of the historical and political nation can only be assured if the needs of every ethnicity in the language are satisfied; and that, however, the needs of nationalities in different languages can only be satisfied if the country's unity and state existence are assured. I believe that this idea is a good example of the need for the government to work closely together with our native nationalities in implementing fundamental national interests and making decisions determining the country's fate. Dear House, Returning to the proposed amendment before us, it should be stressed that the movable and immovable property for the performance of the tasks of the public education institution should be transferred to the owner of the national minority self-government, free of charge, immediately after taking up its duties, but not later than the beginning of the academic year. According to the proposal, from the general election of the representatives of the minority self-government in 2024 the election of the representatives of the local minority self-government should be set if the national minority self-government considers it necessary to administer the self-government of the minority community of that municipality. The decision can be made on the basis of two factors: on the one hand, examining the degree of self-organization of nationality in the settlement and, on the other hand, the duration of nationality in the settlement. In the former case, it is appropriate to take into account the fact that it operates properly in a given settlement as a nationality foundation or a minority association, but the national minority government is also obliged to consult the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Unlike the conditions described, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should also be made if the number of persons belonging to that nationality reaches 25 persons in the settlement and the local government is in operation. Dear Parliament, It is to be welcomed that the voluntary public tasks of national minority authorities will be complemented in the future by the establishment and maintenance of the social institution, which will enable our fellow nationalities to experience their ethnic identity in their elderly and needy age. Dear House, In 2010, Hungary's Government decided to maintain close contact with our national governments in the pursuit of our country's interests and in achieving our common goals, who increased the common cultural heritage of the Hungarian nation with both their culture and traditions. In my view, the proposal on the House's table will guarantee an even higher level of protection of the identity of nationalities in Hungary and their rights. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2020-06-02-196	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. Dear Parliament, I will ask the representative of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary that you are in the closing session... [[For signal:]] He wants to speak up both times. You have the floor, Congressman Imre Ritter.
u2020-06-02-197	Thank you very much. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Bitte erlauben Sie mir, dass ich Sie, im Namen des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, als Unterbreiter der Gesetzesmodifizierung Nr. T/10303. des von 2011 über die Rechte der Nationalitäten Gesetztes CLXXIX begrüße. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as T/10303. I welcome you with respect the rapporteur for the bill amending the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, CLXXIX of 2011. I hereby inform you that, on the basis of the amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee and the Legislative Committee, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, as the rapporteur of the draft bill, has prepared a new and re-written justification for the draft single proposal. The new document was adopted unanimously today by 13 votes in favour. The statement of reasons is set out in Decision No 137/A. In accordance with paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, I sent it to Mr. Speaker immediately after the meeting. The national justification for the single draft proposal is available in Parliament's information system. I do not wish to talk about the details of the bill in the introduction, but I think it is important to inform you that, in the meantime, the 2011 CXC on national public education was submitted on 26 May 2020 last Tuesday. T/10742 amending Act No. Legislative bill No. 1 to Parliament. This is important because, therefore, there is no further obstacle to the adoption of both legislative proposals amending the two laws that are closely linked to national legislation, as planned from the outset. After all this, Mr President, Mr House, I look forward to your possible comments and opinions on this bill, which I am prepared to respond to either on the move or in the closing word. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-02-198	Thank you very much for your speech. I would like to inform you that you have more than 12 minutes to comment on the debate and to say the closing word, 12 minutes to 10 seconds, if I have looked at it correctly. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary Soltés.
u2020-06-02-199	Honourable representatives of nationalities. My Lady and Lords, the Speaker of Ethnicity! Dear Parliament, Although the general debate on the amendment of the national minority law was not free from the actual political edges, which I naturally reacted to, the point is that the opposition speakers also gave their support to the bill, and some even called it an exemplary legislative proposal. Indeed, we can speak of exemplary preparation, since the amendment was submitted by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, most affected on the subject. This practice, this opportunity is not at all common in other countries, in Europe, we are proud to see this happening here. In addition, the Government has provided special assistance since the Prime Minister's Office has already convened a working group on legislative preparation in the summer of 2019. The proposals were based on the indications and experiences of stakeholders, national government leaders, ethnic leaders, and non-governmental organisations of nationality. In the general debate, I tried to give a comprehensive picture of Hungary's national policy. I said that we believe that Europe can be strong and can only be maintained if the individual nation states and the nationalities living there are strong. [[17.00]] This requires that indigenous nationalities are able to preserve and pass on their national identity, language and culture. Our country recognises, respects and outstandingly supports indigenous nationalities living with us. Hungary's ethnic policy is therefore exemplary at European level. I wish every state and every government would support their country's nationalities as we do. I'm merely quoting the main results in headlines. Since 2010, budget support for nationalities has increased fivefold. The number of institutions maintained by the national minority authorities, especially schools, increased by about seven times, in 2000 there were 12 more, in the 19/20 school year they grew to 91 and in them they raised 15,000 children and taught students. In order to represent national minorities in Parliament, we have introduced the institution of minority spokespersons, and I would add that they also have an independent representative from 2018. We have significantly increased the envelope for national minority applications, thus helping national NGOs. We supported educators in the field of ethnic education with a nationality bonus of 40 per cent in 2020 to keep them alive. We introduced a program of national education and education, and later we expanded it. Several people have already done so in the general debate, and I would like to point out some important, forward-looking parts again. One of them is the further reduction of so-called ethnobisz, since, starting from the general election of the representatives of the local government in 2024, the election of the representatives of the local minority self-government should be set if, on the basis of the assessment of the degree of self-organization of the particular nationality and its nationality in the settlement, the national minority government considers it necessary to self-government the ethnic community of the settlement. The second thing that is important and important is that, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, movable and immovable property for the performance of the functions of the public education institution must be transferred to the ownership of the maintenance nationality municipality without delay after taking up its duties, but not later than the beginning of the education or school year. This life-style change significantly helps to run public education institutions maintained by nationalities. Finally, I would like to point out that in Europe there is a unique way that nationalities in Hungary can continue to maintain social institutions, especially elderly homes. Dear Parliament, In two days, on June 4th, we will commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship. On the 100th anniversary of Trianon, the Government of Hungary sends a message to the indigenous nationalities living with us and to everyone that we not only tolerate it, but also expressly support and generously assist in preserving and passing on the identity of indigenous nationalities living with us. This is how 100 years of grief, 100 years of pain, is transformed into real national cohesion. In the spirit of this respect, acceptance and assistance, we intend to continue to pursue our outstanding and recognised nationality policy at European level, which provides significant and diverse support and substantial assistance to the nationalities living with us who are respected citizens of our country. In Hungary, indigenous nationalities continue to receive all help to preserve and pass on their language and culture, to develop their schools and other institutions, and to keep their faith. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] God bless Bulgarians, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Armenians, Roma and Romanians, Ruthenians and Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenians and Ukrainians in Hungary! In the coming years, we wish the protection and support of indigenous nationalities in all the countries of the Carpathian Basin to be natural, so that the Christian nations of Europe can survive in the next hundred years, and that the union between nations can also be achieved. The government supports this bill and asks all the political groups and all the representatives of the Parliament to do so. Mr President, thank you very much for the word and opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-200	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's words. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have an 8 minute timeframe later in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I give the floor to Mr Szolga József, a representative of the minority committee, in a five-minute time frame.
u2020-06-02-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. T/10303 on the amendment of the Act The legislative proposal No.3 looks back on the five-year municipal cycle behind us, on the one hand bringing its experience in implementing the law and on the other hand codifying new procedural and material rules. Eligibility for national self-government and cultural autonomy is clearly linked to the latest census data. It is known that the next national census will be in 2021, so that there is sufficient time for ethnic communities to prepare. It is important to note that there will be no further expansion of the population groups recognised as forming factors. Recent decades have shown that the 13 indigenous nationalities are real, forming the same social groups in their language and culture. I note that in recent years, Croatia and its Croatian ethnic sub-group, the Bácskai bünyevázság, have been subjected to a number of harsh, hate-promoting attacks. Internet interfaces contain a number of false statements that distort historical facts about the origin, history and position of the Bunyevac ethnic group in Croatia. Scientific research has now made it clear that Hungary's Őshaza of Bunyevács is located in the territory of historical Croatia. Their closest relatives still live in Croatia and the Croatian majority of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and speak the same dialect. The outstanding intellectual representatives of the Hungarian Bunyevács have been convinced that the historical heritage of Bunyevác is an integral part of the universal Croatian culture and has been presented to the Hungarian public. The National Assembly has not supported their recognition as an independent nationality on two occasions, on a well-founded and legitimate basis. In agreement with the National Croatian Government, we will reject all sharing initiatives in the future. Ethnic sub-groups of citizens who claim to be Bunyevac, guys and many others in Hungary are an inseparable part of the Hungarian croatism due to historical, cultural, linguistic and identity identities, which should be taken into account when enumerating the census. Dear House, In the future, I would like to draw attention to some important amended legal provisions. 14 of the proposal. §2 of the Act sets as a fundamental basis the number of people based on the census data in order to ensure the self-management of the ethnic community. The declaration of 25 people takes into account the reduction of the disadvantages arising from natural weight loss and urbanisation in historically national settlements. In order to support the communities that actually exist, the new minority self-government requires the degree of organisation of the community and the duration of nationality in the municipality as a condition. 19 of the draft. §2 of the Act finally replaces the relationship between the local government, the local office and the notary, its role in ensuring the conditions of self-management, when it fills the administrative contract to be concluded with specific content elements. 20. The proposal set out in Section 5 sets out guarantee arrangements for the right of consent and clarifies the issues relating to the management of the various ethnic institutions. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The provisions of Section 2 of the Act clarify the decades-old polemic about the holding of public hearing and its treatment as a municipal meeting. Important provisions will be incorporated into the law in order to broaden and strengthen the guarantees of the self-educational self-government, and in particular the concept of a public education institution involved in national education will be regulated; it will be declared that pupils in public education institutions should be provided with ethnic textbooks free of charge. [[17.10]] The movable and immovable property for the purpose of public education shall be transferred to the property of the nationality municipality. It can be said that, by carrying out the cultural task, movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the task will at least be managed by the national government, which I believe we would propose in the future, in the model of public education institutions. Dear Members of Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before Parliament contains the first milestone of the summary of the work done so far. Of course, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary will continue its discussions with government bodies and municipal parties to strengthen the provisions ensuring the rights of nationalities and to broaden self-government. I would like your votes to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti.
u2020-06-02-202	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask you, on behalf of the government, the Secretary of State would like to speak. [[On Dr. Miklós Soltész's mark:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. I would like to ask Mr President, as rapporteur, that he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2020-06-02-203	Thank you very much. During the general debate, I received criticisms that I might have left more time for the closing and less time for the details of the law. Now I've done this. In any case, I am very happy for him, because at the House Board meeting, when I saw that some laws about the acquisition and possession of weapons... . and the rest will be the previous agenda, I was confident that this would have no impact on our agenda. I thank the Secretary of State for his recognition and for the praise of several factions for the preparation in the general debate, but I would like to convey this partly to my fellow advocates involved in the work and, on the other hand, to the staff of the Secretary of State on the left, because the assistance of the State Secretariat was very important in terms of the efficiency of the work carried out with a large number of participants, which was nearly two years old, in order for this bill to come together. What I would like to emphasise in particular is that, of course, this is not the end of any further work on the Public Education Act or on the National Rights Act. We have already been able to put a number of topics into the current bill that we wanted to put into the 2017 bill, but either because we could not carry out the negotiations so effectively in preparation, or because at that time there was simply either a professional or a political intention to accept it, we could not achieve in 17 that it would be included in the legislative package, and now it has been unanimously supported by the profession and politics, and there are still a number of issues that have not yet been included. I hope that in the next period, in a year and a half or two, before the end of this cycle, there will again be a number of topics worth getting into the next legislative package. So, for our part, we would like to thank everyone once again for their help, and I would like to ask for the support of all the factions and Parliament in order to trust in the vote, so that, as in the previous six years, it can be adopted unanimously every time. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2020-06-02-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10316. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-205	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. T/10316. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, With regard to the bill before us, I would like to say to you that, in relation to the mayor's conflict of interest, the Hungarian village programme is a package of measures defining social policy, national policy, development policy and demographic objectives, which in all its basic programmes fully expresses the government's commitment to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially in this case the development of small settlements. The Hungarian village program is unprecedented, because since the change of regime, the first important programme launched to raise rural Hungary and small settlements has been implemented entirely from Hungarian sources. Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the challenges raised by small settlements are constantly being responded to, and the government is also trying to create a legal environment in such a way as to allow small settlements to develop even more rapidly, so that rural life is not between quality of life but between lifestyles. The number of applications issued under the National Cooperation Fund, taking into account the scope, activity, revenue and fundraising activities of civil society organisations, is increasing year by year. The proposals issued by the colleges pay particular attention to supporting the functioning and professional activities of value-creating organisations and foundations with real social embeddedness. The current amendment provides for the possibility of providing support for civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5,000 inhabitants and less than the number of inhabitants if the organisation's senior official is also mayor. Civil society organisations with local scope, typically for the future of settlements, for the preservation of their traditions, for helping local families, for the useful use of leisure time, have often asked local authorities for help to register and fulfil their obligations, and mayors with the most extensive information on local peculiarities have taken a leading role in these organisations. This may also be the reason why civil society organisations have a more direct contact with mayors, and even often mayors are civil society leaders themselves, so they are also actively involved in civil society. On this basis, it is appropriate that the civil society organisation structure created due to local specificities should not be detrimental to the support of the National Cooperation Fund for civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5,000 and less than the population. Dear House, The proposal before us must be supported, as it greatly helps to strengthen the self-organization of citizens living in rural small towns, i.e. civil society organisations. Please support the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage of the debate on his representative. Dear Parliament, I now inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[17.20]]
u2020-06-02-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will now make my first independent speech, and to be honest, it is an express pleasure for me to talk about the proposal concerning the Hungarian village. When the general debate was held, a number of my fellow Members in the opposition square expressed some doubt that this proposal was not more about allowing small settlements to benefit from the targeted support system of the , where the mayor may be the head of the civil society organisation, in order to prepare for the 2022 elections, and since they have so far left out the possibility of benefits, now allow them to do so. I said, not in my speech, but in my speech during the general debate, that there is no money that should not be spent on the Hungarian village, and there is no money that should not serve the Hungarian small settlements where the population is dying out, and where the mass of abandoned property is in the future we are trying to repopulate it. If this is the purpose of this programme, and with this new amendment, they want to achieve this opportunity for every small settlement of less than 5,000 people, then we will, of course, give our blessing and I believe that this should be supported. But the skeptical voice that has already been said in the general debate is nothing more than the experience of the last ten years. If we were to discuss this proposal in 2011, I think that no one in this House would have thought that this intention was not honest and that it did not contain some kind of other kind of lobbying power or money for a different kind of influence. However, I am trying to be optimistic, and I am asking my fellow Members to support this proposal now, precisely because people living in these settlements see that the letter of the law changes so that they will receive support even if the head of the civil society organisation is the mayor. Let us not do this on the opposition side in any way, so that they can say to us at some point that this is the only sentence in that law, and you have said otherwise, because today we do not know what implementation will be like. We do not know that the goals are really fair, we do not know that those involved in this work are governed by honor or political influence. But I think that we should be confident and try to show the community of small settlements that whatever regulations come before this House that serve even a small part of their happier future, then we should put our vote next to it, and then we will see how this works, and we will find out whether our trust is sound or not. But it is our primary duty in this House to support all positive decisions, positive proposals for the benefit of people living in small towns, and to work to ensure that their prosperity is at least as high as that of a fellow countryman living in a large city, and to stay in place, do not go into the city, and to live the quality of life that a small settlement gives to people. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-02-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak in the context of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the main features of the existence of civil society organisations is that they are not for themselves, but for real community needs, which go beyond the individual possibilities of the creators and organisations, and there is always a Community intention behind their creation. This intention may also be to serve one or more communities, to express the will, belonging and will of the community. For the Government of Hungary, associations and foundations with real content are extremely important, which actively participate in community building, representing values, in achieving Community goals. In Hungary, the majority of civil society organisations do their job in silence, doing the work for which they were created. In most cases, these organisations have local embeddedness, and the people who live there know them. Many civil society organisations are also assisted by volunteers in our country, about half a million civilian volunteers are known. So we are talking about civil society organisations, communities that are good and worthy to belong to. These organisations complement state or municipal tasks and activities with their work, adding a specific added value to the life of a settlement or branch of activity. In many cases, committed civil society organisations can provide serious help, whether it is family, family, social, health, leisure, youth, sport or any other useful, value-making and value-transfer activities. From large family associations to Boy Scouts and local cultural associations, the line could be classified for their commitments for a long time. Real civilians help in substance, make the lives of not only the participating members, but also their narrower and wider environments more comfortable and livable. Their added value, their social usefulness is indisputable. Cooperation with them is a real national issue, so Hungary's Government is particularly supportive of the civil sector, even if professional moodists, tantrums, and fake fighters proclaim the opposite in all international arenas, accusing the government of anti-civility. However, the facts are stubborn, actions and numbers speak for themselves. The results of the past decades in the civil sector show that civil society lives and thrives in Hungary. Compared to the pre-2010 period, the economic strength of civil society organisations is constantly increasing, thus increasing their potential. The government is also trying to strengthen this process with increasing state aid, because we are convinced that genuine civil society organisations are important building blocks for our nation. Since the entry into force of the civil society law adopted in 2011, there have been positive changes in the support environment of civil society organisations, which can be expressed not only in billions of years of growth in support frameworks, but also in the creation of candidate-friendly bureaucracy reduction procedures that take into account the expectations of civil society organisations. These current proposals also serve this purpose. As a result, around 61 thousand NGOs and non-profit organisations are registered in Hungary, and a significant part of them are active. Most of the above criteria can be said about them. However, when we talk about civilians, it is important not to be alarmed by a few dozen organisations with loud and significant media backwinds, which are practically engaged in political activity, in fact mocking the ideals of real civility. These fake NGOs do not have real social support and embeddedness, and they mainly do not build a community, but instead they mainly represent foreign political and economic interests. Hiding behind civility, Hungary is being attacked, constantly questioning our values and achievements. They are the ones who think that everything is wrong here, who are trying to prove that even government decisions that are most supported by society are very bad. They are not strong in Hungary, but interested in something else. Needless to say, these fake civil organizations, this fake civil political activist network, cannot count on Hungary's support; they have mentors, the world's number one oligarch, who operates a mafia-like network in the world. The false image of the so - called oppressed civilian world is being denied by the facts. We're talking about 61,000 organizations on one side, barely a hundred. Since 2010, the amount of State aid to civil and non-profit organisations has increased from HUF 144 billion to HUF 370 billion on the basis of the CSF data for 2018. So much for anti-civility. [[17 .30]] The National Cooperation Fund, which specifically supports the operation and professional activities of civil society organisations, has grown from 5.9 billion in 2019 to 7.7 billion forints in this year, and this envelope will continue to increase by 2021, with HUF 9.3 billion in expected support and is expected to continue to increase in the following year, i.e. the total amount of the NEA will increase to HUF 10 billion. The continued expansion of the NEA's budget also provides the opportunity for valuable programmes to be implemented annually by Hungarian associations and foundations in Hungary and abroad. Similarly, support for both ethnic and ecclesiastical non-governmental actors has increased greatly over recent years. In addition to the support environment of civil society organisations, it is also worth constantly reviewing their operational environment and regulation. In recent years, a number of decisions have been presented by the government and then adopted by the Parliament, resulting in the simplification of the registration and registration procedures of civil society organisations, the rationalisation of procedures, which is a great help for civilians. It is sad that these decisions in support of civilians have not been taken unanimously by the Parliament so far. The actions of the proposed legislation now are all helping civil society organisations, improving and even expanding their environment of support and operation, but also leading to simplification and further reduction of bureaucracy. I would also like to draw the attention of the National Assembly to the fact that the 2020 Hungarian village programme also relies on a new basic programme, the Village Civil Fund. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Thank you very much for your contribution and support, and it is a pity that if you had said all this as a representative of Jobbik, you would have been expelled from the party earlier. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I haven't been locked out yet! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] This is aimed at supporting the activities and operating conditions of the local, 5 000 people and the small settlements under it in a budget of HUF 5 billion. There are about 15 thousand civil society organisations in Hungary today whose headquarters are registered in a settlement of 5 thousand people and below. Excuse me, in parentheses: it wasn't the party that was disqualified, it was the faction that the congresswoman left because of various criticisms, just because she once dared to vote with the government. Returning to the bill: it is important that Hungary has some 2,500 small settlements with a population of 5 thousand or less. These settlements are often located in disadvantaged regions, which is why it is important that all, that is to say, all 15 thousand civil society organisations can apply for funding from the Village Civil Fund and the National Cooperation Fund. In addition to creating the framework, it is necessary to develop appropriate forms of tender so that the various civil society organisations in the diverse civil sector can find different forms of tender, with different scopes of activity, different sizes and revenues. Such an option is to promote the social responsibility of civil society organisations, to encourage their activities: the total amount of the 10 percent additional support for donations will increase from HUF 500 thousand to HUF 750 thousand in 2020 on the basis of the proposal. The simplified support, which provides eligibility-based support to local NGOs, typically operating in small settlements, related to the organisation's core objective, is expected to increase from HUF 200 thousand in 2021 to HUF 300 thousand. The provisions relating to these measures will be contained in the Ministerial Regulation governing NEA procedures. By the way, the normative support is available to around 700 NGOs each year for HUF 150-200 million, while the simplified support provides additional support to some 3-4 thousand organisations for HUF 500-600 million. In addition to the appropriate number of opportunities selected by civil society organisations, a continuous review of the tendering conditions, including the introduction of tender-friendly solutions such as the single tender procedure, has an important role to play. The amendment of the terms of application also provides the possibility for citizens operating in settlements of 5,000 inhabitants and below, even if the organisation's senior official is also mayor. Dear Parliament, The reduction of bureaucracy also serves to discharge the obligation to make declarations of assets imposed on senior officials of civil society organisations. This is justified by the fact that, in more than five years since the introduction, no notification has been made on the basis of which a verification procedure would have been carried out. Dear Parliament, The proposal and the presentation also have a major change: changing the name of the civil information centres to civil community service centres, and this will also stress that these centres, as part of the national civil society organisation network, should assist civil society companies with free services, legal, public benefit councils, tender and accounting advice, as well as various trainings. Dear House, Dear Parliament, The idea of establishing civil society organisations was born in Hungary nearly two hundred years ago, in 1827 Count István Széchenyi raised the idea of the National Casino as an association that he wanted to create in order to exchange ideas for public benefit, discuss socio-economic issues and, above all, to strengthen Hungarian ties. Nearly 200 years later, the Hungarian civilian world shows the legitimacy of this endeavour. I would ask the Parliament to support this bill-modifying proposal. Thank you very much for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-02-210	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to encourage adult learning activities and the discussion of the summarised amendment are in order. Government referral T/10313. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-211	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10313 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the promotion of adult training activities. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is LXXVII of 2013 on adult education. The aim is to amend law with a content that provides for the possibility of achieving further development objectives in the field of adult education through fine-tuning of the current legislation. On the basis of the proposal, the important aim of the renewal of the adult education system is to improve the labour market relevance of adult education, i.e. to better understand labour market needs and their changes, to display and to regulate content and support planning tailored to needs. In order to achieve this, the draft sets out an important instrument for the creation of a labour market forecasting system. A range of training courses of national importance will be introduced, which will be defined by the Minister for Adult Education under the conditions set out in the later Government Decree. With the adoption of the draft, in addition to the training loan, the institution of a scholarship that can be paid in adult education will also appear, which can be paid by the adult teacher in the case of authorised training. [[17.40]] The aim of fine-tuning regulation is to further reduce administrative burdens. As a result of the current amendment, several sets of data are removed which can be easily determined from the other data provided. The draft before you will further reduce the administrative burden by removing certain documentation burdens linked to its operation and reporting. It also includes further facilitations by rationalising reporting obligations and creating the possibility of automated reporting and receiving data. To increase the effectiveness of reporting, the proposal also provides for a financial incentive in addition to the strict sanctioning system already in place. With this amendment, trainings for which training data is provided in the reporting system for adult education can be described as costs in the calculation of the corporate tax base. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft can be supported because the measures set out in the draft aim is to ensure that the adult education system is up-to-date and provides competitive, modern knowledge appropriate to labour market needs for the broadest possible number of trainees, with less bureaucratic burden and unnecessary data provision. The bill provides a sure basis for strengthening the Hungarian economy and preserving Hungary's competitiveness. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-02-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György, Minister of State, as rapporteur, in a 15-minute time frame. I would also like to inform the Secretary of State that he will need to reserve the time available from this time frame to present the closing. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-213	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd keep it on lockdown if I could. Congressman Péter Ovádi presented the law so well that I think I will say the closing word.
u2020-06-02-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Then you'll have a 15-minute window. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-02-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary considers it very important to have excellent adult education in Hungary. The education system is in itself a basis for Hungarian society to function at the right level, and it is necessary to take an example from our great ancestors, so that XX. From the minister of the first half of the century, Kuno Klebelsberg, who believed that the most important thing was that Hungarian people should be trained as much as possible, and this is even more timely and even more important today. What we see is that in the labour market, only those who have an adequate degree and a professional qualification can be competitive, and we also see constantly, especially in the last 10 to 20 years, that the demands for who can work with what degree and how they can work in Hungary are changing. After all, new areas are being created, new professions are being created, demand is being created, there are a large number of needs, which were perhaps not taught or existed 20 years ago, so it is very important that it is timely, that we will only be competitive in this. And that is why it is important, unfortunately, for many today who are very fond of studying, it is not, unfortunately, that we can get a good job in the labour market today if we are actually studying for a lifetime, even after retirement it is worth studying. So lifelong learning is a very important process. And let us not forget yet another very important aspect that I would like to highlight in this area, and this is the role of learning in integration, and here is a huge role in how much we can involve in adult education the extremely underqualified Roma population in Hungary, who do not get a degree, do not get an industrial education or a diploma, and, indeed, with the eight primary educations, the area where they are able to work is very limited, and the possibilities of their job placement are extremely limited. And that is why it is very important to give them the best possible opportunity to participate in adult education. The rapid response of adult education to labour market changes is a very important fundamental issue in this case. I think that this is why it is of great importance that there is a labour market forecasting system that will then collect the experience and publish it on its website, which will be open to everyone, and we will be able to see which field of work, which is the best way to obtain, which is the best way to find the best way to make the best payments, which is obviously close to our interests. So it is certainly to be welcomed that such a system is being created. It is also very important to ensure that this adult education works effectively, because if it is not effective enough, students will receive the qualification, but unfortunately, it is not certain that they will be able to find a job in the labour market if they do not give an effective degree that the market needs. I would also like to highlight one more positive point: this is the possibility of a scholarship and a training loan, because we see that, for example, today, if someone wants to take a OKJ course and would like to do what they don't have a chance to do for a long time, but there they want to get a degree, we see that the student candidate who wants to study has to have about a quarter of a million forints. And we can also see that today, who, for example, lives from public work and has a salary of fifty or a few thousand forints per month, and even has to support children, it is very difficult for him to save this 250 thousand forints, i.e. it is virtually impossible for him to study, only if he can participate in a program where he can use the training free of charge, he has the opportunity to learn. However, learning must be provided to citizens in any way by a caring state, and it is therefore very good to have a scholarship system in the field of adult education, and to have credit facilities, training loans. I think that, sooner or later, anyone who thinks responsibly will be able to break out of the fact that, as a public worker, he has an income of around HUF 50,000, if he uses a loan, if he applies for a scholarship, he may be able to move to the primary labour market, and by doing so he will be able to provide a much better livelihood for himself, his family. This is why it is very important that adult education itself is appropriate in Hungary, and any progress that is being presented here will, of course, continue to be supported by Jobbik Hungary Movement in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-02-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr László György, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I still have to learn the genre. Is that the closing word, or...
u2020-06-02-218	Yes, that is the closing point, Mr. Secretary, so anything you wish to respond to and what you would like to say we are happy to hear. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-219	Actually, what I can react to is words of appreciation. Thank you very much, Members, for the amendment to the Adult Education Act. It's all we're trying to do. I also thank my colleagues for their work, and this is where the best comes in, when we can implement this adult education law, and we can implement it. [[17.50]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the general debate on the bill before you, we presented the substance of the regulation in detail, and in the detailed debate we reviewed the benefits and impact of the proposed regulation. The aim of the proposal is to develop a new and innovative adult education system in order to achieve the goals set by the government even more effectively. With the adoption of the bill, we arrive at the second stage of the renewal of the adult education system, when it is possible to further develop and improve adult education. The effectiveness of the adult education system will be increasingly appreciated in the context of the competitiveness of the economy and technological development. Today, it is essential, on the one hand, to return non-workers to the labour market and, on the other hand, to continuously improve the skills and knowledge of workers in order to increase the added value of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. The operation of an effective adult education system is a means of achieving both economic strategy goals. Dear House, The aim of the quality transformation of the adult education system is to ensure a more efficient and efficient operation. One of the most important elements of this was the development of the measurability of adult education, the provision of data for monitoring and management of adult learning activities in relation to full adult education, with the gradual development of the reporting system for adult education as of 1 January 2020. Its important aim is to improve the labour market relevance of adult education, i.e. to better understand the needs of the labour market and their changes, to show content regulation and support organisation adapted to the needs. An important instrument for achieving this objective is the draft by setting up a labour market forecasting system. A forecasting and analysis platform will be established that can reliably predict labour market needs in the short, medium and long term and at regional level. With the help of the system, the professional management of adult education can carry out much more accurate analyses and, on the basis of these, can strengthen the market-oriented functioning of adult education through targeted interventions. In the context of demand-based aid planning, we introduce a range of training courses of national importance. These are mostly training courses that are of national or local origin and are organised for the achievement of a key labour market objective. Training courses of national importance are designed to ensure that the training of missing professionals required to deal with economically strategically high priority situations that cannot be foreseen for years is provided and supported as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, In terms of participation in adult education, it is essential to provide funding for training and for living in training. To this end, in addition to the training loan already introduced on 1 January 2020, the bill before you provides for the possibility of a scholarship that can be paid by an adult teacher to the person involved in the training. The draft further reduces the administrative burden and includes additional facilitations by consolidating, rationalising reporting obligations and creating the possibility of automated reporting and/or receiving data. It also provides a financial incentive to increase the effectiveness of the reporting system in addition to the strict sanctioning system already in place. With the amendment, education and training on which the organiser of the training has fulfilled its obligation to provide data will be described as a cost. Dear House, Through the amendments, the legislative proposal, in its present form, helps to ensure that the renewed adult education system is able to provide a continuous and appropriate response to the challenges of a constantly changing economic environment. The measures set out in the bill therefore aim to ensure that the system of adult education provides up-to-date and competitive knowledge that responds to labour market needs for as many people as possible in a modern technology, a modern training environment and a wider range of training participants. The bill provides a sure basis for further strengthening the Hungarian economy, achieving full employment and increasing Hungary's competitiveness. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. I thank you very much for the comments on the bill and Mr President for the time. I was able to go through the 15 minutes, as I hoped; as my boss spoke, I tried to speed up my pace. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-02-220	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws on certain legal status and other defence issues and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/10311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-06-02-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the laws on certain legal and other defence matters T/10311. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is a comprehensive package, which deals mainly with matters concerning the staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces and some other defence issues. The proposal amends nine laws in total. Among the most significant amendments, the following can be mentioned. Additional support will be introduced for orphans of civil servants. The amendment also ensures that the aid is exempt from tax. Several simplification amendments seek to facilitate the inclusion of civil society from the professional register. This is mainly due to the growing needs of military personnel in specialized areas. It will be possible to define and obtain the first rank at the same time as taking office and to simplify the rules for establishing the starting rank. The maximum waiting time for the advancement order will cease, only the mandatory waiting time will remain. The rules for the setting of salaries will be more precise, for example, in the case of a double rank. The proposal also sets out rules for restructuring, while at the same time creating the possibility of employment in the service delivery time frame. As a result of the amendments, the maximum time frame for the annual overservice is increased from 300 to 400 hours per year. These changes are intended to promote an increase in the effectiveness of defence, as well as minor changes to clarify certain data management rules, changes to reduce red tape or changes to simplify the application of legislation based on practical experience. The planned amendments will make a major contribution to the success of preparing for new challenges in the field of defence, allowing for a more flexible and rapid response by the army. Dear House, It is clear that under these circumstances, this objective cannot be achieved by reducing the time of service or by increasing bureaucracy. Bearing in mind the need to increase the adaptability of the Hungarian Defence Forces, these proposals are reasonable and eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-02-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has indicated that he intends to make use of the opportunity to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a time frame of 15 minutes in total. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[18.00]]
u2020-06-02-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we discussed the general debate on this proposal, I told the Ministry's representative, Mr Szilárd Németh, the problems that I am most likely unable to support this proposal. We've had an interesting time, because you can say no, but they don't always take it into account. I was very hoping that my points that I had put forward in the general debate and then that the representatives of the committee would consider applying some other provisions or other rules, or that they would remain the same. What were these major problems with the proposal? The first is that when a man of great skill dresses up from civil life, he may even get the rank that our fellow citizens in the military will gain after decades of service. The other serious problem I had was the virtually unlimited possibility of ordering the decree stock without any reason, which has already created a very serious tension in the organization, and with the possibility of this measure, many soldiers live in such an addictive relationship with their superiors that they cannot be brought into this situation as a result of a political change or some kind of internal power struggle. My third serious problem was, and this is practically the biggest problem with the proposal: 400 hours of overwork. I was so hoping that I would look at it again, that this may be included in the amendments, that it will be taken out, because, as the soldiers have already basically been talking about a 24-hour service system, they are already very much on duty, on duty, and thus still giving them 400 hours of extra work, which means that they will not be able to get a rest day at all in two thirds of the year if the leaders of the Hungarian Army take advantage of this opportunity and really force the soldiers to do so. It is also a fact that we are in peacetime today, and there are no serious crises that could justify this kind of over-work order, but I think that it was not justified in peacetime to bring this to us. And in the event of any kind of war conflict, not only the soldiers, but the entire population of the country, who are able to take part in the fights, and those who, for the sake of their work, must serve their country for everyday duties. These were the three important neural issues that I thought the pro-government representatives of the Defence Committee would hear and possibly regulate these issues differently, but could not be heard, so I can tell Mr State Secretary and my fellow Members that a Member of Parliament can vote against this proposal with a good heart. It is a matter of fact that there are many other provisions in this regard, a lot of welfare and justified provisions that may have to be made because of legislative coherence problems, or because of incomplete regulation so far, but unfortunately, these very serious issues also obligately undermine the importance of those serious issues, because unfortunately this is in a salad law, and we can only vote on it together, so I can say that this proposal cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-224	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr István Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-06-02-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and All I can say now, in the debate two weeks ago, is that the aim of this bill, the package of laws, which initiates amendments to nine laws, is what Congressman Ovadi said as the majority position of the Legislative Committee: the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. How timely this is, I am sure that the day after tomorrow, everyone who attends the various Trianon commemorations will say; whether in a way that the historical fact itself is one of the most mournful, perhaps even the most mournful times in Hungarian history, or that another evaluation in 2010 has been given the opportunity to come out of this low point with a national collaboration, they will still say that one of the reasons for the conclusion of Trianon was the total decommissioning and inability of the army at that time. Then we can invite Sándor Szurmay, a representative of the infantry general, out, no matter what I say, the warning of the Minister of Defense in his journal in 1940, that we do not think that we are men of peace, we should only think of peace, because any danger can be seen at any time. Congresswoman spoke of a time of peace when there is still an emergency in Hungary, the US President said that the American nation is fighting the most insidious invisible enemy, when we see that the Hungarian Defence Corps has done the most important tasks and the most indispensable tasks in the first phase of the outbreak, the coronal virus epidemic, so that we can stop this epidemic at all and not act like Western Europeans. So in the success that we used to describe with the cooperation of Hungarians, health professionals and timely provisions, the Hungarian Defence Forces played an outstanding and indispensable role in that success. Contrary to our predecessors, unlike the left-wing government, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai Kortány, Ágnes Vadai's State Secretary's time, we really think seriously about the development of the Hungarian defence, and this bill creates the foot of human policy, which is most important, because the most important thing is the soldier. They can be very modern, modern, good weapons, but without soldiers, they cannot be operated without well-trained, patriotic, healthy-hearted, healthy-physicist soldiers. So what we want in Hungary is to achieve the goal that, when we speak in numbers, we have set out to achieve 30 thousand professional and 20,000 reserve soldiers, so that we can become the strongest, most powerful, state-of-the-art army in the region, and this bill before us serves this purpose. Allow me one more thing, because there's always a lot of things going on here, but then I don't see it in the amendments to the bill. The amendment before us is a proposal for an amendment by the pro-government representatives, tabled by the Legislative Committee as a summary amendment. That's what we're going to vote on tomorrow, and the law itself. There's no opposition proposal, there's only speech, there's no action. So the Parliament horseshoe can carry a lot of things, but I think that if the Congresswoman had meant it, she would have said so in the amendments to the bill, but this is not visible. I ask all of us to consider the patriotic obligation to protect our country, our constitutional and fundamental obligations, and this is a national matter, and regardless of which party we are representatives of, which party we represent here in Parliament, what faction we are sitting in, or are not sitting in, regardless of whether it is the duty of everyone to support the laws that are capable of providing the Hungarian Defence, the independence of the country and the security of the Hungarians at the highest possible level, as it was shown here in the case of the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-02-226	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the need to amend certain tax laws in order to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/10314. Available at 1.05 p.m. [[18.10]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-227	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10314 on the necessary amendment of certain tax laws to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 1 against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The main elements of the bill before you are the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax and the amendment of the related legislation, the reduction of the corporate tax limit for investments and the special tax on credit institutions. The rate of the social contribution tax has been reduced gradually, as such tax reductions have already taken place in several stages in recent years. If we recall, in 2016, there was still 27 percent of this type of tax, and by adopting the current bill, it could be 15.5 percent from 1 July 2020, which means a 11.5 percent reduction. The next reduction in the tax rate would have taken place in October 2020, but in view of the current epidemiological situation, the government will initiate the next phase of the social contribution tax reduction in the framework of the economic protection action plan as of 1 July 2020 with a reduction of the tax rate from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent from 1 July 2020. The proposal also includes a reduction in the rate of small company tax in the context of the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax, as well as a clarification of the rules on personal income tax, the specific tax on small companies and the simplified public burden-sharing contribution. Dear House, In relation to the coronal virus epidemic, a number of economic measures have been taken which make a significant contribution to the effectiveness of the control of the coronal virus epidemic and to the reduction of the economic downturn caused by the epidemic. The government has established a protection fund for the protection of the disease against the coronal virus epidemic in order to provide budgetary coverage. Ensuring the revenue and resources of the disease control fund is of particular interest for the protection of the epidemiological situation. As stated in the title of the bill before us, the adoption of the proposal is necessary to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic and should therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-02-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Inform you, you have a total time frame of 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, and now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I ask you, one of my fellow Members wishes to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-06-02-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this case, I would not abuse Parliament's patience and I would like to thank the Member for his summary, which presented the content of the proposal in very specific and detailed terms. So thank you very much for the presentation, and I would not take advantage of the further opportunity to speak, and I would ask Members to support the vote on this proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the retail tax submission and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/10315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10315 on retail taxation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 25 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The revenue from the retail tax introduced by the Government's decree in the event of an emergency is still necessary in the future to alleviate the economic damage caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The bill aims to maintain this non-emergency tax, making it a permanent part of the Hungarian tax system. However, the tax burden distribution can only take place under the requirement of the basic law of the taxable person's ability to bear a load, and therefore, according to the bill, the tax is to be paid only to those who carry out retail activities with significant capacity. Therefore, the tax would not be charged to small-scale operators, because the tax rate would be zero per cent up to HUF 500 million annual turnover, i.e. the tax rate was not established by lawnmower principle. The proposal states that the tax is based on net turnover from taxable activities, the concept of which is defined in the interpretation of the bill under the fiscal and accounting framework of taxable persons' taxable activities. I think it is important to mention that, in order to prevent tax evasion, taxable net turnover should be summarised by taxable taxable taxable taxable persons and that progressive rates should be projected to this amount in order to calculate the tax. The tax thus calculated shall be borne in proportion to the taxable turnover. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us aims to bring an old-new tax system back into the tax system, which has stood the test of the European Union, makes a significant contribution to relaunching the economy and, moreover, protects the market situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In view of what has been said, please support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-02-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. It is now possible to speak to its representatives. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to make use of it. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, if you wish to share any information with Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-233	Thank you very much. This time, I would just like to thank the Legislative Committee and the Economic Committee, who have discussed the proposal and assisted with supporting amendments in the improvement of the proposal, and also in very specific and detailed presentation of the proposal. Thank you again for this opportunity, and please support the proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the functioning of the crisis insurance system in agriculture and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/10308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-06-02-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 28 May 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10308 amending certain laws necessary for the functioning of the crisis insurance system in agriculture. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 4 against and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal before this House proposes to expand the toolbox of the agricultural risk management system that has been in place in Hungary since 2012. [[18.20]] This is the creation of a fourth pillar for the introduction of an agricultural crisis insurance system, which will be able to provide effective assistance to livestock and crop production, in addition to managing weather risks. For example, there may be cases of material damage caused by animal and plant diseases, market price decline, market loss, exchange rate changes or even additional expenditure resulting from an increase in production costs. It is important to note that producers can voluntarily join the scheme, so no one will be required. Crisis insurance compensation will be required in the year in which the farmer's agricultural income falls below the average income of the previous three years by more than 30 per cent compared to the reference income; the amount of the crisis insurance compensation may be up to 69,9 per cent of the farmer's income. Dear House, The introduction of the new system will encourage self-care by producers, and will also help to preserve and increase the income-generating capacity of agriculture, thereby strengthening the economies of our rural areas. In view of what has been said, I would like your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-02-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. I am asking my fellow Members if someone would like to live with this. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, who wishes to speak.
u2020-06-02-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this law is extremely important for the stability of the sector and offers farmers an adequate balanced opportunity for crisis situations, perhaps market disturbances. In this general debate, I believe, the factions expressed their views extremely exhaustively, and then at the committee meeting, at the Committee on Agriculture, they made use of the possibility of amendment and Commission amendments, and later this law became complete and complete with the amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. So I would like to ask the honourable House that, in accordance with earlier promises tomorrow, I would like to add that I would like to support the bill with their vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-02-238	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I give the floor to MEP László Hajdu, DK-group:, Municipality lived in Hungary for 30 years. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-06-02-239	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, After the agenda, I asked for the floor because, indeed, 30 years ago, the municipal law replacing the council system, in the then jargon, was presented to the House. The very important and important element of this law was that, compared to the Council system, the philosophy and living practice of the municipal system was that local voters, local residents could decide on their own matters, the local council of the local council elected by them, and the conditions provided for by the law. By transfer of assets, the property transfer law was also passed on to the buildings of the state-owned former institutions, the institutional tasks. They received state-owned apartments, non-residential premises and all the infrastructure that operated in one settlement, i.e. water supply, where there was sewerage, roads and sidewalks, along with their problems and operations. So they were owners and they could be their own settlements. By the way, at that time the ruling party in Parliament thought that the division of power and the local exercise of power should be a very important tool, the principle of democratic functioning, with a high degree of local government, content, task, responsibility and powers. That was the beginning. This municipal law lived for 21 years, and in 2011 this law was replaced by Mötv. a law of the Hungarian government, which, on the other hand, gives the municipalities quite different tasks, and until it was born, it could only be felt that this was a step backwards to the division of power, to the local exercise of power, to the full expression of local autonomy, which had begun to develop earlier; a fundamental step backwards took place. The practical parts of this are still going on, and I would like to go this far in relation to the 30th anniversary, and this is the fact that, within a short time, hospitals and inpatient establishments have been managed by the state, together with their assets and tasks, from the municipalities. You could say that, indeed, there were operational cost problems, but I must add that to this day, all of this has not been removed from being nationalised. The same was then done by changing public education into public education, introducing its buildings into public management and taking this task from the municipalities. So it was such a significant legislative step backwards, while previously the state controlled the municipalities through the legislation, and there was a way to go to court, it ceased on the move. For the municipality, let's say, the State Audit Office, the Treasury's decisions have become incontrovertible and unassailable in court. So there was a fundamental change in the local government. And, of course, much of the previously transferred assets have been returned to the State, which has seriously undermined the revenues of the municipalities. I think that on the 30th anniversary, we must say that we are keeping a nice pace, constantly going back to the Council system where the will of a one-party system prevails, and where, according to the will of the one-party system, you are centrally told what to decide, what to make a decision, what to give money to, and the right to free management, free provision of your assets will cease. Hopefully, we won't get to the point where we're going to be "dear comrades," but the rest is a council system. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-02-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also came forward after the agenda. It's an address. I give you the floor.
u2020-06-02-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My poor grandfather told me a few years ago that we're having a hard time, son, and the truth is, if my grandfather were alive, I would tell him now that he's right. Just because we have seen over the past ten years that the government and the prime minister leading the government are now fighting not only their demons, Brussels, Soros, the EU, but, with the exception of a few dictators, they are slowly fighting the whole world indiscriminately as some crazy Don Quixota windmill fights. Unfortunately, this windmill fight has now become so high that it is not only looking for an outside enemy, but it is also continuing to fight against the local governments. [[18.30]] While the winners of the so-called delegation law, which was introduced by the Pandemic, clearly became the kind family, relatives, gas mechanics in the village and other government oligarchs, the list of losses is certainly run by the municipalities. On the one hand, we know very well that the social and economic burden of combating the epidemic is almost exclusively on the shoulders of the municipalities. In the case of Debrecen, allow an example here only for the last two months, even the mayor of Fidesz estimates that it is well over HUF 3.6 billion. On the other hand, the government also affects the local government sector, with reference to the epidemic, with an unprecedented withdrawal of funds. And he is wrong, who thought that the last remaining, crumbling bastions of democracy, the rug bombing against local communities and local governments, might be eliminated by the reduction of the health emergency. Just as mayors of Fidesz might be disappointed, who believed that the open government war against local governments, economic inability and a series of fires would not be directed exclusively at the Democratic-led municipalities and settlements. Now, knowing the cornerstones of the 2021 budget, it is safe to say that the municipalities are not simply victims of the usual sick revenge in Orbán. On the basis of the budget proposal submitted, it is clear that, taking advantage of the economic and social crisis resulting from the epidemic and the epidemic, the government is building up a new power structure, of which, it is said, a long-awaited part of the total destruction of the municipal sector. Let us remember that the car tax transfer introduced under the cover of the authorisation law, that the remaining 40 percent of the tax revenues that have remained in the municipalities have been taken away by the government, even in the days that many have considered it temporary. But now we can safely say that, knowing the draft budget, it is not a temporary measure, since the withdrawals are included in this draft. However, the structure on the municipalities, called the government's solidarity contribution, which is in fact not a contribution, but a heavy tax of millions and billions, can also increase by more than four times the current withdrawals from 2021 onwards. And let us not forget that the government is taking a devastating blow to the already almost unsolvable local authorities at a time when, for example, the volume of public transport and, here, again, let me give an example of Debrecen that has fallen by 80%. This happens when social and health expenditure related to the control of the epidemic is committed to a large part of the resources of the municipalities. Just as we should not forget that the possibility of creating so-called special economic zones, especially for larger settlements, may also deprive the municipalities concerned of their last sources of income and opportunities. Let us say: they are destroying, they are beating, they are bleeding, they are punishing local governments with special taxes, they are taking funds, while in the first four months of 2020 and here I would remind you that in a significant part of this, the impact of the coronal virus epidemic has already determined the country's functioning, the corruption risk in public procurement has risen to a level that has never occurred in the past 15 years. Companies linked to the Prime Minister and his circle of friends, his family, Mészáros-, Garancsi-, Tiborcz's insatiable hunger and greed will soon be ruined by local governments. I must say that what you do to the local governments is a shame and a shame, what is happening in this country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Laszlo Hajdu applauds.]]
u2020-06-02-242	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
