u2020-04-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, MEPs László Földi and György László Lukács will be present as notaries for my assistance. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, applied for a speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government today. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak here today in Parliament before the agenda to report to the Parliament on the meetings of NATO and the European Union as foreign ministers, which we held at the end of the last week, in virtual form only, so with limited effectiveness, if that is any expectation of such a conference. Unfortunately, the situation reported by the corona virus actually means that the possibility of personal contact is very limited in international politics, so basically we can discuss the topicalities at virtual events and video conferences. I would like to inform you that, as a result of the last ratification by the Member States, Northern Macedonia has become a full member of NATO, and that now there are thirty members of the Alliance. We hope that this expansion dynamic, which is characteristic of NATO, will also be passed on to the European Union. For our part, it is important that NATO retains its open door policy and allows Georgia to cooperate as closely as possible with the North Atlantic Alliance. We continue to consider it important that, in the face of the challenges posed by the corona virus, NATO exerts sufficient force to combat terrorism, given that terrorism is one of the main root causes of migration processes, and that if an uncontrolled, large-scale migration wave is launched during this period, it carries not only the security and cultural risks so far but also very serious health risks. I would also like to inform you that we were about to increase the number of Hungarian soldiers stationed in Afghanistan when the Americans agreed with the Taliban, so there is no need to increase the number of troops in Afghanistan. However, we intend to use the quota not to be sent out there in other NATO operations and to consult the Secretary-General of NATO on their placement. In addition, I respectfully inform you that we are also in favour of broadening NATO missions in Iraq, and we are ready to participate in it. We are proud that NATO's military health centre operates here in Budapest. They play a major role in completing the NATO slice of the battle against the Crown Virus. I would also like to inform you that NATO is operating a so-called reflection group, which is responsible for effectively preparing for new types of challenges and resulting structural changes within NATO. Representatives from several countries in Central Europe and the Balkans have also highlighted the fact that, unfortunately, quite geographically unevenly distributed groups have been set up. We Central Europeans are represented by an actor, an ex-Polish Foreign Minister, but because they are the largest of us, we trust that we will be strongly represented after all. I would also like to inform you that the European Union Foreign Ministers have also met at the end of the last week, where we have found that national responses are the best in the fight against the Crown Virus. Everyone has made their decisions on a national basis, in accordance with national specificities and in accordance with national interests. It is clear that coordination in Brussels has been pushed into the background in all these areas, whether it be about repatriation or the purchase of products for health protection. In the latter context, it can also be concluded that all of Europe, including the constantly extremely critical and democratic essence, is ready to teach and lecture Western Europeans in many cases, everyone in China is in line for health protection products. Therefore, the European policy on Eastern relations may need to be considered somewhat after the coronal virus. Finally, I respectfully inform you that I have indicated to the European Union Foreign Ministers that I will be reporting to you here today, which is a live rebuttal, a live rebuttal of the Fake news produced continuously in the international fake news factory, according to which Hungarian parliamentarianism would have been cut off. The Hungarian Parliament will meet and meet during the emergency, and as we presented 16 legislative proposals to you last week, we will have work with it, and their work will be plenty. Thank you very much for your attention. I would like to take note of the information. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-07-2	Thank you very much, Minister. According to the house rules, the factions now have a two-minute opportunity to comment. I would like to take the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr Brenner Koloman. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, We thanked you for your report. I would first like to support Jobbik in the enlargement process, both for the European Union and here for NATO, in the case of NATO accession to Northern Macedonia. I'm glad that Northern Macedonia has become a full member of our common defence system. Secondly, I would like to ask you, or I am sorry, I know that Minister here will not be able to answer this, but I would remind you once again that Jobbik believes that the withdrawal of Hungarian soldiers serving in Afghanistan and other missions should be considered in this very difficult situation. The most important thing I would like to respond to in these short two minutes is the EU Foreign Affairs Summit, which worked online. I would also like to state here that this could also apply to the Hungarian Parliament. If the European Parliament can also operate online in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In the century, I think that the Hungarian Parliament could meet at any time. This is why there is no need for the unlimited nature of the delegation law in time, which is proclaimed by all opposition parties, not as fake news, according to the Minister, the European Union, but as a very serious democratic concern in which we have shown all kinds of openness here in this House. We would have voted in favour of these powers to the Hungarian government for 90 days or 120 days, but we say no to unlimited authorisation in time. I have to say that here with regard to Chinese defences, I accept that, since China obviously produces everything in the global production chain, I think it would be very important to look at the Chinese here, too, in terms of quality. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-04-07-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Dialogue, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio wishes to comment. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for this report, and thank you for responding in writing to my question before the last agenda. Although I would still like to know about the agreement on multi-enterprises, with those with whom there is a strategic agreement, there is a negotiation of dismissals, especially with regard to temporary workers. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Brussels is only running from the background, coordinating, and that from the other government statements, Brussels' actions are apparently dissatisfied with the virus, in which there is a legitimate criticism, but I would point out that it is you who regularly talk about the nation-state EU and not about the federalist EU. You are the ones who have repeatedly slowed down and blocked integration in the EU. So there is no EU that can act uniformly, decisively and hardly, but is based on nation-state foundations. There is only an EU in which there is a very serious integration, there is very serious cooperation, and then it can take action in these matters. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Now I don't want to open the debate about the need for European united states, just to say that this is not fair on your part, or that there should be consistency in that. [[9.10]] I think we need to learn from this epidemic. Anti-epidemic institutions should be set up in the EU. Let it be the centre of this, let's say, in Budapest, I think we have the professional background for this. There should be adequate strategic stocks in Europe, so that we do not have to go somewhere else to go, but, for example, within the European Union, breathing machines can be available to all EU countries. We are not a living rebuttal, Mr Foreign Minister, because there is no other country in the EU where the government has been given time-limited authorisation. So this was a very bad example, and 16 laws are a bad example, because most laws have nothing to do with defense. These are laws that we will be debating here in this House. Of course, we support NATO's open policy and the fight against terrorism. Here, I would like to draw attention to the role of the secret services, and there have been some criticisms that should be taken into account. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the DK Group, it comes from Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-7	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to use this opportunity to thank the Hungarian soldiers serving in various missions and to wish them good health, who have unfortunately been infected. I would also like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the defence wallet to monitor closely the health situation of those serving in missions, as they serve in countries where healthcare is not necessarily of such quality or even of inferior quality to that of Hungarians, and it is extremely important that we also receive up-to-date information on the situation of Hungarian soldiers in these matters. There has just been a change in Iraq, and Hungarian soldiers have just arrived home, who, according to the previous committee of defense and police, automatically went into domestic quarantine. I would like to say that the Democratic Coalition has supported the inclusion of Northern Macedonia in NATO, and we are very pleased that this has happened. This is all the more welcome, because it was the Hungarian government that was hiding his main politician, Nikola Gruevski, who opposed the NATO membership of Northern Macedonia, whose presence in Hungary, his activity here, is still little known today. We support NATO addressing issues beyond the traditional framework that determine the future of the community. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the issue of cybersecurity at a time when many organisations, including diplomatic bodies, are meeting virtually, cyber security is more important than anything else. Finally, in the context of the European Union, let me tell you that in their daily report, which the Ministry of Interior sends to us every day, the European Union's assistance to the Member States has been mentioned for a very long time. I would not underestimate the work that the European Union has done, for example, in the context of repatriation, which I think is important. In many cases, even a government like yours should look carefully at the practices of other countries and other Member States. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-04-07-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt Németh is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-9	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry and Minister for the hard work of the last month. I would like to express our condolences on the part of Fidesz to the Hungarian, European and all international victims of the virus, and to give my compliments to the expert who fights in all the front lines of the world. We are dealing with a global war where we share the enemy, and this fact gives us a chance to create an international cooperation that is unknown to date, and we need to know that we are at the beginning of the epidemic. In the area of rehabilitation and personal transit, I think that Hungarian neighbourhood and regional policy has passed a good test and that more EU engagement in this area would have been justified. However, there have been very serious mistakes in relation to the unity of the European Union. There is therefore a need to debate the results, in a way of cooperation, but a massive political and communication fiasco was the joint declaration of the 13 countries. The unity of the European Union has been deeply undermined and the East-West division has been deepened. Whose interest is it? I would like to welcome Estonia's proposal, be it the European Union's joint declaration of 27 and Hungary's supportive attitude on this issue, I think it was important. As far as the rule of law is concerned, honourable Members, there has also been a sound voice on the European Foreign Affairs Council. The High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borell, said that the rule of law disputes should be postponed until after the epidemic. I would like the parties of the European People's Party, President Tusk, to hear the opinion of Josep Borell. As a last remark, the NATO membership process in northern Macedonia was launched by Prime Minister Gruevski. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, Group leader, makes his comment on this. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, This is a rhetorical question here, but I would like you to inform the Hungarian public in some forum about how it can happen that the Hungarian government supplies a large number of protective equipment to Northern Macedonia, without the Hungarian authorities having received such protective equipment, and in many respects the Hungarian population is having difficulty getting access to it. So we'd like to ask for some kind of information, some explanation. It has also been mentioned here by my fellow Members that, since everything is being produced in China, several of my fellow Members have said so, I would like to invite Minister for tomorrow's debate. Tomorrow we will discuss the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. This will be an investment of a thousand billion in the long term, which cannot be justified in any way from the side of Hungarian national interests, nor has the government tried to justify it, and they are now preparing to encrypt the underlying document and its contracts. You cannot answer now, Minister, but I very much hope that you will be here in tomorrow's debate, explaining that you are facing an extremely deep, unprecedented economic crisis, that you now want to spend 60 billion forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money this year, and a thousand billion forints in total, on the development of a railway line that is basically used to transport Chinese mass products, when we see that the world economy will operate in a completely different way, and we will have to pay more attention to the fact that we can manufacture the most important tools, products and other domestic conditions. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, if you are here, Minister. We have heard about the processes in Romania, the fact that during the epidemic, the population is not informed in Hungarian. I understand that the Council of Europe has also expressed a very harsh criticism in this regard. In particular, the Romanian strategic and communication group does not issue Hungarian-language information, the Ministry of Health does not provide Hungarian-language information on the virus, on defence and on the legislation and restrictions there. The Ministry of Education did not create the possibility of online education in the minority language, in Hungarian, and the teachers, the municipalities, had to create it. This is obviously also a huge deficiency from the point of view of defence, and the Hungarian-speaking population may not have access to such basic information as to the restrictive measures, so we ask the Hungarian Government to take very firm measures on this matter. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On the part of the MSZP, Congressman Attila Mesterházy will respond. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I understood at the end why Minister spoke in Parliament today. Probably in order to try to mitigate or disprove the criticisms that appear at international level, since today's comment, excuse me, Minister, did not make any sense, since you could have said those sentences yesterday, tomorrow, and next week, even in a month's time. Nevertheless, as President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I am very pleased that you are talking about NATO here in Parliament, and I would like to offer you the help that has started in this self-reflective NATO process, and Parliament will also be involved in this, all Parliaments, and I would recommend that the Hungarian delegation take part in this. So there is another channel for the Hungarian government, not only the former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Poland, but also the Hungarian NATO delegation can play a role in this. [[9.20]] Let me recite two thoughts. One is that you said, Minister, that everyone in China is in line for these instruments. That is true, but let me therefore draw the Minister and the Government's attention to the fact that it is worth considering whether this is all right from a national security point of view. So wouldn't it be worth it when we rebuild the Hungarian economy, take this into account and rebuild it so that these strategic sectors are still within Europe, but would it be best if they were also available within Hungary? The second was that you talked about how the national responses worked, and then Zsolt Németh said that he hoped that a great international cooperation could come together. I trust that Zsolt Németh will be right, and not you. Indeed, a country can handle these answers, of course, locally, but I think it is not a question that we can fight with such a virus, with a global epidemic, only with international cooperation. Of course, it is also interesting what Zsolt Németh put forward that he divided the European Union by some letter initiated by these 13 countries. But let me ask Mr President why the Hungarian Government joined him then, because it is open to all EU Member States, if I have read it correctly. So if this has shared the European Union so much, then why on earth would they join it? And one last sentence: indeed Gruevski started the NATO accession negotiations, but it would never have been finished with him in life, because he would have needed a name change, which his party still does not support properly in North Macedonian public life. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your information. NATO membership of northern Macedonia is very important, as is NATO's fight against terrorism. NATO rightly saw in its 1991 and 1997 strategic concept that, in addition to weapons of mass destruction, it would be terrorism that would determine the next ten to fifteen years of this alliance. So far, security policy aspects have played a role in the fight against terrorism, but now, during the pandemic, health aspects also have to play a role, as we see the link between terrorism and illegal migration and the increasing spread of infection and the virus on the routes used by migrants. It is also very important to emphasise in the context of the Foreign Affairs Council, as the subject here was the Crown Virus, that instead of criticism, there should be a time for effective and not too late coordination. When an international organisation stresses that it is thinking in a team, it should also implement this in practice, and it should also accept that each Member State actually takes the necessary measures on the basis of its legal order, its economic situation. I think that a Treaty on the European Union or a North Atlantic Treaty does not make a difference in that we must now focus on the success of defence, above all, and on the protection of people's health. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have further speeches before the agenda. Mr Bence Tordai has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group: on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I think we still have nothing to do but talk about how the government saves the people in trouble, because Viktor Orbán's announcement yesterday was at least not reassuring in this regard. There's very little we've learned about what you've been talking about, and it's extremely weak. Perhaps we are looking at Europe's weakest crisis response package, the most important part of which remains in the dark. And that is, how you're gonna do it, the proportion the government is gonna take over the losses. We know that this point was only included, despite Viktor Orbán's earlier better conviction, because the European Union is giving hundreds of billion forints to make up for these salaries, so that the government will take over the lost wages. In other European countries, this transfer is 60-70-80 percent. The Dialogue demands that, and other opposition parties agree, at least 75-80 percent of the wages should be paid in Hungary as well. It would be very nice to learn something about this. Hopefully today will find out exactly what this looks like. But it is very sad, and it means that the Prime Minister announces this not here in Parliament, not even one of his ministers, but who knows where, speaking to which friendly media, or actually sharing a video, we will only be informed about it on the social media. But this is the only positive thing that we can highlight from the specifics, which really concerns crisis management, which is really to prevent and deal with the economic and social crisis that is devastating in the wake of the coronal virus epidemic. The Dialogue is easy because of the dozens of proposals we have tabled over the last few weeks, three plus one points stand out, and we simply have to look at these most important points being affected by the government's crisis management package. The thing is, the only thing that's going on out of these three is this pay transfer that we know very little about. Our plus one point, the doubling of the wages of health workers, was, well, handled in a very small part by the announcement that healthcare workers would receive a one-time gross allowance of 500 HUF, net, 330 HUF. About that much more money should be paid every month, not a one-time donation, which the Orbán government has graciously handed over, but a well-deserved one for which they work hard every day, and because of the lack of it there is now a huge shortage of workers in health care. We drink the juice of this, and we hope that the plague will not get worse so that it will mean extra human sacrifices. The other two points, which are perhaps the most important in the crisis, when according to Fidesz ministers hundreds of thousands of jobs are lost, are, on the one hand, the extension of the job search allowance, the reimbursement of the eligibility period to nine months, as it is this shamefully low of the OECD countries in Hungary alone, three months, which is the result of Fidesz' less favourable activity. It must also be increased, as it is now maximized at the minimum wage level. The Dialogue demands that the ceiling be double the minimum wage, as many people meet different payment obligations. You can't keep a family out of that if you're settled on a different cost level. So to extend, double or triple the time and amount of the unemployment allowance, that would be the next step we expect from the government. The third is perhaps the most important: in the most difficult situation, there are those who are not even entitled to a job search fee, whose revenue from anywhere is less than 100 thousand forints overall or 50 thousand forints per child. These people are now 3 to 3.5 million people in Hungary. So a third of the country would benefit from the basic income of crisis management that the Dialogue has been proposing for weeks, which is similar to the unconditional basic income that we have been proposing for five years and recommending to the attention of the current government. This crisis management basic income of 100,000 forints would provide or at least help everyday livelihoods for about 3 to 3.5 million people. And we're not talking in the air, the dialogue mayor, Márta V. Naszályi in District I announced yesterday that this crisis management basic income would be introduced. This can be done if the government is really paying attention to what is most important, the people's income security in this crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-07-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising these extremely important issues. In addition, as a result of his speech, it has become clear that the old ideological debate, or should I say, of economic philosophy, which has now been with us for more than ten years, seems to remain here. There are two kinds of approaches to economic development. One tells us to give aid to people; of course, this aid must be financed from somewhere, owed to the country, and then at the end be vulnerable to some kind of external forces. And there is another approach that tells us to give people jobs instead of aid, job opportunities. It is the responsibility of the State to create an investment environment in which jobs are created by companies, because it is worth creating and it is worth creating jobs in Hungary, and it is worth it to give work to Hungarian people. [[9.30]] I think that the last ten years, honourable Member, have shown that this latter economic philosophy is the result. Obviously, if we stand on the ground of facts and look at where the country stood in 2010, how 1.8 million taxpayers were trying to move this country away, and how 12 percent unemployment was, and up to 85 percent of the national economy's performance, then these facts clearly show that the economic philosophy that is based on giving people help instead of work has failed. Therefore, the Economic Protection Action Plan, honourable Member, on which the Prime Minister spoke in broad terms yesterday, and today Minister Palkovics will give further details, is based specifically on creating jobs, and there are also two chapters in this, honourable Member, one of which is to protect the jobs that are here in Hungary. Don't forget that there's no debate between 4.5 million people working, and I don't think it's ever happened since the change of regime, and I think it's much better for all of us, and the greater common success for all of us is that 4.5 million people are working, than saying how good it is to have 9 months' unemployment benefit. I would therefore continue to say that we should create jobs and protect jobs rather than give aid. Of course, we also clearly see that many jobs are at risk, because companies, as a result of the pandemic, have to make serious cuts in their orders. This then tells companies either to work or to discharge their employees during reduced working hours. Now, in order not to release their employees, the government is taking over 70 percent of the wage burden in the event that between 15 and 50 percent of working time is lost due to falling orders in the workplace. That's the first thing I can tell you. Secondly, we are creating the possibility that these companies, which can create additional jobs, will receive more than ever a 50% cash grant from the budget. This is based on the fact that the Commission has raised the minimum value of de minimis aid from 200,000 to 800 thousand euros in view of the pandemic, which means that we can support any investment up to 800 thousand euros. Therefore, we can help with a step-by-step increase in investment over EUR 150,000 with a 50% cash grant, which shows that the aim is not only to protect jobs currently at risk, but also to create new jobs. I would like to focus on this and pay attention, honourable Member, to urge people not to give as much aid as possible, but rather to cooperate with us in ensuring that as many people as possible continue to work in Hungary. If we managed to break the record of the number of people at work once again, I say: 4.5 million people, never before, well, isn't it better that we chose the way to raise unemployment benefits so that we can get as many unemployed as possible? I think that this is the way we need to go, and therefore the economic protection action plan that the government has decided on is correct, and the details of which will become clear in the coming days, and we are also asking for your support for the success of Hungary and for the success of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Csárdi, on behalf of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Minister Lords! It is quite clear that the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic has put the municipalities in a terrible position, which are already in difficulty: tax revenues failing, local businesses on the brink of bankruptcy, significant and high expenditure on epidemic protection and an existential crisis that needs to be addressed in part of the population. In this situation, the government has failed the municipalities, not only the opposition leaders, but also the leaders of the Fidesz settlements, because they are also on the front line and provide care for the elderly through the municipalities, ensure the care of the patients, and ensure the care of our countrymen in quarantine and quarantine. I'd like to give you some numbers for this. Today we have 15,000 countrymen under official quarantine, they are being provided by the municipalities, and I think that in such a situation, it is completely unacceptable that all kinds of decisions, let's say, should be taken away from the municipalities, and, yes, this is the withdrawal of the car tax. I know this in itself is not an erratic item in the local government budget, but if we put it next to it and you see it, and you see it, and you see it, I am sure that business tax and local tax revenues are practically, let's just say, halved or that there are local taxes that are completely gone, then I think that this is an extremely wrong situation. Free parking, free public parking in the city centre alone, is expected to cause a loss of about HUF 1 billion by the end of the year for the district V. It can also be said in the other districts of my constituency that it causes hundreds of millions of HUF losses, I stress, in the economic situation in which the municipalities are located. I think that the municipalities are doing their part, and yet this withdrawal does not really hit the municipalities, but the people who live there, the people who should be helped now, the people who can now be supported, and I think that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government, is expected by the population to want to help those in need. And here I would also argue with the Minister of Foreign Affairs: we are not talking about aid, we are talking here, that during a pandemic period, especially in the pandemic period, our fellow countrymen who have already lost their jobs and have no chance of getting a new job during the epidemic, we must help them, and we must not distribute aid, but we must ensure that, with the end of the epidemic, Hungary's competitiveness is maintained, so that Hungary can start again. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is the task of the Hungarian Government, and if it does not help workers in a hopeless situation, it will kill the effectiveness of this. I think it is worth talking about not just talking about partnership. I am in the lucky position that my constituency has four districts, perhaps the only one in this country, which has four districts, including Fidesz and opposition city leaders, providing subsidies instead of the Hungarian state [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Next to him! Next to him!]] for the residents. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Next to him!]] That's IX. Pandemic allowance introduced in the district, such as Section VIII the social fund introduced in the district, such as the aid already mentioned in district I, and such assistance provided in district V, which the mayor of the City of Belváros has decided to provide to the residents there. My request and my demand is for the Hungarian government to put on his side what is his task. These cannot be strictly left in the hands of a local government, because the resources will run out very quickly, and then the municipal system will also be in danger, the people who live here will also be in danger, and I think that the Hungarian government will not be able to push the state tasks away. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-07-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, If you don't take offense and the President doesn't take the floor from me because of the breach of house rules, I'd also like to address the faction leader's reaction to my agenda and your recent speech, and I would also like to answer your group leader. [[9.40]] The question of key masks for the effectiveness of health protection has been discussed and why we are helping countries south of us. [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] I'd like to inform you of the following. We have 116 258 940 masks. Of these 30 960 096 masks arrived in Hungary, and 8 086 000 masks arrive this week. These will be placed in the warehouse of the State Health Services Centre immediately after unloading from the aircraft, from which hospitals and health institutions will receive them. I would also like to give you the following information with respect. We have received a request from the mayor's office in Budapest, as well as from the opposition-led districts in Budapest, that the Budapest capital is 65 thousand, the VII. Circumference 40,000, Part VIII. 50,000 in the 11th district. A total of 10,000 masks were purchased by the district. We were asked for help by the mayors and the Mayor's Office in transporting these masks ordered from China to Budapest. With all due respect, on the plane rented by the State Department, the 165,000 masks arrived completely yesterday, and they were unpacked. The mayor's office already received them yesterday, and the district authorities can take them from the state health care center's warehouse today. At the same time, I respectfully inform you that if you need further air transport assistance from any district, any municipality or any mayor's office, the China-Hungary air bridge operated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is at your disposal. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I would also like to say to you that I agree with the suggestion made by Mr Group Leader when he says that it is unacceptable that epidemiological information is not available in Hungarian in Transylvania. This problem has already been reported to me by DAHR's leaders the last time I was in Cluj Napoca. Unfortunately, this fits well in the process of taking action on Hungarians living in Romania, Transylvania and Szeklerland, as the Romanian Minister of Foreign Affairs has asked us to, and we have fulfilled, the opening of three border crossings on the border between Romania and Hungary for commuters in parentheses and full correctness, or, let me say, for the sake of breaking the whole truth, this was in our interest, for example, while punishing the Mayor of Sepsiszentgyörgy for exposing the national flag on 15 March. So it is clear that mutual respect is still very far away in the bilateral relations between Romania and Hungary, but I agree with you. I would also like to inform you that, while some of the EU's colleagues have suggested that it is included in the Crown Virus Act, that no interim elections can be held, the municipal elections have been postponed in Romania. Ladies and gentlemen, What I can tell you about the questions raised by the Member is that I understand that a person's reflexive idea of the difficult economic situation is to give aid. I do not think this is bad intentions, I say it again, but I think it is much better that we help people by saving their jobs or creating new jobs. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Amazing!]] That's why I'd like to tell you this. I think it is very important to help companies in difficulty not to lose their competitiveness, and when this whole pandemic situation is over or we are nearing the end, they are the best ones to throw away. This is what support is needed to keep the workforce. This is the goal of preferential guarantees and loans with which they can remain competitive in international markets; with which we can put guarantees behind their loans; by which we can secure insurance against late-paying foreign sales and by which we can provide them with low-cost working capital loans or investment loans. So, honourable Member, this debate is likely to continue between us in the coming period. We're trying to get those people who just lost their jobs to find a job as soon as possible. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As soon as possible, jobs that have now ceased to exist can be re-established because we want to create at least as many new jobs as the pandemic has put at risk. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-07-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, On the subject of the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, MEP Ágnes Vadai from the DK Group asked for an opportunity to speak. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-07-25	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Yesterday at noon I did what I had never done: I connected to one of the channels of party propaganda television that lied to public television, because I hoped that a man in a suit would stand there and say: Behold, after weeks of inaction and opposition abuse, here is this package; this package, which reassures all citizens of Hungary that there really is no one left on the side of the road. So what happened? There stood several members of the government with suits and costumes, headed by Viktor Orbán, and kicked the Hungarians from the side of the road into the ditch. You, your government, have done nothing in recent weeks against dismissals; you have done nothing to help companies pay their wages; you have given no help to people who have lost their jobs or to the elderly. Then, after weeks of inaction, when you stood up for the big announcement, you said it would all stay that way. But let's make it clear who gets what and how much, and let your numbers speak for me. Full-time workers with reduced salary: zero HUF. Full-time workers who were sent on unpaid leave: zero forints. I was dismissed because of the crisis: zero forints. Parents with little children who went on vacation because they had to stay at home with their children: zero forints. Older people who have to face record high prices in stores due to record weak forints: zero forints. Disability pensioners: zero forints. Home care fee: zero forints. With regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, I would say zero forints, but this programme, which you have presented, or at least outlined in broad outline by the Prime Minister, is more or less encouraging or forcing companies to take credit, so instead of zero forints, it will eventually become less. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how much this package is worth, what it is worth for the Hungarians now: exactly zero forints, because this package will not save one job and will not help one Hungarian citizen who has lost his job. What I see is that you or your friends have become billionaires in recent years. I understand that those who have taken the castles, the fields, the hotels, the tramps, the companies or the entire industries without work do not really understand how bad the problem is, and why is it that the Hungarians cannot work now. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] I understand you don't see that drama when you look down from a luxury helicopter while you're cooking pacals. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] What this country is going through. [[István Szilárd Németh: This is my destiny...]] I also understand that in the back seat of the 50 million SUV and the black van of the Prime Minister, the cries of people who do not know what will happen in the next period because they do not know; because their situation is completely hopeless, and they hoped that on Monday the Prime Minister would announce a package that would give them at least a short period of opportunity. You have stolen so much in the last ten years that you have lost your sense of reality and lost your relationship with the very miserable Hungarian reality. I understand that Lawrence Ripper doesn't worry about the crisis. He received 17 billion forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money not too long ago. And of course, the son-in-law doesn't have to worry. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] But what we are seeing here, my fellow Members, is that the dishonest, who have become the richest citizens of Hungary by using Hungarian taxpayers' contributions and European resources without work, do not really understand why honest people should be helped. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They don't know!]] And the real drama is that you don't even assess how much trouble this country is in. Understand that without state intervention and substantial crisis management Hungarians will be ruined, Hungarian companies, Hungarian families, Hungarian citizens. Looks like you guys let go of their hands. But if it isn't, if we're wrong, then it's time to prove it's better later than never. Innumerable programmes, proposals were made by opposition parties, including the Democratic Coalition, and a 20-point proposal was made. [[István Szilárd Németh: Go!]] That's about 3,000 billion forints. Of this, the European Union will pay 2,000 billion, if, of course, you do not steal it. We believe that there should be an immediate benefit for the elderly; that the family allowance should be doubled immediately; that 80% of their previous salary should be guaranteed to Hungarian workers who have lost their jobs; that there should be substantial help for Hungarian businesses; that the period for granting unemployment benefits should be extended; that there should be a regime oratorium and that all assistance should be given to Hungarian citizens. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Viktor Orbán, who is imagining himself as a Hungarian general, is very fond of war; he can be very skilled, he is still at war. I'm surprised you don't know Montecuccoli's saying that war requires three things: money, money, money. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm the only one who adds that it certainly doesn't need propaganda and promise. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[9.50]]
u2020-04-07-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as rich people are concerned, I'd like to say in chief that your party president is taking out hundreds of millions of dividends from his company, not us. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] He comes from a confiscated villa, not us, and he gives his own company preferential power when he was head of government, not us. So much for dishonesty. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I'm not going to say anything new by the fact that the coronal virus epidemic has a wide range of social consequences. In any case, the government must address two main areas: the protection of people's lives is the first, the second and perhaps we agree on the reduction of economic damage, and thus primarily the protection of jobs. We'll do that, the government will do that. I know it's not your job to list the decisions you've made in the last few days here, but it's certainly not your job to commend this... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me, Congresswoman, to say the same thing: I have listened to you, along with my fellow Members. You don't have a job to tell me why. But you can't say it's nothing, because the government has suspended the repayment of the loans until the end of the year, which applies to all loans concluded before 18 March. In the most troubled sectors, the employer's tax does not have to be paid and more than 80,000 small entrepreneurs do not have to pay the flat-rate tax by 30 June. Evictions are suspended. It's something you refer to here at Parliament meetings. And as for yesterday's announcements: in the case of shorter work, the state takes over some of the labour costs from employers, the details... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Allow me, Congresswoman, to say that I will listen to you every time. Details of this will be published in the next few days by the ministries or government regulations. We will rebuild the 13th month pension, with HUF 450 billion for investments and HUF 2000 billion for preferential interest and guaranteed loans. Obviously, these measures involve a substantial reshuffle of the budget, we know that. When you minimize the scale of support programmes, what you should know is that transfers affect around 18-20 percent of GDP, you cannot say nothing. When it comes to your package of proposals, I look at this, and I always look at it, and the main problem we have with it is that they take mass unemployment as a gift, as an almost embedded circumstance. The problem with this, honourable Member, is that this is a self-fulfilling prophecy. If high unemployment is already expected, it also means that they will give up fighting it, and we want to protect jobs, and this is a huge difference between the two concepts. Among their proposals, honourable Member, there is a series that is more talkative than anything else: it is said that in some cases, even if there is no work, there should be a wage. Now, that's a huge difference, because this would be a huge backseat for a time when it was more worth living on welfare than from work, when relief ruled over the honor of work. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The results have been achieved, Mrs Right-wing Member, associated with MSZP, and the results have been achieved. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] 12 per cent unemployment. Twelve! They also have suggestions on family support, but we take them in doubt because they had proposals like this before, and then they put salt on a well-functioning family support system that had to be rebuilt after 2010. Let's look at the pensions. I understand you're proposing a pension supplement. But who's suggesting it? Those who took a month's allowance from no less than 2.4 million pensioners. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! They took it!]] They didn't give, they took me. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was voted by the whole left; it was voted by your fellow Members. Let's look at the list: Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, your party president, Lajos Oláh, László Varju; and see if you voted for it: yes, Congresswoman, your name is also on the record, Dr. Ágnes Vadai. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And how is this going to help those who do not have a job? The president's ringing the bell.]] And after that, honourable Member, you are asking for the government. I'm bringing this here because what you're presenting is net hypocrisy, and I'd use a more emotional sign if we weren't in such an extraordinary situation. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Yesterday, you accused the government of giving way to an economic crisis. The opposite is true: we would give way to the crisis if we listened to you and turned back. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] the aid-based era, where work had no honor, the economy had no growth and the country had no positive prospects. We've had a hard time getting out of this, and we don't want to turn back here. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-28	Thank you very much. Dear Congresswoman Damm Andrea, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Varga-Damm Andrea!]] I would just like to point out that from the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács will be next... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Congresswoman, you should also know that, according to the rules of the house, these interrogations can be counterbalanced very seriously. I'm asking everyone to remain calm. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. ) Congresswoman, don't force me to use disciplinary measures. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Mr Lajos Korózs has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the MSZP Group on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-29	Good morning. Thank you so much for the opportunity. It is the World Health Day, but I do not want to talk about health and health before the agenda, although all thanks are due to those who stand today in the field of health, and I would like to speak in the interest of the social profession. For the benefit of the social profession, and no matter in which field of the profession these people work, they are invisible in family care or in child welfare services, or in homeless care, but in many cases these people are invisible. They are invisible to the majority of society, because the dispatcher who works behind the computer in the care of the homeless is invisible, and often the villager is invisible to the whole settlement, but without them the country would not work today, I think, and that is why we should thank them for their work. People in the social sector pay a huge price. The other day I read that there are five people serving 60 elderly people in a residential nursing home, and their shift sharing seems to be the three of them at night serving their services, and today they're doing everything: everything. Not only do they feed old people, they not only bathe, wash, diapers, but now they also have to do the washing, because the supply company that washed the linens and clothes has been destroyed, even though these social workers also have wives, husbands, children, or elderly parents who are in need of care. These people earn dearly little, and that is why I am raising my voice now, and I am asking the member of the government, who will respond to my comments before the agenda, that they can count on the same HUF 500,000 allowance that we hope will be received by those working in the social sector. After all, we know that the police received this 500,000 forint months ago. And I ask you how you can expect the health pay table to be enforced in the social sector, and you can expect free travel during the crisis. After all, these people, social workers, hundreds of thousands of people in need, must now carry 8-10-15 kilos of luggage, whether they carry food or protective equipment. And I ask the member of the government how they can expect personal protective equipment from those working in the social sector, because they also need it, especially in order to protect themselves, but also in order to stop being infected. So you have to get the same protective equipment as the health care workers get. And can they count on testing? After all, it is clear that those who have been tested can continue to work, but these tests can help to detect further infections. I checked a neighbouring country to see why they were able to keep the number of infections to a very low degree, partly the number of deaths. [[10.00]] I'm just going to mention a few points of what you've missed. The first was that I was constantly tested, tested and tested. The other is that they were hospitalized before their condition got worse, and this is also very important, and a third of them searched their contacts, so that they could find out where they had been before. There was plenty of room in intensive care and they were able to follow everyone's so-called sick way. Yeah, and what's not negligible is they trust the government. I'm asking you, now the medical staff can trust the government. Can you trust the government that they will receive this HUF 500,000? Can you trust the government that they will also get the free travel opportunity and can you trust the government that, in addition to free travel, they will also receive personal protective equipment? I look forward to your honored answer. Thank you very much. I know, of course, that this is not an interview hour, but I think that the State Secretary responsible for health and the social sector will answer my questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-07-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. You were right, Congressman, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We cannot say it enough here in Parliament that there is a lot of people to thank in these weeks and in the coming weeks, even to those who work in hospitals as nurses, doctors alongside sickbeds, or to those who are one of the most vulnerable communities in the social sphere, the elderly are trying to protect them from this infection. So their work should be appreciated. I think it is important that we have been able to start this year by introducing a 14 percent wage increase in the social sphere from 1 January. This was an important step, and it was important to raise these benefits. There was a sectoral wage supplement, a former sectoral wage supplement. This has also raised, to a visible extent, the salaries of workers in the social sphere. But I think it was fair that they got at least one raise this size in January this year. Obviously, the government will be working to increase their security, as it has been before. This has not always been the case, honourable Member, since you were a member of that government. [[Lajos Korózs and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] which has not increased but reduced benefits for social workers [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Fifteen years ago!]] a month's wages were taken from all Hungarian social workers, not just pensioners, as State Secretary Csaba Dömötör said earlier, but you also took a month's wages from all social workers. At the time, the norm was also reduced, with HUF 30,000 the basic standard was reduced in nursing homes, and by HUF 100,000 the increased supply of residential institutions was reduced. All you said was that old people can be cared for by neighbors and friends. In fact, he also said, and I quote, I also know the state normative that, by the way, from tax forints. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] are added to this fee and the amount of a one-off entry fee. You, then, as Secretary of State for Social Affairs, were a little different to the issue and justified where it should be and not where it should be, but in what areas you are taking funds from the social sector, and you said that this was correct and fair. On the other hand, we have also tried to increase resources in this area. If you look at it, 75,000 people could benefit from home assistance in 2010, now this number is over 90,000, so from 75,000 to 92,000 people employed in this job. You said it was very important that the more people working in the social institution and in the care sector, the better the quality of care. Here, in domestic assistance, you have done this task with 5700 people, and we have increased the number of people employed in this job to 12 386. It was possible because the per capita care support rate was set at HUF 145 thousand, and we were set at HUF 330 thousand, so it was possible to employ more people in this area. It is very important, as you have said, that the people of social institutions and those who work there must be treated as a priority during an epidemic. Therefore, the officer's doctor has already taken several measures and not only practical advice, but also circulars and measures have been implemented. The chief of staff ordered a visitation ban and later ordered not only a visitation, but also an admission and curfew. So you can't pick up a new one, or go out and come back, so you can't increase the chance of a virus infection. All kinds of contact with the outside world have been kept to a minimum. Some social workers have also moved into social services to protect the elderly there. The importance of personal hygiene, washing hands, alcoholic hand sanitizer, dispenser, ventilation, and other antiviral substances were highlighted by the physician in his first circular. Later, it published additional strict professional protocol standards covering both specialized social institutions and temporary homes of child protection institutions, correction institutions, families and children. Everyone can read these, we have published them on the social sector portal for everyone. These are more prudent hygiene protocols. The operation of daytime institutions had to be completely suspended, as this could have been an important source of infection. We've also reduced the administration. The more things can be done electronically and on the phone, the less paper and pen usage, which can also increase the infection, is excluded from the daily usage signatures. We will also mobilise those in social training where necessary. This notification has been received and will be received. In the institutions, we have issued a new protocol for persons specifically dealing with cases of coronal virus, separate rooms. The regionally competent public health authorities have been contacted. So we tried to help in all areas; even the disabled now sew masks on several shifts. Thank you for the sacrifice of all social institutions. In what we know, we're trying to protect them, too. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-07-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Mr László György Lukács, the notary of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda, on behalf of the Group of Jobbik. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-33	[[His mic's not working.]] Mr President, I think we should reset it. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then you can go.]] Because as a notary...
u2020-04-07-34	I would like your help to reschedule the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You'll get a microphone!]] We'll wait for the congressman's name or hand mike to appear. [[Dr. László György Lukács has a hand-held microphone placed in front of him.]] There he is, thank you. That's where we start the speech. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Unlimited time frame!]] I don't know if it's coming out. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's hear it.]] He's listening. We just don't see time. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Infinite!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for this speech today because there are a number of things that need to be discussed as regards health care and the control of the epidemic, in its area. Firstly, allow me to thank not only health workers but also social workers, law enforcement workers and even trade workers who are currently guaranteeing the country's viability. To discuss health issues in particular today, when it is the anniversary of the founding of the WHO, the United Nations specialized organisation for health, was established on 7 April 1948. As we can see, the WHO itself has played a major role in defence, both with its policies and with its direction of defence. One of the main objectives of Hungary is to build the success of defence and to slow down the spread of the epidemic. Obviously, very serious measures are needed in order to slow this down. The aim of slowing down is to reduce the burden on health. If this can be set in a series, it can be said that everyone has to protect themselves and their environment in the first place, protecting health and saving lives in Hungary. But in order to slow down its spread, we need to point out a very important question. Today we discussed the question of masks. I ask the representative of the government, who would answer, how could he support a rule that is another restrictive rule, but also a defensive rule, that in Hungary, masking should be mandatory in public areas or in public places, so that the necessary masks, such as protective devices, are provided by the state. I base this particularly on the fact that Minister Szijjártó has just said, if I remember correctly, that Hungary is under contract for 116 million masks, so 116 million masks are expected to arrive. Of these, he put the number of masks to 30 million, I can't remember the exact number that has arrived in Hungary at the moment, is available and is in the warehouses of the State Medical Supply Center. [[10.10]] So in view of all this, regardless of the fact that Viktor Orbán said last week that he could not guarantee that every citizen would have a mask to support the government's introduction of such a very important security tightening and obligation? This would be very necessary, and we can obviously refer to international examples, because due to the fact that in Hong Kong, otherwise very close to China, or in Singapore, also located in the area, there is a high degree of compulsory masking and masking, the spread of the virus has been well controlled, and indeed, it seems that in many eastern countries, masking is particularly widespread in community spaces and in public places. It was added there, so it had a multiplier effect on the defense that people were wearing masks. I would also like to ask you, and in your speech to Parliament, to encourage everyone to stay at home if they can, but if they can't, to wear a mask in the public area, because it helps to defend themselves. On this point, how to help: it is the municipalities who have, in many cases, already taken action in this area. For example, there are many municipalities in Eger that provide people free of charge with multi-use washable masks, which are absolutely necessary. This is where we focus attention on another problem. That is why it is important that the government in the municipalities often sees not a means of taking money, not a political rival or opponent, but a partner. In recent days, it has become clear that more settlements, even all settlements, have to give up their vehicle tax revenues up to HUF 34 billion. Let me give you a simple example. For example, in Csaba Dömötör's birthplace or in his hometown, Gyöngyös, a hundred million-dollar hole in the budget is the exception of the car tax. He obviously said HUF 90 million, so we're talking gross-net amounts, it's a 2020 plan. We can see that as the size of the settlement increases, and as the number of vehicles increases, it is becoming a growing problem and an increasing hole in the budget. It is not entirely the case that this is a very small part of the municipality's budget, especially because, very often, some public transfers appear as a passing-through item on the municipal budget, so they are essentially not for own management, not for road development, nor for the development of sidewalks, as this source could have served. I would like to make one more very important point for you, and here on World Health Day it is particularly worth considering. Many countries have taken advantage of the possibility for the United States, but for example, the SEAT car factory in Spain to produce respirators and parts and equipment for them on the vehicle production lines. This is particularly justified, or could be particularly justified in Hungary, because we also have capacity, typically our factories have stopped, so that we could give work to the workers there at the same time and protect the Hungarian people. In conclusion, I would therefore like to encourage everyone and the government to provide for mandatory masking, to consider the production of ventilators, and to ask you to see a partner and not an enemy in the municipalities. Do not take money from them, but give them the opportunity to help them defend themselves. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-36	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The question of the mask is important to everyone. It is also important for the government to have adequate protective equipment available to everyone who is required. You have heard it today, and you may even hear it, that with the 30 planes that have arrived in the last few days, including the world's largest cargo plane, we have tried to do everything we can to ensure that all the protective equipment is available for protection. It is important to point out at the outset that we are likely to have a long defense here. So it is not a day, not a week, many weeks, many months in advance, and therefore all protective equipment must be assigned in such a way that, under this long protection, the most vulnerable are always provided with a sufficient and adequate level of protective equipment. That is also the way to approach the mask issue, honourable Member. You mentioned the formation of the WHO, its anniversary. In the matter of masks, allow me to quote two of the leaders of the WHO you mentioned. The first is Mike Ryan, Managing Director of WHO. Regarding the mask issue, he said that there is no concrete evidence that wearing masks would potentially benefit the public, and even some evidence suggests the opposite because of improper use or fitting. The other leader, who is the WHO's epidemiological expert, said that in a community we do not recommend wearing a mask unless he is sick; in this case, he can prevent further spread. So if you're looking at WHO statements that say you should wear a mask if you cough or sneeze and a healthy person basically doesn't need it, then I think it's worth starting with. Indeed, since this disease is now known for its spread with a drop of infection, it is important that anyone who is sick should wear a mask to stop spreading it to others. It is also important that, when you are hospitalized, you are familiar with the protocol in this regard, as has been explained here in Parliament, both for the patient and for the caregivers, you will be provided with a surgical mask, and you will have to wear it, precisely in order not to spread the virus between you, and for those who are more seriously treating patients with the coronal virus, we will also provide a special mask for them. These are, therefore, the measures that are important in order to protect health. You know the mask should be used well. If you keep touching your nose and mouth because of the mask, you can increase the risk of infection, even if you are wearing gloves, because you can carry the infection to your mouth, nose, mucous membranes. So it is important that those who really need it in the first line are constantly assured that we have done so in the past period. In the last few weeks, 19 million 712 thousand surgical masks arrived, 1 million 700 thousand special masks, 206 thousand masks, the 8 tons of mask material suitable for further masking either in prisons or in other institutions, and I could say here the rubber gloves, ventilators, protective clothing, 100,000 tests, 100,000 goggles or 27 tons of other equipment that came in Hungary were all ordered to protect the health of Hungarian people. We also try to follow the WHO recommendation in this area, and Hungary also worked according to it and did so. You know very well that the various WHO executives, the Hungarian office manager, have also said that the authorities are doing their job, they are able to detect new cases, if necessary, and the WHO's Emergency Programme Director has also said that the measures adopted in Hungary are suitable for detecting cases. So they all said that the WHO leaders in office, who really know their procedures, are doing the right thing in these parts. Nevertheless, we have tried to obtain everything as quickly as possible and to take measures as quickly as possible. If you only look at the fact that the emergency was announced on the 7th day following the first disease, while, for example, in Slovenia on the 9th day or in Italy on the 38th day, you can see that Hungary has tried to move quickly. Honourable Congressman, You have raised the issue of local governments several times here, and I wanted to mention this in the remaining time. It is very important that everyone participates in the protection against the coronal virus. The largest amount is the government, the central budget, involved in this. In the highest proportion, parties, as 50 percent of their additional support must be transferred to the control of the coronal virus, and to a greater extent than the municipalities, multinational companies and banks are involved in this joint task, but I believe that it is acceptable for everyone to have a role in this. The government has also taken a number of measures, and I cannot explain them to you in the absence of time, but it is also important that the municipalities, large companies, everyone else participate in the efforts to defeat the coronal virus and then restart the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László György Lukács returns to the notary seat.]]
u2020-04-07-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, on behalf of the KDNP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the direction that we have experienced in Hungarian foreign policy in recent years is very right, because in recent years, we should be small! Instead, let's keep adjusting! Instead, and let's bow our heads! Instead of his politics, a foreign policy developed along the lines of Hungarian interest has been outlined, where Hungarian national interest is always the number one foreign policy interest, and it has always been a partnership based on mutual respect, but the rejection of double standards in the focus of foreign policy. [[10.20]] Obviously, in this extraordinary situation, the task of foreign policy and foreign affairs has changed, as the Minister has already talked about before the agenda, the way in which diplomatic relations have changed, and the way in which they are effective, so we should probably build on what we have been able to build so far and manage what we have been able to acquire, either in favours or in good partnerships. I have to say that one of the first tasks in connection with the corona virus epidemic in recent years was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, since when Hungary was only at the stage of preparation, there were already Hungarian citizens around the world who were either infected or quarantined. Thus, obviously contact with them, their care and their return were a huge task, and we can also remember those Hungarian citizens who had been rescued from Wuhan and the region who had been able to get home in time. Here, too, I would like to thank the Hungarian diplomats, the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the people around the world who helped these processes. It is very important that Hungary's biggest rehabilitation process has taken place in recent days. Yesterday's number was 7841, that's how many citizens returned home during this period. I also think that the message is clear: wherever the Hungarian people are, either at home or abroad, they can count on the Hungarian government, count on their country, count on our assistance. I think that in such a difficult situation, it is a very strong message that everyone can count on the Hungarian government, everyone can count on their country, including citizens who have arrived from around the world in 7841 and are expected to have more citizens in the coming days. I think that this is a very, very big achievement, and we have helped them, for which, obviously, in this situation, we can be particularly grateful that this was a well-organized action that was successful. We have been talking about the acquisition of assets today, but I think that we should talk about the double standard that has taken over Hungary in the world these days. What we see today is that health equipment and protective equipment for protection can primarily be purchased in the East, especially from China. We have already talked about the huge numbers that we have committed, the items that have already arrived, or will arrive in the near future, in the coming weeks, because we see that the acquisition of assets is extremely difficult, virtually free robbery is taking place in the world. Every country competes with each other. Obviously, there is no ideology for help, so we are happy to help everyone and accept help from everyone. Unfortunately, from around the House of the European Union, we have seen only criticisms, the usual concerns and double standards; as well as the fact that Minister for Foreign Affairs informed us the last time that the European Union had only woken up at the last moment in the context of repatriation and dealt with this issue by letter dated 31 March. I don't think that's right. The European Union is lagging behind, it is clear that nation-state solutions are effective, and it is clear that we must act on our own here. We are pleased to receive any help from the European Union, but this is not the way to succeed in this difficult situation. It is also very important that we have closed our borders, but at the same time that there are exceptions. It is also important that commuters in Slovakia, Serbia, Slovenia or Croatia or Romania are able to carry out the border crossings for agricultural work, industrial work or any work necessary for their work on either one side or on the other, so I would like to ask Minister what results have been achieved with regard to opening border crossing points in this respect. But I think it is very important that we keep our borders closed in all other cases, because we can see that this virus has also been introduced from abroad. It is very important that this is an effective step in this case, so that our borders are closed apart from these exceptions. It is very important to always reject double standards, and it is very important that everything is in trouble [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let us help a Hungarian citizen, and let us send a message from here that everyone can count on us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to the speech by the Member before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, we thank you for the words of appreciation, and then I will, of course, forward them to those you deserve. What concerns our tasks as a result of the pandemic situation is obviously our number one task is to protect the health and life of Hungarian people. The second is to bring home all Hungarians who are stranded abroad, without their own fault. The third is to restart Hungary's economy. As far as returning home is concerned, I would like to inform you that Hungary's history is indeed the biggest return action, which has an interesting feature: not only the number of Hungarians brought home is growing, but also the number of Hungarians to be brought home. So, despite the fact that I was able to tell you here yesterday that we brought home 7841 people, today this number has increased to 7995, i.e. to 8000 in the absence of 5; until yesterday, we had to organize 883 people in addition, and now 928 in today. So not only the Hungarians who have been brought home, but also the Hungarians who are looking for help from the point of view of home. I would like to make it clear here that, of course, all Hungarians stranded abroad can count on us for their return, and in the coming period we will help all Hungarians to return home, partly on a national basis and partly in cooperation with Central European countries. There is much debate about the role of the European Union. I would like to point out that on 31 March the European Union Commissioner for Disasters wrote that we can count on the EU's financial assistance on 31 March. We spent the whole March bringing home EU citizens, including Hungarians, and on the other hand I hear that 200 Hungarians came home with the help of the European Union in some way, pravo is 2.5 percent of the 8 thousand we brought home. So if there really was that help, then we consider it extremely generous and thank you. With regard to the closure of border crossing points and the partial reopening of border crossing points, there is also a clear preference order: to protect people's health and at the same time to ensure that the economy is operational. Our country made EUR 43 billion in trade flows last year with the seven neighbouring countries. The question of the functioning of the economies is extremely closely interlinked, and we have therefore done everything in our power to ensure that freight traffic is running smoothly with all neighbouring countries, and so it is. So we are maintaining crossing points with all seven neighbouring countries where international freight traffic is given the opportunity. We operate 10 border crossing points for Slovakia. There are eight places for freight traffic. With regard to Romania, 9 out of 21 crossings operate, 3 of which are new openings: Bee Wheel, Létávértes and Vállai. I have already mentioned that the Romanians have asked for their opening because of the commuting; it was also in our interest, so we have opened them. With regard to Slovenia, we opened two additional crossing points to the border in the northern part of the border, because the 3 existing border crossing points were in the southern part of the Hungarian-Slovenian border section, so commuters can also pass through Kétvölgy and Bajánsenya. With the Croatians, we opened all 7 crossing points before commuting. There are 8 crossing points in Austria's train. Now we will also initiate another opening. The rules of commuting there look like they can work in Austria without limit; I mean that regardless of the mileage limit, Hungarians who go out or where the regulation is the strictest, the case of Serbia and Ukraine. Both the Serbs and the Ukrainians closed the crossings even before their own citizens. Serbia and Ukraine are currently operating 3 crossing points for international freight traffic, but there are several indications that the possibility of commuting should be opened here as well. We've been discussing this with the Serbs. For the time being, their regulation is in the opposite direction, but we have initiated the opening of 2 crossing points, and proposals have also been made to ask for the opening of crossing points in relation to Transcarpathia. Of course, we will do this, and we will see how effective that will be. Finally, I would also like to inform you that we have bought a complete line of machinery from China, which is being installed as we speak. Hopefully it'll be operational this week, and it'll be able to produce 2.8 million medical masks a month. There is also the order file that I have already had the opportunity to report here. 116 million out of 259 thousand Mask orders, over 30 million have already arrived, 8 million are still coming this week, so I think we have the tools for health protection at our disposal. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your patience, Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.30]]
u2020-04-07-42	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Erik Bánki, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We live on the 28th day of the emergency in Hungary, and we cannot say it enough, we cannot thank people who work beyond their strength every day and at the risk of their health so that as many of our compatriots as possible can maintain their health and who are in trouble, we can help as quickly as possible. So from here, among the walls of the House, again, I thank all the doctors, nurses, medical carriers, policemen, soldiers, shop salesmen, pharmacists and people working in many areas for the exceptional quality and high performance they have performed in recent weeks. At the same time, we cannot bypass the fact that, in addition to reducing the consequences of the outbreak of the virus, which is an emergency for people in Hungary, we are faced with the economic impact that we will have in the coming weeks and months. In his speech before the last agenda in Parliament, Minister, he said that countries with much greater economic power are also in huge trouble and that they must take very serious decisions to reduce the scale of the economic downturn and to lead their economies out of the crisis that this epidemic is pushing them into. The situation in Hungary is no different. I especially thank the government for the rapid decisions it has made in the field of economic protection, not to mention the programme that Prime Minister announced yesterday, which is the biggest economic development programme of all time. I think that with these rapid and decisive decisions we can achieve that, although the impact of the crisis can also reach us, we can reduce the consequences of this, and we can quickly create the conditions for relaunching the economy. In particular, I thank the government for continuously consulting with employers who are in trouble, with interest protection organisations who have a strong position on what they can do in their own profession, in their own territory, and what they propose to the Hungarian government. One of the most important measures announced in the second stage is that we can keep jobs as much as possible. As a result, it is expected that the government will take over a certain portion of the wages, which the Fidesz faction specifically welcomes. In addition, we must not go beyond the fact that, in addition to the economic protection plan, in the programme called family and pension protection, the government is restoring the 13th month pension, and thus the pensioners, who are now in the most difficult situation in the crisis, can help in substance. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Next year!]] This year, you will receive a week's and a week's extra pension in January, and from then on you will receive a week's extra pension in four years, just the additional monthly supplement, my fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, that was taken from Hungarian pensioners by your government, led by Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But it's not! Sándor Font intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Take a look at the euro exchange rate!]] Within the framework of the economic development programme, Hungarian businesses will have more than HUF 2000 billion at their disposal. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to obtain interest-supported and guaranteed loans, they will be able to launch improvements that are essential for them. The government started saving the necessary savings on its own as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, thus taking away and transferring a total of HUF 1345 billion from the wallets, which will be placed in the fund for economic protection and rebooting. The protection fund for the epidemic costs HUF 663 billion. In this context, due to the common burden-sharing, the commercial tax on multinational chains, the contribution of the financial sector, the motor vehicle tax part of the local governments, and we politicians have to pay 50% of the party subsidies, which we also approve and support. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me finally thank you for the exemplary cooperation of Hungarian society that we have seen in recent days and in recent weeks. Re-launching the economy and replacing the lost jobs can only be successful and effective if the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, representatives and leaders of Hungarian large companies, leaders of multinational companies and together with the government we can re-launch the economy with government support programmes, with only a small number of government intentions in this area. That's what I'm asking every politician and every economic operator in the next few days. Allow me to conclude my comment with a quote from Buddha: "Let your smile change the world, but don't let the world change your smile. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to protecting the health of Hungarian people and bringing home Hungarian people stranded across the border, one of our most important tasks is to restart the Hungarian economy, in which I can tell you that we can start from a very good foundation, since last year we broke the record of investments in Hungary: companies decided on a new investment of HUF 1705 billion in Hungary, resulting in 13 thousand new jobs. In the current geopolitical context, I think it is worth noting that 47.8 percent of this investment amount belongs to eastern investors, including Korean investors, to whom we owe one third of the total jobs created. The most important task in the coming period is to protect the record number of jobs created in Hungary and create new jobs: we need to create as many jobs as are lost because of the challenges of the pandemic. Therefore, I respectfully inform you that we are opening up very serious funds and programmes for new corporate investments, and we are launching serious programmes to take advantage of the changes made by the European Union to increase the so-called de minimis to EUR 800 000, i.e. the aid framework that can be granted without an investigation. We are launching an investment promotion programme that supports investment from €150,000 in investment, starting from 30 percent to 50 percent in cash support, investments that create jobs, preserve jobs and increase competitiveness in Hungary. We have already launched an EU notification of this programme, and we are waiting for an answer. We hope that the European Union will act faster than usual here and will allow us to open these financial instruments for Hungarian companies, I stress, from national budgetary sources. I also think it is extremely important that we maintain the market position of Hungarian companies that have gained serious competitiveness on the world market. The fact that in Hungary the export/GDP ratio in Hungary is 86 percent clearly shows the degree to which we are competitive on the world market is proof of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, the expertise, the working love and the high quality of its work, so it is important to create the opportunity for exporting companies not to lose their capacities and lose their markets. Therefore, through Eximbank, we will launch a loan scheme with a discount rate of HUF 400 billion, which will be used partly for working capital and partly for investment. For example, for small and medium-sized enterprises, in the case of working capital loans within a year, the rate of interest on loans will be 0.1 per cent, which, I think, will provide sufficient bridging assistance for the difficult period of the coming months. Similarly, we believe it is important that companies that have borrowed loans from commercial banks do not lose their position. The fact that commercial banks like to have better quality and more guarantees from companies who have credit is always a consequence of such crises. [[10.40]] We will therefore launch a 50 billion HUF guarantee programme at Eximbank, which will enable Eximbank to back up the companies with loans. Thus, the rating of these companies will not deteriorate, so there will be no need to increase additional resources in order to replenish the collateral. Finally, we also consider it important to help exporting companies that are in a difficult situation because there is a difficult situation around the world and therefore, where appropriate, there is no solvent demand for their goods on the external markets, even if they are delivered. However, in order to ensure that they do not lose their markets and continue to be able to transport them, we are launching an insurance scheme to ensure that these exporting companies are overcome by non-payment difficulties for 360 days. You have to see, as we say, 30-60 days of payments for export products, now this period can extend. This obviously puts companies in a difficult position, and this programme will start to bridge them. So I can tell you that, given the future competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, we are indeed facing the most important economic protection action plan of all time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with general debates. I call on my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order, as indicated in the previously published Director-General's Information, if they do not take part in this debate. I also call on the Members involved in the debate to remain in the Chamber only if possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, in the debate and in the two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, I will also indicate the names of the two Members who followed him during the announcement of the next speaker. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to settle land ownership of land under land use rights and to amend certain land laws until closure. The government referral is T/9932. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-47	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Based on the practical experience of the Land Traffic Act and the related legislation that entered into force during 2014, the legislative expectation that the legislation would help to promote the production structure based on family farms, to preserve the population and income-generating capacity of the villages, to increase it, and to strengthen the economic positions of livestock farming, while effectively filtering out domestic and foreign speculators and ensuring that the land remains in national jurisdiction. The proposal for a law before you on the right of land ownership of land under the land use rights of the cooperative and amending certain land laws is intended to build on this solid legal basis laid down in 2014 by means of legislation on the implementation of a kind of national estate arrangement by taking on the burden of repaying the debts of decades of agricultural and property policy towards Hungarian farmers. Our past, the pregnant legacy of our collectivized agriculture for decades to this day is a special legal formation based on the duality of land parcel without owner and land parcel, the struggle of which is best represented by the still unfinished land publishing process, which has lasted for more than two decades. The norm before this House proposes a swift and equitable closure of the process of land publishing, which seems to be almost endless, with the interests of those concerned far-reaching. This is done by eliminating land with an unownership status by acquiring ownership of land under the land use right of the cooperative and not yet privately owned, with the exception of ongoing cases named in the draft, by the State, in addition to the appropriate remuneration of the respective share owners, i.e. HUF 50 thousand per gold crown. With the proposal outlined, therefore, the overall share-ground expenditure process can be completed within a short period of time. The current regulatory environment cannot ensure this, the rules in force cannot guarantee the completion of the share-ground expenditure in the foreseeable future, and it also treats the rightful financial compensation for a significant number of elderly rights holders unfairly, as it would provide a total of HUF 4,000 per golden crown. The proposal therefore contains provisions on the settlement of land ownership and the termination of management rights under the land use rights of the cooperatives under the first chapter. In addition to what has been said, the proposal also amends 14 more laws, which, in addition to others, are accompanied by provisions aimed at simplifying land traffic regulations and making more efficient use of land belonging to the National Fund of Earth, and by proposals that have a positive impact on the activities of almost all the actors in the Hungarian agriculture, with a number of amendments leading to the removal of administrative obstacles that make life difficult for farmers. Please allow me to briefly outline the most important of these things for you. One of the most important elements of the amendment package is that the state plans to take significant steps to eliminate one of the most serious problems of the Hungarian agriculture, most adversely affecting landowners, the undivided common land ownership. One of the first elements of this is that the State intends to sell the undivided share of common ownership in the National Land Fund for the benefit of its owners. As most ownership shares are less than 10 hectares of space, the proposal aims to create the possibility of public but simplified sales of public land up to a maximum of 10 hectares instead of the current 3 hectares size limit. This could significantly and quickly reduce the share of undivided common land, with a total of more than 10,000 properties. With regard to the amendment of the Real Estate Register Act, I must highlight the legal settlement of long-term land use and free use, which in many cases leads to legal uncertainty. Although the land concerned was owned by the right holders by virtue of a previous legal provision, the legislation in force provides that ownership of the land may be registered only on the basis of an application. In the light of practical experience, the proposal provides for the ex officio procedure of the real estate authority with regard to the registration of this right of persons already acquired under the law. The proposal also settles the construction of buildings registered as forest, including the inclusion as separate property owned by the State-owned forestry company of bodies established by state forestry companies up to decades ago, but still unorganised. The possible sale of these properties will only be possible for the Hungarian State. The chapter of the Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry Act on professional management and guarding of forestry works is also renewed conceptually. The main purpose of the amendment is to ensure an adequate professional level of forest management and to limit the sector's activity to a legal framework. On the basis of the proposal, the entire forest protection penalty system will also be significantly changed, five plus two sets of sanctions will be introduced out of the previous nearly fifty forest-specific sanctions. [[10.50]] The forest law currently in force follows a strict regulatory principle that does not allow any consideration to be given in sanctioning infringements. At the same time, taking into account the regulatory concept of the sanctions law which has not entered into force but which has been published, it has become timely to introduce considerations of discretion which are uniform in choosing the application of the consequences, taking into account sectoral specificities. Some of the provisions for the more efficient use of land under the National Earth Fund should also be described. The property of the National Land Fund will be expanded by the land area excluded from cultivation defined by the Land Protection Act as a permanent plant house and registered as such in the Real Estate Register. In order to achieve the priority government objective of a significant increase in greenhouses, a significant simplification of the conditions for setting up in the regulation, while maintaining land welfare, will be possible while at the same time reducing costs. This will be of particular importance in the current economy, which will be reborn after the global economic crisis, as it will allow agricultural operators, farmers, to produce more quality Hungarian vegetables in a safe and independent way. It is also an important change that, in order to facilitate the implementation of the experience of the application of the law and the objectives set out in the programme of the Hungarian village, the municipal authorities will have more opportunities than currently to obtain the rights of use or ownership of state land. On the basis of the proposal, the long-term exploitation of any land owned by the State for agricultural purposes which has not yet been possible due to any legal or other problem would be possible. These are orchards, plantations, or state fish ponds. We will also lay the foundations for a public wooding and forestry programme of greater volume than the current one in areas declared redundant for defence purposes. The draft also lays down at a legal level that, in the case of contracts concluded after the entry into force of the Act, a fee of at least 2500 HUF/golden is to be paid for the right to use land covered by the National Land Fund on the basis of a lease agreement or an order agreement. Thus, the State is still able to grant permanent or temporary use of public land for a reduced fee compared to market rents, in exchange for special cultivation requirements in many cases. Last but not least, for a few sentences, I would like to address the changes to land traffic regulations. The amendment of the Land Traffic Act and the related implementing law is primarily justified by the abuse of law, feedback, as defined by the existing legislative environment, in particular by the continuous monitoring of the applicable judicial practice and the evaluation of the experience gained in this context. If I were to sum up the direction of the amendments in a sentence, I would say that the draft aims at simplifying procedures for land sale contracts, e.g. by publishing by electronic means, by making it a priority. In addition to simplification efforts, I need to mention the problem of maintenance and annuities contracts. Experience in the application of the law has shown that many individuals who otherwise have no trust with each other conclude annuities and maintenance contracts to circumvent the right to pre-emption, circumvent the rules on land traffic, and that it is therefore appropriate to limit contracts of this type from the side of the author. In addition, the proposal gives faith in the new forest-specific exploitation, use and contract types adapted to the situation of owners and farmers, and in their effective, low-risk regulation. In accordance with this objective, the draft shall re-regulate the items relating to the transfer of rights to use the land considered as forest, specifying its content. These items are the forestry lease agreement, the forestry integration contract and the forest management contract. To sum up, with the package of laws before this House, the government is declarively seeking to implement its idea of property policy to achieve significant progress in terms of the framework conditions that determine the competitiveness of farmers, by eliminating the disorderly ownership conditions hindering the development of Hungarian agriculture in many respects. At the same time, as I pointed out in detail, the proposal is much more than that, as the State is paying off its decades of debt by drawing up the legal provisions for the swift and equitable closure of the entire share of land expenditure process, as it is taking a significant step towards the elimination of undivided common land ownership. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the law, to discuss it, and to adopt the bill on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2020-04-07-48	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the lead speaker's round. But before we begin, as I have already indicated, I would like to inform you that the order of the speeches is as follows: István Horváth, Zoltán Magyar, László Varga, Ágnes Vadai, Krisztina Hohn, the ladies and gentlemen representing István Horváth, Olivio Kocsis-Cake. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member István Horváth. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/9932 on the settlement of land ownership of land under the land use rights of the cooperative before us and on the amendment of certain land laws. Bill No.1, as the Minister pointed out, is a kind of national estate arrangement which proposes to settle the ownership of land under the land use rights of the cooperative and to abolish management rights, as well as to amend laws that may represent a significant part of the Hungarian economic society during the working weekdays. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the bill, an old agricultural policy legacy from the time of the change of regime could begin to be abolished. This heavy agricultural heritage is nothing more than an institution of undivided common property. I certainly do not need to present to this House, honourable Members, the exact definition of undivided common property, but it is important to say that the undivided common property created in a large part of the agricultural land is essentially a community of owners, in which members who are not familiar with each other are entitled to use their ownership without violating the rights of the others and their legitimate interests in their ownership. This is a highly disadvantaged construction. The share of property is known to everyone, but specifically the size and location of the continent is not indicated. Undivided joint ownership cannot invest, cannot use the areas as collateral for bank credit. Its undivided common system does not fit EU legal standards and therefore it is not possible to obtain EU aid in this area. In my opinion, any measures that help to eliminate this situation need to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The draft before us eliminates land with an unoccupied ownership status. It is important to mention the level of financial compensation for the share-land expenditure that has been outstanding for more than 20 years. The State acquires ownership of the land under the land use right of the cooperative and has not yet been privately owned by the respective share owners with adequate remuneration of HUF 50 thousand/golden. [[11.00]] According to the current state, this compensation amount is HUF 4,000 per golden crown. This amount has been around 20 years, which is not even close to current market prices. A share owner who meets the terms of acquisition and has the land-use status of a producer cooperative on a continuous basis from at least 1 January 2008 may, within a period of one year, exercise a right to purchase the land which he uses. The draft also abolishes the right of operator, which has been only registered in real estate, but which has not existed in substantive legislation for nearly 20 years. The adoption of the bill also makes it possible to make more efficient use of the land covered by the National Fund of Earth. Minister, you mentioned in your expo the wooding and foresting programme, which could expand further in areas declared unnecessary for defence purposes. I would like to draw attention here to the protection of our environment. The expansion of the fading program will help meet climate targets and increase carbon capture capacity, which will make the air cleaner. The bill amends the current law on forest protection, forest protection and forestry in a number of places in order to enable the sector to operate in a more professional and legally transparent and consistent way. It is a welcome proposal that the amendment of the law in relation to the Hungarian village programme expands the free municipal ownership in addition to the titles currently in force. The municipality will have more opportunities than it currently has to access to the use or ownership of public land. Thus, it allows for free municipal ownership of land which has been unused for at least three years or have been used solely by a contract of assignment and the area does not exceed 5 hectares. I would like to draw attention to the provision that the assets of the National Land Fund would be extended by a permanent part of the land covered by the Land Protection Act, which is defined as a plant house and registered as such in the real estate register. This means that the number of greenhouses, the share of greenhouse crops may increase in the future, thus increasing the efficiency of our agriculture, its emissions and a significant number of new jobs in agriculture. A number of laws can also be amended by adopting the package of proposals, which clearly help to provide a more effective public service and are intended to promote useful and meaningful experience. Ladies and gentlemen, The main aim of the package of proposals is to eliminate undivided joint ownership and to close the share-grounding procedures. Thanks to these, we can settle decades of agricultural policy debt towards the farming community. I ask that, in the spirit of what has been said, you support the government's land policy arrangements, support the bill, its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Magyar, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Well, Minister, he has handled this bill very generously in the expozee, and he has indeed highlighted the parts that would be eligible, and István Horváth, my pro-government fellow, has gone almost as far as his keynote speaker, as if this law were about the complete abolition of Hungarian undivided common land, even though this law is not yet ahead of us, we are looking forward to it. Unfortunately, this is far from achieving what my fellow Member, who was at least pampered in the main speakership, has achieved. I am trying to address the parts that I think are of concern and which are not acceptable. Fourteen laws are amended by this package, so we can call it the salad law, which is usually of concern to the opposition, and now in particular because there are really parts in it, such as legislative adaptations and chapters that we can support, and which can actually reduce, let's say, bureaucracy, although they touch it very carefully, and from the point of view of Hungarian farmers, there will not be a significant breath of breath from the point of view of their daily lives. But in other respects, these amendments go too far, so it would have been better if we had been able to dissect this in a number of legislative amendments debates, and then we would have had the opportunity to consider our own decision on the basis of which law we can support and which one we cannot. Here, too, the beautiful words of the general justification are extremely generous in trying to scratch only the surface. I am not surprised that, by the way, the submission of this law has been postponed for the period of the coronal virus epidemic, since it has been a matter of some time, even years, that sooner or later we will have to deal with this problem, because let's face it, it is indeed a matter of problems, since decades of problems have to be solved in the parts of the land under the land use rights of the cooperative, and even those who are currently using these land are waiting for some sort of solution to this question. Most of them, at least to whom I was able to speak, I can say that they do not mind that if the state einstands this land and basically takes it into its own use. There are already more serious problems and reservations in terms of compensation. Allow me to bring here a written question from my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, because he is literally pushing this problem, because in his constituency, South Somogy, there is one of the most problematic focal points, where there is perhaps the largest of these areas in national terms. The former residual areas protected by nature protection, but not compensated for, affect around 2,000 hectares of land nationwide. The vast majority of these, as I said, are almost 1,700 acres, the Red Star Agricultural TS. its successor, Dráva-Coop, is in the land use of the agricultural cooperative and is owned by a cooperative. Twenty-five years ago, the Hungarian state laid hands on valuable land by marking the state as the only possible sale target, forbidding the sale of these land for Duna-Drava National Park, in Hungarian: the ban on disposal has been blocking these lands for a quarter of a century. This would not be a problem, since it is not the issue of public ownership, because it has been waiting for 25 years for the cooperative and its membership. The problem is the hijacking of a ridiculous value, which is basically what I called einstanding first. In our opinion, a normal expropriation at market value at a reasonable price should be carried out so that the amount due for the land can be allocated to the members or their heirs according to the original property. For this reason, my fellow Member submitted a proposal for an amendment to the 2020 budget and then to the previous budget, which envisaged this. However, Barcson lives on a humiliating pension of about a thousand families, we are talking about couples with small children, young people who have been crouched for further education are looking forward to receiving the equivalent of at least one million HUF per hectare, or approximately one and a half billion HUF for nearly 1700 hectares of land. As I said, this has been going on for a quarter of a century, but because of which I have chosen it, the shocking disproportionateness and amazing injustice is that if we put another Somogy County case next to this case, where a large owner who has been settled from abroad, who has been mentioned so many times here, within the walls of the House, was bought by the Hungarian State for 2.5 million forints per hectare in undivided common land ownership. So as long as Hungarian people are offered 50,000 forints per golden crown, you bought this land at his request for 2.5 million forints from this foreign major owner. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[11.10]] I could not compare accurate data because, despite the final court ruling, you have not yet published exactly how the Hungarian State treats these public land and how it acquired these undivided common land, but there is also a huge, screaming difference in comparison between golden crowns and hectars, as this means that the members of the cooperative concerned would be spotted by 100 to 150 thousand forints per hectare. So there's still a huge and screaming difference. Minister, that's the case, if you look at Somogy County. The story is absurd, too, because it is actually punishing those who are very metaphorical and we are also considering environmental aspects, whose territory is relevant to the Hungarian state in many respects, because conservation values are found in these areas in a greater proportion than in that part of the country, where these particular characteristics have ceased for many years, thanks to industrial agriculture. The law also contains other kinds of yelling injustices. I'm forced to go to the sample farms here. I recently had a parliamentary debate with Minister on this issue when I resented the fact that the few remaining public areas could be rented from the Hungarian State for a third of the market price. At the time, I called it an infidel treatment, and I was determined to take legal action in this regard. Now, either this is what they're trying to do in hindsight and legalize, or they're gonna want to give these people public land at a more brazen price than they already are. I don't know about that, but the fact is, they're supposed to have special cultivation procedures. The Minister mentioned this as a reason why these oligarchs deserve these lands for a fraction of the market price. I would very much like to know what this special cultivation process means for Lőrinc Mészáros, when we will expect him to do so, and in practice what that means, what kind of common good this will bring. [[Dr. István Nagy: There is no such economy!]] We're not seeing any of this right now, Minister. I understand that you refer to domain policy directives as an important benchmark for the state when it takes these decisions, but the problem is that for a decade now we have seen that these domain policy directives are completely different in reality and in what you have said, in communication. So, as long as they continue to talk about helping family farms at any agricultural event or here in Parliament, they will bring us a law that specifically, practically tailor-made, will affect up to four or five farms in Hungary in the present situation, who, by virtue of this law, will for a fraction of the market price in the future, or perhaps even cheaper to rent state land. In addition, they are also opening up the 50-year lease opportunity for which they have been absolutely rightfully criticising the governments that preceded you so many times. I can give examples almost every month when I had any critical talk about agriculture, then they came with examples that gave us such bad examples that, during socialist-liberal governments, the state rented the land for decades at ridiculous prices. And that was the case, and I criticized it, and I'm sorry they didn't reveal them in a larger number, and instead, they're legitimizing the whole thing, and they're continuing to do the same thing they did back then. What is also shocking in this area is the removal of property maxims. I have already received a significant discount for 1800 hectares of land use for those who produce seed or are in livestock production. Now this will be extended to unlimited, without cap, for sample farms. It also goes completely against the communication we hear every day. I would ask the Minister for a substantive answer to these questions when it was decided that, instead of family farms, these few, four or five, up to six, will now be pushed forward with preferential public land leases. There are also some changes to forests. It is above debate, Minister, that, in the case where 51 percent is missing, forest management problems continue to arise, and this must be resolved. The administration has also indicated these matters in terms of law enforcement, and we have had to do something here for a long time, and there is no problem with that, so perhaps this part is where we can support the proposal before us the most. However, I would like to put here a set of gossip or problems that is constantly appearing and is growing from the direction of state forestry, namely the fear that they want to turn their zrt. into one feather stroke, or they would eliminate these state forest economies at the same time, so that a kind of disguised privatisation would start in this respect. I would like you to be able to say reassuring words in this regard, because even before the outbreak and spread of the virus, these state forest farms have had serious problems, especially in terms of state pressure and expectations, and this will only increase now. At least, the right to hunt is slightly altered in respect of sample holdings. This must be interpreted as being able to carry on game farming in this area in practically their own way, even if, let's say, the local interest requires something quite different. Márton Örs Bitay has previously conducted this area here in Parliament as Secretary of State, and fortunately he has not been here since then, because there have been so many scandals with his name that I think it has been unpleasant for you, but there may be someone else behind it. In any case, I am very pleased personally that I do not have to discuss this matter with him here. It was memorable for Mr. Secretary of State to speak out in favour of a local initiative one week, and he gave me a very pompous distribution of what I thought I wanted to damage the state when I took the side of the local hunters, because they would have paid 100 HUF less hunting rent per hectare to the farmers, and thus to the Hungarian state, because it was also about Hungarian state land. Then the next week, when I brought an initiative here that some people had promised much more to give to landowners in the name of wildlife management, and then he said that it wasn't true that I was so unprofessional, that I wasn't looking at the wildlife management aspects, but that I was materialising here for the benefit of the state and the landowners. On the other hand, it seems that I will not be able to report such a complication at the sample farms, since they will decide everything in their own areas of use in this regard. I am also horrified to hear comments here about local governments. You're too late, Minister, for at least five or six years. They say such nice words that local governments will be able to gain free access to state land in the future. Well, this was supposed to be done before the privatisation. But they didn't give them land for free, they didn't give them land for money. We brought numerous local governments here, who wanted to start in public tenders for public purposes, for social reasons or for the development of the settlement, but in the first round, when the most greasy snacks, the best lands, the largest areas were sold, they didn't even talk to them. Then, in the second round, they were able to get to Minister Lazarus and, on a personal basis, the needs of one or two municipalities were met. But now, when the register is looted, there is no state land, or just a small amount of land we are talking about, it would be offered to the municipalities, I think that is a very perverse attitude. It's really five years too late. And what I am missing, Minister, is the Act on Plant Control, the Cooperative Act, the Law on Undivided Common Lands, and not just legislation on this sub-area, rethinking subsidies. Here, too, they began with great promises. We're all waiting for this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I will finish, thank you, Mr President, just one more thought. And if these lands are now brought to the state, we ask for guarantees that we will not be as in the previous cases when the state land is best placed. There is no guarantee of this either. So we can't support the bill in its present form. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. There you go. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2020-04-07-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In these weeks, when the whole country continues to fight the coronal virus, we have repeatedly thanked the health and social workers, the community transport workers in this House, so to those who work in the front line and are struggling to get the virus out of the country as soon as possible, and we thank them very much for their work, and I would also like to thank them, of course, but if we are already discussing an agricultural proposal, then I think it is appropriate to thank those who are doing their work for food production every day and every week. Thank you, fellow Members. I think that a lot of people are doing their job now to ensure that the country's food supply is undisturbed and that their work is valued by these weeks. It is worth rethinking their work, and at all times, the crisis also makes Hungarian public thinking about what food production means in Hungary, and it has to be said that this issue is the case of all of us, not only of a narrow professional elite, not only of those working in production, but also of all Hungarian citizens, because this country is able to produce at least twice as much food as the country's population; this country, if it is well organised by the country's management of food supply, land management, is able to deliver performance on this front that can provide the Hungarian population with adequate, high-quality and affordable food. Now let me put it on the table right now that this is also a problem in these weeks, not in relation to the stakeholders working here, but as a rural representative, I have to say that the price of several basic foods has increased significantly over the past period, and we have also proposed the introduction of an official price for a number of basic foods in this respect and this consideration. I believe that this can be a very important issue for the poverty-intensive populations living in the countryside, which are experiencing significant difficulties during these weeks. It is also important, and this is a long-term question, that the countryside should be able to sustain properly, not only for small business elites to live out of the Hungarian soil, but, as you say, family farms, small businesses, hundreds of thousands of people working with land in the countryside. I think that if we look at the ten years, the activities you have been doing in this respect over the past ten years, then most of the decisions made in this regard leave much to be desired; indeed, many times they only support family economies by name, and the beneficiaries of concrete decisions are very often large entrepreneurs, local landlords, small kings. As has been said before by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, this is a salad law, which amends and regulates a wide range of areas of agriculture, and, in fact, on the basis of what has been said or expoze, I feel that his primary goal in your rhetoric is obviously to close the 20-year-old open share-ground spending procedures. In the press, too, there has been a wide variety of criticisms in this respect, and overall, in consultation with several stakeholders and some of the profession, I can say that there may be less criticism here. My fellow Member has just said that he has reservations about the measure of HUF 50,000/golden, and I suggest that what Zoltán Magyar said should be considered in substance, but to be fair: there were plenty of people who thought this was an adequate compensation. The proposal also settles the fate of the superstructures and other questions. Obviously, let us look at how this will work in practice, if there is still a need to amend the proposal, then it needs to be amended, but this part will, overall, lead to fewer debates in my view. However, what contradicts all their previous ideas, support for family farms and everything else is the proposal on the table for model farms. This proposal does not support bottom-up integration in this form in any way, so it does not support what has been achieved in Denmark, in several Western European countries, that producers have joined forces, they have implemented an integration process that has obviously made the economy more competitive, thus making the type of food production that Hungary needs again more justified in an economic sense; no, it is really about clearly highlighting and supporting three or four major players, and it actually sets the legal background on them. There is no justification for this, and there is no justification for any further increase in the maximums of land, nor for this amazing 50-year period in the land use contract. We will present a number of amendments here with my fellow Members. In my view, this strengthens the position of small country kings, strengthens the position of the oligarchs, in no way strengthens the resilience of the countryside; in fact, the small players, the day laborers of the countryside, can again be put at a competitive disadvantage in this respect during food production. You do not want to do this; if you want to do so, then I think it is also worth amending the agricultural policy principles announced in the Land Traffic Act, then you have to accept it, put it on the table, negotiate it in Parliament, then you really have to come up with the buttocks. I think that this was brought in here in the shadow of the coronal virus situation, too, because it may get less attention from the population of the country, from the people involved, and they believe that they can push this through Parliament. No, I ask you to consider the amendments tabled. Last year, the concept of a neighbor who lived in the area was amended, which was a justified amendment from the point of view of landscaping, in fact it was lifelike; it may be contrary to your intentions, but it was a lifelike amendment of that kind. They would now change this again, and they would return to the former state, which, in view of the aspects of the landscaping, is of concern, so it narrows down the possibility. I will also present an amendment in this respect, which I do not think is justified. In previous years, even my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös has repeatedly drawn attention to the maladministration in relation to livestock farms. I am from Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, let me tell you that you have been to our county several times, and we have experienced maladministration in southern Borsod in particular, which has actually destroyed the masses of families and livestock owners. In this connection, I will also submit an amendment, which would settle, supplement this type of salad law, if there is already the possibility of rethinking some things in connection with such a complex law. I would recommend the addition of the following section: in the case of the sale of land registered in the tilling branch of the arable land, meadow, pasture, grassland or wooded area, the farmer who has been operating a livestock establishment for at least three years prior to the exercise of his pre-emptive right in the municipality where the land is situated and whose acquisition is intended to ensure the production of feed necessary for the production of livestock. This section should be governed by the Land Traffic Act 18. § 2 shall be replaced. I do not consider the amendment for long, obviously there are many technical details in it, one message is important: that there is sufficient pasture, meadow, lawn, plougher available to those who have been carrying out their animal farming activities in the countryside for many years. Let us rule out the possibility of abuse that has occurred several times in South Borsod, for example. Great respect for the art nail profession [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It was also said here that there was one in agriculture who gained the land needed for its operation near a livestock farm without having previously carried out any animal farming activity. [[11.30]] This type of abuse should be excluded, which should be addressed in the context of a legislative amendment. May the earth have the capacity to sustain in the countryside, especially for those who have been day laborers of the earth for decades. I would like to propose that one more thing be resolved, and, besides many other amendments, I am approaching the end of my time, that the decision of the local land committees here cannot be changed by the courts on the issue of the approval of sales contracts. This has been the case since January 2019. I think it's been more than a year for both the profession and the stakeholders to see that this provision has been tested. Although you do not specifically mention this right now, I suggest that you address this issue. A number of cases have come to our attention in which, in fact, I am talking about the decision of AB, which was taken by the Constitutional Court in 3224/2019, which was based on the assumption that it did not consider the abolition of reformatory powers to be against the law because the decision of the Land Committees cannot be the same again. That's what I assumed the Constitutional Court would do. However, the practice shows that it can be the same several times. Obviously, it can't be in anyone's best interest. We also tabled an amendment in this respect. Consider it, consider it. Practice shows that this section, this area is worth and needs to be modified. Moreover, there is no reason to wait 60 days for the NFK to make a statement instead of the previous 30 days. I think that this is also unnecessarily long in the proposal, and it continues to unduly increase the procedure for earth's traffic. To sum up, I can say to you, after my time, that the directions in this salad law, which are about to strengthen the country's capacity to sustain, will be more stable, the country's food supply will be more stable, the country's small aids will find prosperity in the countryside, and they will not have to migrate to larger cities, Western Hungary or abroad, any such proposals that support this will be supported later. At the same time, this salad law contains proposals, in particular in relation to sample farms, which cannot be well supported by those who take these values into account and consider them to be important. And we consider it important for the Hungarian people to be able to live in the countryside. We therefore ask you to consider the amendments tabled and to accept them as far as possible. A consensus can be reached in the event of their inclusion, but without this proposal in this form, no matter how far it contains forward-looking elements, it cannot be supported. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-07-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-07-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very disappointed, I must say. When the bill was submitted, I thought that agricultural legislation would follow, and obviously, besides serving the oligarchs, there will be a substantial part in it that will help Hungarian farmers in a difficult situation due to the coronal virus epidemic. I thought there would be a part of it, a bill that concerns Hungarian aquaculture, or the decorative planters in these cases I have also submitted a written question, or is dealing with the matter of the Samócs. The season starts on April 20th. We know very well that there is overproduction in Europe and there is a shortage of labour in Hungary. These problems must be dealt with in some way. It is a great disappointment that, compared to this, such a wide-ranging salad law has been tabled, often asking questions that I think it would not have been the time. The second disappointment came when the minister told me his expose. I have come to know the Minister as a fair professional who has always tried to answer the questions of his representatives correctly, and thank you very much for that. Mr. Secretary of State, who is also sitting in this room, has repeatedly mentioned that I am asking a lot of questions. I think a lot of questions never hurt. If there's no answer, it's bad. But I must say, Minister, for a moment when you finished your exposé, I had to watch T/9932. Law No. 1 because I thought I read the wrong law. The Minister spoke of topics in his exposé that were indeed in small details in the bill, but that was not the main guiding principle of the entire bill. Allow me to make it clear to you that the Democratic Coalition will not and cannot support this bill in this form. First of all, it's 1. §, which, among other things, eliminates the ownership of national parks and is included in the NFA, if we interpret it correctly, who knows where. Obviously, there has been a debate about this already under Article 4 of the Law. §2 of the Act, which defines the amount of expropriation. In this, I think we, opposition representatives and pro-government representatives, are thinking very differently. We may not be right about everything, but perhaps the truth is somewhere between the two, because 50 thousand forints per golden crown as compensation, I think, is not enough. And finally, that's 54. §2 of this salad law states that a lease contract may be concluded without public tender for several categories of land. I would like to say to you that what the government has ordered in recent years without public tendering, we have seen, to be more precise, that we have not seen the result. Therefore, we do not want to support this kind of attitude in any way. However, there are also some other areas on which the Minister spoke less, and my fellow Members have already spoken about it. First of all, it's a matter of model farms. As far as I know, but Minister will correct me, it is 1910/2015. a government decision provides for the establishment of sample holdings. This is very clear about the conditions under which an economy can be a model economy, and, frankly, the government decision shows that it is very worthwhile to be included in this narrow elite circle, because that is why there are various benefits, such as tenders. It didn't take long to wait, in 2016, the first government decision was issued, which, in addition to three state-owned farms operating as central budgetary bodies, we know Dalmando and Bóly, who are behind them, and the last such government decision that I met was the Sad Bioeconomy that was designated as a model farm. I haven't found such a government decision since then, because I don't. [[On Dr. István Nagy's signal:]] Minister confirmed, thank you very much. Now, if we look at the salad law, there's a part of the proposal that's 45. According to Section 2 of the Act on the National Fund of Earth, the concept of model economy is added, if I have understood this correctly, because it was very often difficult to interpret the bill itself. However, in our understanding, these requirements are not the same as those described in the original Government Decision. It is worth talking about this difference in terms of why the two lists are not the same. And then there are two very interesting paragraphs. One is that the term of the lease contract with a tenant who is a model economy may be extended for a maximum of 50 years. I'd like to know why for 50 years. Because they're so happy to give the fields to the model farms and to certain circles, why not a hundred years or a thousand years or a hundred thousand years? What is the reason for this? [[Sándor Font's intervention.]] In addition, there is a paragraph in this proposal which makes it almost impossible to terminate these contracts. I'd like to know why. The second is that the maximum amount of land does not include the size of the land owned by the State that the holder of the contract uses as an agent or as a sample farm. We keep hearing there's a property max. Compared to this, all kinds of exceptions appear in the law, because they currently allow sample farms to do so. I'd like to know who's doing the right thing. Whose interest is it that this proposal should be included in this salad law in particular? By the way, the Minister spoke in his speech before the agenda about supporting family economies. I would like to say, Minister, with all due respect, that this is not in favour of family economies, because a significant part of the bill is not in favour of them, but rather of large, certain circles: it is in the interests and interests of certain circles, and this is also very far from national property policy interests and national ownership policy principles. [[11.40]] If we withdraw to another paragraph of the proposal, paragraph 17. According to this paragraph, which amends the Law on Wildlife Protection and Wildlife Management and Hunting, the plant planning period can be established in the decision establishing its special purpose only for the duration of the land use contract concluded by the sample farm with the State, i.e. it may be 50 years, but at the same time the game management schedule is made for 20 years under the law. I'd like to ask you again, if this is because of the State Farm or one of your buddies who put you in this bill, who's gonna make it happen. These need to be clarified, because I believe that this Parliament does not have the task of helping buddies; its task is, as the Minister said, to serve the nation. We haven't always experienced this before, but maybe this will change. I would like to add one more thing, since this is about the crisis, the epidemic: it is very, very important that we clarify the relations, the criteria for the model economy, that the government decision or the amendment in this will now be true, but it would certainly be important that the model economy be the one that is also a vital agricultural component. I would consider that very important. Therefore, a vital agricultural component can also be a unit which is not a sample farm, but a model farm. And I'm just saying, most importantly, in the event of an emergency, that's where the first liaisons are sent. Because if we look at it, when the Hungarian government announced the emergency situation, then for some reason they decided to try to settle this matter with the army, but we will discuss this once in connection with another law, whether it is the right attitude or not, they sent people out there, and we saw the first list, and there was a company in it, and many people spoke about it here in Parliament, which I would not say was the most decisive agricultural company, and that was a problem, I agree. Then newer and newer companies appeared, but I think that in any emergency, it is of paramount importance that food supplies are provided; for example, this would be a very good opportunity to make it clear that such a requirement for the model economy must also be met. Let me also say a few words about free public land. One or two comments have already been made with regard to municipalities. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Pursuant to Section 22/A of the National Fund of Earth, a law would be added. § 4a, under which a plot of land belonging to the National Fund of Land may be given free ownership or free management of property in order to facilitate the performance of educational or social tasks by an established church or its internal church legal entity. Dear House, In recent weeks, we have not dealt with any other law other than a free allowance to the church; we have not read of any other news than the allocation of billion-dollar fiscal taxpayers' money to churches. I do not really understand why churches should give land free of charge when they have the opportunity to get land today, and I think that the Hungarian state has given enough property to different churches; we decided just last week, that is, you have decided that the Pázmány Péter Catholic University will receive it. In this connection, I would like to say to you that it is natural for you to have, there is reason and reason, when it is reasonable to give state land, but the time for tithes and tubs is over. And I would like to say to you that I would be delighted now that if you were to be taken from the municipalities, if you were to be taken from the parties, you would also ask the churches that have been the winners of your policy over the last few years to do something to protect you from the epidemic. There are churches that do charity activities that, by the way, do not support or help them by breaking the law, but there are churches that boast that the government has asked them to speed up investments and receive billions of forints of taxpayers' money, while today thousands of Hungarians and we do not say that, the government is saying that they lose their jobs every day. I would like to ask you to finish or end this at least partially, this paragraph can be taken out calmly, not the most embarrassing thing today, I think, in Hungarian agriculture. We've already discussed the maximum issue of land grabbing. They keep saying that certain dimensions can be obtained according to the category of one person: 1 hectare or 200 hectares or any number of hectares. Compared to this, we see new and new relaxations in the bill each time, and I do not really understand the purpose of this. So you either have to say this is the maximum, and then you can say this much, or you have to say that there is no such maximum. But the decision to maximize the land estate and then to override it with their own laws is quite amazing. Allow me to draw your attention here to 88. Article 5a, which states that if the inheritance of land by endowment has taken place and the heir is not a farmer, the agricultural administration shall refuse to approve the acquisition of property for the benefit of the heir. I simply don't understand: if we relax in everything, why can't it be said in this case that they give the heir a transitional period to get an adequate degree? I'm sorry, but if we're going through the country, I don't think there's a country in the European Union, but maybe there's no one on earth with so many goldfish lawyers and lawyers, because when they wanted to get land, they went to get this qualification. This is quite outrageous, and frankly, I think that the agrarians or the agrarians and the income creators, not to mention that I really picture Lőrinc Mészáros or Beatrix Mészáros on John Deere as a gold-digger farmer. That's pretty amazing. Meanwhile, those who inherit in the family will automatically be deprived of this option. I would add that, at today's market price, obviously, depending on where the land is, these land are worth much more than you intend to give as an expropriation. It should also be said, and the Minister mentioned this in his expozee, that, in the case of investors carrying out a permanent plant house, areas that have become redundant for defence purposes are not quasi-indemnity or cost accounting as is generally the case, because the NFA Act 16/A. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 says that the NFK will bear the costs and then, in our understanding, pass this on to the contracting party. But a paragraph 3a is added here, which says that where there is a permanent plant house, the plant house investor is the one who gets the work done, and then the cost of the work done can be reduced by the amount of the remuneration for the real estate use. I hope I got that right, so that's the difference. The NFK does this job at a certain amount, and obviously we assume that at least there they're not trying to cheat, they're counting on that. But how much does an investor who makes a permanent plant house do this for, who's gonna check it out? Who's gonna check that out? ! And what if he gets it done for five times as much as anyone else? By the way, I would also like to be interested in whose interest it is in this case, because I understand, Minister, that it certainly does not serve such large-scale national estate policy investors that implement a national permanent plant house. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So this law cannot be supported in this form, and I sincerely hope that they will pay more attention to the problems that I raised at the beginning of my speech. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Krisztina Hohn. There you go. You have the floor. [[11.50]]
u2020-04-07-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We are living in difficult and critical times, and Hungary and the whole world are facing unprecedented threats from the coronal virus epidemic. The virus is not only putting people's health and life at risk, but also the world economy into a crisis that we have seen for a long time. In Hungary, health, social workers, educators, people working in food production, processing and trade, and many others struggle heroically every day. The municipalities are also trying to deal with the problems with all their resources. Meanwhile, thousands of people lose their livelihood every day. And I can't miss thanking everyone for their work. But in the meantime, what is the government up to, and what does the Deputy Prime Minister propose? In short, it looks like another giant dirt dog again, and that's not a small word after the last ten years. Therefore, the LMP Group will not support this and even propose that the bill be withdrawn and revised. The Law on Land Salad, which is submitted, does not address the problems ahead of us, but rather concerns the service of the beneficial interests of the vassals. In particular, in times of emergency, substantial crisis measures would be needed. Hiding behind false titles, the government is about to do the most shocking thing ever. The 91 - page land salad law contains a number of unacceptable amendments to the law, the largest and most shocking of which is the scheming of fief estates in the name of the model economy, and the granting of unheard of discounts to the fiefs. The law would allow the fief estates designated by the Minister of Agriculture to have access to additional land on a reduced basis, to the maximum size of the upper estate required by the law, and to the reduced state land use for 50 years instead of the 20 years maximized by the law. These are unacceptable measures, which is why we are proposing that this bill be withdrawn and revised. A truly well-earned sample fief can't be without complete hunting castles. Of course, they don't forget the hunters. The amendment of the law ensures that the vassals, according to special rules, also practice hunting on their own property. But for a truly high-quality hunt in the heart of the forest, we also need hunting castles hidden from curious eyes, forest hunting houses, which is also provided by the author. It therefore proposes to amend the forest law so that land directly serving non-forestry purposes and buildings previously built on it can be used as land not included in a separate agricultural repository. This, of course, opens the way for these properties to be played out of the non-trafficable national forest assets, surely for the right people. We can see that the government takes care of everything, everything that's in the pocket of the new aristocracy. The hunting castle is next to the county farmland, and I'm sure a lot of people will be grateful for this amendment of the law. The creation of a new aristocracy also involves creating an opportunity for marriage and inheritance to move freely over the size of the estate governed by the law. This opens the way for a number of well-managed marriages of interest, as well as clever domestic land distributions, to develop new county-sized counties over a generation. We would also like an explanation of the purpose of providing free land to churches. Does this mean that, in their current economic, production and cultural systems, ecclesiastical lands can again play a role? My fellow Members, these amendments are steps towards the restoration of the feudal system, to which we cannot contribute. We won't let the dirt dog, let's not let the little kings, Counts, vassals, bring back the world. What's next? Under the cover of an emergency, is it the bonding of the masses that are poor during the economic crisis or even the restoration of the serf system, for example, in the name of community service? We see how it serves the interests of the new aristocracy, but what is the plan for the masses who have lost their jobs? We demand that the bill be withdrawn, we call on the pro-government representatives to vote with their conscience to stop the building of the feudal system, the world of feudal lords. In addition to the problems mentioned above, there are further concerns that we cannot support. According to the law, the land on which the land register indicates that the land use rights of the cooperative are registered will be transferred to state property and to the National Land Fund as of 1 January 2021. However, the law also mentions that persons who have a share at a time determined by law may be entitled to compensation, which must be submitted to them in these cases. In our view, it would be good to have an ex officio, for many may not even know that they have such common land. I would also like to highlight one important point: this is 66. Article 2 of the Act concerns the amendment of Section 2 of the Act on the basis of which a contract of sale for 10 hectares of land may be concluded without any public tender or auction. Thus, an amendment to the law is being tabled that actually serves the purpose of giving people close to the government access to the earth. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I will try to be brief, not to repeat the opposition fellow Members, because I have agreed on everything with the speakers before me. In the first round, I would also like to express my disapproval, because there was a seven-party group settlement, where the promise from Fidesz was that there would be no legislative tsunami during the epidemic, so Parliament will not discuss issues that are not necessarily necessary, urgent during this period. Especially the kind that we're discussing right now, which should give him much more publicity, and it might be worth opening up a social debate about, because these are important things. We should rather argue about what will happen to the replacement wage, although at least we have heard numbers, unemployment aid, family allowance, crisis management, basic income, but if the land and agriculture are spoken about, then what will happen to farmers who are now supplying the country with great sacrifices. So that's what we should be talking about, but instead, I like this amendment. What is this bill about? There are 14 amendments. There are indeed bureaucratic elements in it that we could support if only these were in it. But unfortunately, these aren't the ones, and from Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's exposé, it seems... [[Dr. István Nagy: Don't be silly. How do you know?]] What? [[Dr. István Nagy: I am not!]] Sorry, I got the wrong idea. Mr. Secretary's expo... But there was, wasn't there? [[Dr. István Nagy: No.]] Anyway, I've appointed him. So it seems from Minister's exposé that this is all about, but let me at least name the critical elements here as opposition representatives. Most of this law is about how to have more land for fidesz big owners and project it... [[In response to an intervention:]] I'm gonna point right at him! How these lands will end up in the hands of these oligarchs. The main question is what will happen to these lands? I have often dealt with Balaton, Lake Fertő in Parliament over the past few years, most recently in relation to Tiszakórod, when these oligarchs began to work in a nature conservation area with various investments, investments and developments, and the lesson is that these people, when it comes to profits, do not see the environment and environmental areas as valuable at all. Unfortunately, this proposal in many cases gives us the opportunity to manage nature reserves. Mr. Minister has repeatedly argued that the land is given to us by our grandchildren, and we just need to take care of it. I don't know how that's compatible. As a Green Party, these are the points which we are very concerned about from these proposals. On the basis of the bill, the right to manage cooperatives, national parks and former state farms would be abolished and would be transferred to the National Land Fund. What's the point? What we see is that this is also a personalized legislation. I wouldn't be surprised if some oligarchs had a piece of this bill on their machines, as has been the case before, for example, in connection with the Traffic Law. Under favourable conditions, these people would have access to new lands, and they would be able to go beyond the protection required by the land law. It is not clear how this law helps many of the family economies you have said. What will be the consequences of this law? National parks are losing a great deal of their rights so far, and we are concerned about this as a green party. The protection guarantees in nature conservation areas are also reduced. For example, in the case of the liquidation of undivided common property, the land released may be released into a protected area. That was forbidden until now, just to set an example for my fellow Member. [[12.00]] From now on, the lease may take place without a public tender, for example, in the case of fish ponds, provided that there is less than 50 per cent of the state ownership of the land. I wonder what specific case this proposal was made for. The horse's foot's a little out here. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The sale of protected land will be easier for those whose holdings are bordering on the protected land. It is also worth examining who we are talking about, what we are talking about, and this seems to be a very specific matter. It is worth thinking about the tiszakóród mine building I recently mentioned, where Lőrinc Mészáros acquired land next to a nature reserve. They open up here for the gates. A lot of people have talked about property maximization. Here it becomes possible to expand your estate with the money received for expropriation, if you buy the land of the landowner from an undivided common, if the community of conjugal property is terminated, and if one spouse takes over the ownership of the other or exchange or inheritance in the acquisition of land. So, in these cases, the property max will all be exceeded. The additional possibility to maximize the estate is to qualify as a sample farm. I wonder who will be classified as a model farm here in the near future. We also have serious concerns about this. Obviously, for an outsider, it is unclear why these lands should be taken from yet functioning organizations, not to mention national parks, and why this should be stored at the national land manager. The Minister has not spoken about this, so we would like to hear the explanation on this point. According to the real purpose of the current law, according to the real estate register, there are 21,000 hectares of land in the land use law of the cooperatives, more than half of which are protected by 13 300 hectares of nature conservation. So that's what we're talking about. In this regard, we are concerned about what will happen to these 13 300 hectares, which are protected by nature protection. That's what we see as the biggest problem. If we were to receive a reassuring answer and the suggestions I have raised here, we would consider supporting this bill. By the way, it is not clear how much land there is in the problem of undivided common property you have raised, so how much land we are talking about, which is why this amendment is now. If the Minister could clarify that, we'd like to thank you. So the Dialogue, as a left-wing green party, cannot support this proposal until these guarantees are included in the law on the nature conservation area. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-60	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There will now be further speeches. Adam Steinmetz will be the next speaker. Sándor Font, István Apáti and Dániel Z. Kárpát will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz.
u2020-04-07-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Parliament and my Honourable Minister! The T/9932 in front of us. Law-modifying proposal No. 1 indeed amends a number of land laws, very extensive. Allow me, as a water polo player, I was always used to talking about bad things in general, because good things are almost natural. In this bill, too, since we see legislation trying to adapt to the changing rules of life, legislation to adapt and amend previous rules, and that is good, and I think it is absolutely right, and I do not dispute the well-meaning proposals and amendments here, but allow me to make one or two comments and suggestions on these issues this time. I'd go in line, try to take the platoons. It's almost 49. I'd like to start with an article. Members who have spoken before me have already partially addressed the issue of model farms. Here, basically, I see two things as worrying. One is this incredibly long, two lifetimes of 50 years. Let us recall how much you had attacked József Antall's decision at the time that he was able to rent for 99 years, and a group of foreign entrepreneurs in the Oradea with a huge area of thousands of hectares, the area of the former state economy; and now we see that this 50 years, slightly more than half of it, is no problem in this case. In 50 years, a lot of things can change, a lot of water flows down the Danube, so I'd suggest that we review it anyway. I'd suggest a much shorter deadline. And the other is the size of the estate. We also see that, for example, President István Jakab, when we go to international meetings together, he is always proud of the fact that in Hungary, under the Fidesz government, the size of the estate has been maximized to 1,200 hectares for seed producers and keepers. Now we see that this is not a small area, from which, I think, there is plenty to live on in Hungary today with a professional farming, and it is possible to give a lot of people a job, in fact, if someone meets the requirements of becoming a model economy, this size is the limit of the starry sky, no matter how much it can be pushed out. And then again, I would like to point out in time that the Fidesz government, by the way, was quite rightly criticizing the period of socialist governments who favored large owners instead of small local family farms. I think this step, and it's in black and white in the bill, doesn't represent the interests of local small farms, so how do I put it here? I think it tastes bad because they've been communicating before, and now they're doing something else. But let's move on to 54. § 3 where a lease contract for forests could be concluded without a tender. Here we can talk about tens or hundreds of hectares of state-owned forest, so I think that a reasonable limit could be set here, even in a five-hat limit, because it represents a very significant asset value, and I think it doesn't matter to the State how much and under what conditions it does these areas, if it already sells them. I think that I am making constructive criticism, but allow me, Minister, to highlight a proposal that is very dear to me: this is the 56th amendment. In Section 5 of the Act, the municipalities are able to obtain land. Jobbik has also stressed this on several occasions, and we even had one element in the 2018 campaign to ensure self-sufficiency of local authorities by providing them with land of their own, so that they can achieve both job creation and self-sufficiency and social goals. So that's a very good suggestion. I would like to ask that, when the land policy principles are defined, any municipality with land on the outskirts should be able to obtain such land, as far as possible. [[12.10]] Obviously, even where the Hungarian State does not own such an area at the moment, when, as a result of the merger exchange or other sales, I hope that the Land Management Centre will take this into account, because this is a very good proposal, and it should actually be possible for the local government of all the localities of the country with land on the outskirts to be able to do so in the future. I'm moving on. That's 58. In connection with the article, my opposition colleague Kocsis-Cake Olivio, who is before me, also highlighted the case of protected natural areas under state-owned cultivation. I do not really understand why this is necessary, because if we read carefully the justification of this bill, then it is stated that keeping these areas state-owned is contrary to rational management. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We are talking about areas excluded from cultivation, so they are probably not doing this agricultural production right now. I don't know how they're gonna bring this here. That's one of the problems. And the other is that while it is described that the new owner must ensure that the protection level of the property is maintained, I ask: what if this is not fulfilled? So will the contract be like a right to buy back for the State, or a control that can review this later, that these principles will be implemented, or, where appropriate, a assembly plant may be built in these protected natural areas excluded from cultivation? So I would suggest that, if they are to be sold, they should be reclaimed, dissolved, or removed from the protected natural area, and then sold without further delay; if they insist, I would add. Art. 61. I would also refer to §2 for a sentence, for the use of revenue from the sale of land by the State. I agree with most of the list, not with its last point, which is that it can also be used to reduce public debt. We know very well that land around 200,000 hectares previously sold has been largely turned into this, and my colleague Zoltán Magyar and I have repeatedly said that this is not good at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture that this money belongs to agriculture. This is where I take the opportunity to encourage the Minister to engage in this struggle with the Minister of Finance, and not to allow these funds to flow out of the system, especially in the agriculture system, as a way of repaying public debt. I trust you will win this battle this time, and you will fight this battle, hopefully. Here, I would like to bring the question of neta, in which there is also a case concerning the fights, the Hungarian Hungaricum, the neta tax imposed on the pálinka. So in this, too, Minister, be tough. I would like to continue with the idea of 80. Article 2 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), It is well defined that a natural person can own 300 hectares of agricultural land in Hungary. It's an objective criterion. Now there's a system, a land official who can throw it out under two buttons to see how much land they have in their name. And now this clearly visible, thought-out, transparent and verifiable regulation is practically diluted by the exchange of land before May 2014 and the purchase of undivided common areas... [[To the intervention of Car Cake Olivio:]] My fellow Member, this may be any amount, if you think about it, because instead of a good, 30-40 golden crown plower, you can replace 10 hectares of weak, 5-10 golden crown pastures. So this land could be a very large area. It is also the basis for the exchange, but not only for the exchange, but also for the undivided common-owned land, as we can see that this affects 2 million hectares in Hungary today. So you can fish nicely here, too. I'm asking you to consider this, let's stay at 300 acres. I understand the intention, but I think that either we should stay at 300 hectares or we should be assured that in the future we will have an IT background to monitor these acquisitions. The churches. Now, I'm gonna step back a little bit. I'm sorry about 57. Section 3. The fact that the Church of the Faith, the Seventh Day Adventist Church or the Hungarian Islamic Community bring them here for example only gives them fields for educational and social tasks is a nice thought, but what if they are not used for this? So in this law, I do not see control, the control of this in the future. I would not perhaps like to have faith centers in these areas, since these lands are used for farming. So I think we need to think about this more, or we need to regulate it more. I'm moving on to 84. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following I very much welcome this, which deals with the issue of land harvesting. I would like to make a comment here. I bring to this House the wishes or requests of fellow hosts. The process of land sales, we'd very much like you to speed up. At the moment in Somogy, the general practice of obtaining official approval is 4-6 months from the date of signature of the sales contract, but in the county of Pest, it is also necessary to wait for a year and a half. So once again, a year and a half for approval. My fellow Members, with regard to an orchard, this is a rather long time, which is an uncertain state, considering the incisions or spraying and other agro-technical operations, who will be responsible for this: the former owner or the new owner? So I ask you, Minister, to take action on this matter. 88. Mr Vadai also mentioned this. It would certainly be good for the will heirs not to have an automatic einstall for the state, but to put in a transitional period, given that in many cases this heir does not even know that they will inherit, I would add, an opportunity to obtain a paper so that he can produce a goldfish certificate. I think that would be fair. And, Minister, it does not belong to this bill, but two comments. We are very much looking forward to the package that has been promised for two years to end undivided common land ownership. [[Dr. István Nagy: He's coming!]] We also had a proposal for a resolution, specifically for me, in order to speed this up, set a deadline, so to speak, to support the Parliament. The majority of Fidesz voted down on the Committee on Agriculture under the leadership of President Sándor Font. Last question, Mr. President, sorry. Last time, Minister, you resented a lot of questions being asked here in this House, but no opposition question is coming about the fact that there is a food reserve in the country now in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. We know that Hungary can feed 20 million people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But what if the import gets stuck? Is there enough food reserves in Hungary? Thank you very much for your patience.
u2020-04-07-62	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor. He will be followed by István Apáti and Daniel Z. Carpathian.
u2020-04-07-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Let's get a few questions straight. Now, with regard to the Crown Virus, the opposition, I see, is completely confused. Once he misses why Parliament won't work, if the government is given extraordinary authority about the Crown Virus, then when he sees how Parliament works, he asks why we are introducing professional laws at such a time of distress. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: If there is a well-prepared minister, please don't spoil the quality. Interventions in opposition benches.]] [[12.20]] If someone had listened to Minister István Nagy's speech in January, during a press conference, the Ministry's planned legislative intention and read it through a number of media that said it, it would have been clear that there is much more in the Minister's mind than that which laws he would like to introduce, and I am afraid that a few more will come in. So, just because the government is doing what I think is right for the Crown Virus, Parliament still has to make the necessary legislation. Anyone who looked at today's and tomorrow's professional presentations could see that we were doing our job, by the way. I just don't understand why you had to marvel at this and give me such a loud voice that in the shadow of the coronal virus, the Ministry is now making these laws in a depraved, covert way, just to make sure that now you can fire some of the things that would normally not be possible. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Thank you very much.]] There is no such thing, no point in which the opposition's accusations in this regard stand. By the way, I note that the most important part of this bill that has been tabled is by far not what my fellow opposition Members have been talking about here, and I will mention this in particular, but it is the issue of unsuited, unpublished ownership of the owners for nearly 30 years now. Anyone with a little agricultural experience knows exactly what the weight of this means. I note that since 2018, in the current parliamentary term, I am chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, the MSZP, DK and the Dialogue have not even delegated members, so there is no representative, a Member of the Parliamentary Committee, a representative of MSZP, DK and Dialogue; there is currently a representative of Jobbik, LMP and independents. After that, it is no wonder that the speakers here, I refer here to MSZP, DK and Dialogue, are expressing ideas from air that have little to do with the reality of practice, since they have nothing to do with the everyday life of Hungarian agriculture, and therefore all of them have launched political attacks on this bill. Returning to the pace of compensation for the shareholders, let us at least help the stakeholders to tell them briefly what will happen to them if this law enters into force; and we believe that this will happen. On 1 January 2021, who owns an unpublished share and who will be able to prove it, he or she may initiate the real estate authority to pay the remuneration in accordance with the law. I would like to add and stress that you need to take the initiative, so the procedure will not automatically start, and as I have said, this will be read in the legislation, and you will have to do so with the real estate authority. The applicant may, by the way, be the personal subject, but also the successor, if, of course, it has been passed through various postmortem procedures. The real estate authority will decide on eligibility for compensation, that the person concerned is indeed entitled to the amount of compensation, and, of course, it will have other tasks to cancel his share on the separate sheet of the action, and, of course, after that, the compensation will be paid, in accordance with the real estate authority procedure. I wanted to say this to all those who will really be affected by the controversial and I hope it is adopted law, and why those who have failed to settle this for 30 years now think that they can resolve it in this way. Let me mention a very small section you may know that I am particularly fond of the issue of grapes, wine and pálinka, and I am also the chair of that subcommittee to finally clarify and settle in the draft presented here: the mountain community law will be the rule and the pre-emptive and procedural order shown in it when the order of pre-emption is to be established when purchasing areas classified in the vineyard register. There is a special situation, and there must be an advantage for vine owners, neighbours, and let me not list them, not for those who have come from outside and who have acquired pre-emptive title; they must obviously be left over. Finally, this is clarified by the law, that the order of order of the mountain village law will have to be taken into account from here on in order to make this clear to everyone. Here there have been many attacks on the bill and on the government's work so far in that I ask you nicely, we are telling you now, with what kind of discount we would like to give the municipalities state land, in case they claim it, what we have done so far. Then I would like to answer these questions: within the framework of the social land programme, I will bring these data from 2012 onwards, 135 hectares were managed by 6 municipalities; between 2012 and 2014 1606 hectares were managed by 202 municipalities; between 2015 and 2019, 1581 hectares were managed by 151 municipalities. What are you talking about? In Hungarian: everyone who requested and pointed out the state property that they wanted, they got it, and 3322 hectares in total were transferred to 359 municipalities. I note that even 113 municipalities have received land free of charge. At the same time, this law now gives municipalities a very large opportunity to further land use, as it removes them from the usual competitive tendering procedure so far, since the municipalities are deemed to have no position when the municipality should compete with farmers, neighbouring farmers, local residents, livestock farmers, organic producers and farmers in other order. Therefore, in my opinion, very rightly, the municipalities are excluded from competitive tendering, so that the municipalities can obtain land directly on the basis of the procedure applied to them. I simply do not understand the accusation that the current legislation puts local authorities in the background, since the person who has read the detailed description can see it, and, moreover, it has been written out in a very clear way in the relevant detail as to what a special, better situation is being created for municipalities to buy land and to buy so-called land for investment. In many cases, because they want to invest in international or domestic applications, they need land, and they do not have to accept the five-year cultivation obligation as a concession. Anyone with a little experience in land matters knows exactly what it means that when I buy land, I have a five-year cultivation obligation, oops, but if I want to build on it, and I want to buy it, do I have to? This restriction has greatly hindered the acquisition of ownership in the municipalities, so this condition will also be abolished, in fact rebutting the opposition's accusation of the disadvantage that the municipalities will face in relation to this submitted land and other legislation. And here we go to an exciting question, the question of model farms. As the devil, all opposition representatives refer to this as having acquired property that would have been illegal, and now, in addition to the illegal acquisition of property, they would like to be given special concessions by this law to give them about this picture of the sample farms. I've only heard from Jobbik's representatives, quite rightly, how these model farms stand, who are the owners there, and what they do. Let's be honest about that. Please, today, in the series of sample farms, the Sad Bioeconomy has been mentioned, and I regret that many do not know the true nature of this farming, but I note that they should be lucky to go there, look around and experience the work they do in the Sad Pattern Economy, their joys: most of the Hungarian population of grey cattle, the saving and breeding of buffalo farming, mangalica, all indigenous species of Hungarian livestock. [[12.30]] And in addition, surprisingly, they no longer count the passing wild birds in the autumn on the Hortobágy, but in the area of this model farm. They can count 20-25 more in a season than the Hortobágy, which has always been a top holder. So, is the Sad Pattern Economy such a dark horse? Don't paint the devil on the wall. I know what hurts you or what's sensitive: let me mention two of these model farms, Bólyi and Dalmandi Agrarian Zrt. This, by the way, belongs to the Bonafarm group; we could say that it has only one owner, so I'm talking about a group of owners. But let's clarify the physical location and history of these two sample farms. These farms are not now model farms, but have been sample farms for over a hundred years. It didn't matter that communism was here, or before, an empire, a Hungarian kingdom, and whatever state forms they were, these farms were model farms, only then their owners made them a model farm through the archduches, the barons, the imperial partowners of Dalmandon and Bóly. And there is no question that this model economy role of history has been translated in some way, and today, in these sample farms, there is a national interest in the fact that, from the conservation of genetic resources, the very high-security food production that you are concerned about, among other things, that we have food supplies in the current situation. There is; not only because of these two farms, it is a model economy, it is the peak of production, but because of all other farmers, we have this proven ability to produce. And then let us name the other sample farms: State Farm Szilvasvárad, Bábolna National Farms and National Farms and Farms Zrt. Peaceful county. We are talking about three, one hundred percent state-owned economy. Then who are the hoofed devils in these model farms? For whom, by the way, the law actually removes the control of possession. It's not for everyone, it's just for model farms. And in the exceptional situation, in a lifelike situation, those who may inherit and exchange land will be dissolved here. But it's a minimum release limit, so let's be clear, it's only true for this situation, and it's not true for later if someone still wants to buy land. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Dezső Sad, Fidesz.]] who's been hanging over, let's say, the title of inheritance on 300 hectares. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Sándor Csányi.]] it shall not be taken until its production area falls below 300 hectares. Everyone who knows a little bit about the rules of the Land Traffic Act is aware of that. Of course, those who do not know it can create fear and unfair accusations against the Hungarian government that we now lift the limits of 300 hectares. That's not true. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sanyi, calm down, do it right!]] I hope that Agnes Vadai's speech was strongly observed when it came to the issue of the transfer of property to churches or, by the way, support at all. Clearly, hatred of the churches was fried from the speech. This is DK's element, essence, I might say, and I dedicate it to a remarkable speech to the members and leaders of every church received, because someday there will be a time when Fidesz-KDNP will no longer be on the government. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Very soon!]] You'll be old ladies, and we'll be old gentlemen, and someday, history will bring it this way. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I resent it!]] to be taken into account [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: In two years I won't be an old lady! I resent it. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But then everyone should remember what kind of world will come from the perspective of churches and cooperation with churches. To counterbalance all this anti-clerical speech, I would like to finish my speech so that the king of kings, lord of lords, Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-64	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai already has a two-minute opportunity to comment.
u2020-04-07-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Font Representative Alexander... [[Defiance.]] Congressman, you've already confused me a little, you've confused the season with the guy. The Parliament does not have to meet to meet your needs, the Parliament must meet to solve the problems raised by the epidemic together. The economic defense action plan... I prefer the proposal, because this action-hero text gives me the creeps, so the proposals should be discussed here. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I should have.]] That's why Parliament should meet. Or, for example, for farmers, there should be legislation to help them. And it is not for the Parliament to meet to literally push through and shove down our throats the amendments that are only in your best interests and in your best interests. I would like to say to Mr Font that he is right, that I am not an agricultural expert, that is true, and I have never said that I am, but since 2006, as far as I am aware, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has spoken a lot about agriculture. I do not want to be personal, although you have done this very strongly, but I have to say, despite your long-standing concern for agriculture, no Prime Minister has ever thought, including his own, to control agriculture at government level. Maybe there's a reason for that. I've never wanted to control agriculture at government or committee level. I would add that the Democratic Coalition has no place in the Committee on Agriculture because it hasn't made it. Every time I go to committee meetings and try to ask questions, I don't get an answer there. I would add that that's why I have to put a lot of questions to the agricultural purse, and with a few exceptions, but I've been getting the information that's important lately. I would like to say to the Member that we did not sit here in Parliament to entertain ourselves. We are here on this bill because the questions we want to discuss are important. And finally, I would like to note one thing: apparently there are a lot more people in the opposition benches than in the pro-government benches. Thank you very much. [[Lajos Korózs: That's always the case. Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-04-07-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, who will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2020-04-07-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, There are several points of concern for the Hungarian Movement, and I would like to mention some without the need for completeness. Indeed, it would be worth considering the consideration for the sum of HUF 50,000 per gold crown. And believe me, Minister, I'm not saying this because it's nice to bid on an opposition representative for the government's proposal that if the government says 50 grand, we will determine, say, 100 thousand forints per crown of gold. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Sounds better.]] So this is not the motivation, but the joyful or less welcome, of course, but constantly increasing land prices in Hungary. In view of the change in the value of the land, the 50,000 HUF/golden crown seems to be quite low, even the relatively moderate land prices in Eastern Hungary are less than in Western Transdanubia, but the 50,000 HUF/golden crown may already be in many places in Eastern Hungary, even if we are talking about bargaining between private owners. Ádám Steinmetz mentioned at the end of his speech the incredibly painful process of registering land ownership. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to briefly outline the path from the law firm to the registration of land. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long!]] And that is indeed terribly administrative, but I will summarise it very briefly, and I would like to bring this problem closer only to those fellow Members who do not face it. I've had the luck or the misfortune to overcome these problems more than once, or at least tried to overcome them. The process begins, our House, that the seller and the buyer go to the lawyer who made the document, conclude the sale; buy a sales contract, and do not overwrite it. The sales contract is then posted on the billboard of the mayor's office of the location of the land. 60 days pass, the notice is taken off, sent to the county land office; the county land office to the county agricultural chamber; the county agricultural chamber to the local land committee; the local land committee to the county agricultural chamber. Then the ping-ponging continues with the agricultural chamber returning the documents to the county land office, where the actual approval will take place. The documents will then be returned to the lawyer making the document, and the lawyer making the document will then send the relevant documents to the district land office at the location of the ground, which will record the ownership of the land. On average, this will take around 6 months, but there is no shortage of administration for 8-10 months or more, as I did not want to numb you here yet by bringing the maximum deadline for each procedure. [[12.40]] But this kind of ping-ponging of documents or this kind of road, I think, is meaningless in slowing down the registration of land ownership, and indeed, for example, a plougher or especially, let's say, a fruity cultivation area can cause serious problems. I have already raised the possibility, in the context of a loud thinking session of the Committee on Agriculture, to examine, to consider that at least 60 days of posting should be reduced to 30 days, since in today's online world, when everyone is practically on the Internet, and the notices are available there, so it is not necessary for an interested local farmer to see what notices are currently posted on the billboard, it is enough to look at, even with the help of his mobile phone, what notices are running or what notices have been published in the given settlement, then I think it would be worth considering the half of the 60-day posting time. I wouldn't dare say anything shorter, because obviously it could be an exaggeration, but it would be worth considering shortening at least one month there on these amazing procedural deadlines. Six-month administration is a relatively optimal case when there are no delays and we assume that this process ends with approval. I would like to say to you in the best of good intentions, Minister, that it would be worth thinking about simplifying this. As I have sent you several well-meaning proposals, and I have made various suggestions. This national land-use arrangement is not yet the national land-use arrangement that opposition representatives have already referred to, the abolition of undivided common property is not the proposal to be expected. Again, in this debate, I would like to raise some proposals with unwavering determination that would be important, or some of which should have been included here already. Let us consider that, at the moment, if a sales contract is made within an undivided common-owned area again, then we do not have to suspend and approve the sale if this sale terminates the undivided joint ownership, the acquisition of all gold crowns is done simultaneously, or the last transaction is made with which virtually one owner receives the undivided joint-owned property. Typically, there are mainly oligarchs or speculators in the financial situation of buying at the same time even larger undivided common-owned areas. In this case, there is no suspension and no approval, so there is no multiplicity of protective walls, which I have just presented to you in detail, perhaps in a numbing detail. On the other hand, there is an obligation to suspend and approve when small sales take place within undivided common-owned areas, which do not result in the elimination of undivided joint ownership. A fundamental contradiction is that when the possibility of speculation may arise because of greater capital needs, there is no administrative and legal protection, and when it is almost certain that this is not possible, it is necessary to go through the above-mentioned crazy procedure. It is therefore important that I go further within the given table, Minister, in the case of sales and exchanges between the same group of owners involved in the same municipality or geographically adjacent settlement, it would be worth allowing the exemption from suspension and/or suspension and approval as soon as possible in order to eliminate undivided joint ownership as much as possible, because this is, I can safely say, an agricultural and economic interest. If we assume from the basic position or the basic theory that supplying the country with high-quality food is a fundamental issue of national security, then I must say that the elimination and elimination of undivided common property by fire and iron is a matter of national security and national security. At the same time, I would like to mention some of the interesting things that may have been mentioned so far, and there is also room for these thoughts in this debate. One of them is the matter of the merger trades. I would like to draw the attention of all my fellow Members that there is a serious contradiction here between the concept of land exchange for the purposes of tax laws and the concept of land exchange for the purposes of land consolidation. The land law, if you like, provides sufficient flexibility, almost to some extent, for most of the exchanges this concept can be drawn upon, which in this sense makes life easier for small and medium-sized farmers or family farms. However, the concept of tax law is unduly narrow. This is particularly painful in cases where, in the case of either one or both parts of the land, there is a change of ownership or change in ownership within five years. As a rule, when buying a land, customers are exempt from the payment of a 4 per cent acquisition fee, since in the vast majority of cases they undertake not to be alienated within five years, but within five years there may be a reasonable management reason, when it is not a question of wanting to make trade and suddenly want to make a big difference between buying and selling prices, but, for some reason, it must be replaced within a given settlement or, say, in neighbouring settlements that are typically close to each other. If you do so within five years, with the exception of a very small proportion of cases, you will have to pay a double charge, i.e. a retaliatory levy. In this case, as the owner changes within five years even in the event of a replacement, in the vast majority of cases he sees that it is not four, but eight percent, which takes out completely unreasonably crazy money from his pocket. In addition, in the fifth year following the first transaction, first contract or ownership registration, the NAV usually only indicates that this is the case. So, compared to the acquisition, let's say, in the second year, he made such an exchange, and for some reason, he doesn't pay attention to administration, but is perfectly reasonable about farming, doing the farming work, then three years from now he's faced with a double levy being sewed around his neck from years away, which puts him in a very, very difficult position. That is why I propose with great respect, in the name of the Hungarian Movement, that this concept be unified, be it kind, Minister, to begin negotiations with the Ministry of Finance, which I can recommend to you, that they try to harmonise and align the conceptual difference between the two major fields or areas. Otherwise, we would recommend the use of the concept of land law exchange. We do not think that the future of the central budget depends on the collection of retaliative levies, but it would be very helpful for farmers not to have to dodge these mines or step on these mines and pay heavy burdens completely unduly. As we understand, of course, the rules on forest renovation safeguards. At the same time, I must note here that we have fallen on the other side of the horse. There's a saying around here, probably a lot of people know that as long as there's a forest, there's gonna be a bird. However, the bird should not look at forest farmers who are otherwise trying to farm in a fair manner, under the circumstances, Minister, that if we turn the coronal virus epidemic off our minds for a moment, but we include storm damage at the end of June last year, when huge forests, huge quantities of wood have fallen, have been destroyed not only in Hungary, but also in the surrounding countries, and therefore, whether the firewood or industrial wood market has become saturated, the profession estimates a slight reduction in this saturation for at least two years, and yet there are amazing administrative and financial obstacles for simple forest farmers. What we need to see is that the forest restoration guarantee of at least HUF 500,000 per hectare is in many cases a barrier to normal farming, because if we use only a round area of 10 hectares, then we see that it is very rare when this guarantee does not have to be paid in advance. [[12.50]] This means, ladies and gentlemen, that, before another tree is demolished, we are very far from selling before the first tree is cut down, 5 million forints must be transferred as a forest restoration guarantee, and 70 percent of this will be returned to the forest farmer when he installs the new stock, where appropriate, from the start of the crop in the case of a slower crop to the establishment of the new stock, up to a year or more than one year may pass outside the farmer's fault, and then the remaining 30 percent when he reaches a certain size depending on the new stock variety. In English, a much larger amount of used or possibly used is to be paid in advance under a forest renovation guarantee. In many cases, even practitioners or experienced forest farmers are in a lot of trouble because it depends on the natural status of forests, i.e. legal definitions, when, in what cases, this guarantee is to be paid. But let's just say that in the vast majority of the cuttings, it is necessary to ring the bell, which may not shake a multi-billion-dollar company, but often creates insurmountable difficulties for a small or medium-sized forest farmer, especially in the current state of the timber market, especially in the current state of the timber market, with a global epidemic when employers and workers are in a more difficult situation. I'm not saying in any way that the forest restoration guarantee should be terminated, because that would be an extreme, that would be a huge exaggeration. But I say, Minister, that you should consider that the case should be reduced to a reasonable level, and perhaps the minimum rate of 500 thousand forints/hectare should be reduced to half, at least for a temporary period, until the situation in the pandemic or last year's natural disaster is slightly improved or reduced. So there's plenty of stuff to do here anyway. I trust that, in the spring session, even within a few weeks, there will be a proposal for the abolition of this form of ownership, which will eliminate this form of ownership as quickly as possible. What is happening now is that if only one in 50 owners does not want the order of distribution or division in the given area, they will destroy the management of the other 49 owners, and the elimination of this should start as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2020-04-07-68	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, who will be followed by Adam Steinmetz in a two-minute comment.
u2020-04-07-69	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to make a promise in advance: I will not abuse the possibility given by house rules, so I will certainly not complete the timeframe available to me, but I also have to give some personal impressions. I am very sad about the development of this debate, because we have heard an expo from a prepared minister here, and he is indeed one of the ministers I find most prepared, Minister, we have listened to a somewhat disgruntled, instructive voice from the President of the Commission, with a very timeless and, in my view, powerful, poorly timed slide. The reason for my sadness is that we should be arguing here, among other things, about how we can compensate, replace, and, of course, how we can compensate for the loss of income, wages and other incomes of those working in agriculture, and of course, it is very important that we say the 88th. How the fate of the will heirs evolves. I, too, would very much like it not to be an automatic state einstand, but to have a transitional period under which those affected may apply. If earlier, unknowingly, the unfortunate event that led them to inherit, then have a chance to turn this process in a positive direction. However, we are not talking about the possible inability of a whole sector, of employees in a whole sector, nor have I heard a single word in the debate about how Hungary, the Hungarian economy, is trying to solve the labour shortage that may now arise during the spring period. However, we also see that the fate of the 13 000 hectares protected area in itself deserves a separate debate, but, my fellow Member Font, you also did not announce the details of a package intended to protect the entire economy yesterday. We were here together in the Parliament building, you were not willing to debate this, neither you nor your fellow Members, were willing to share a percentage number with us as to how far you would go in terms of wage replacements. And today at the online press conference, Minister, he announced the details that you forgot to discuss with this Parliament. So when we talk about the need for parliamentary work, my fellow Member, I like it very much, but I would like to look at each other here in the building. I would like to do a worthwhile job, and I would like to hold fruitful debates on these very important details, and please allow this to go under the roof. It is not the essence of parliamentarism that you should be able to keep a record of your presence and say that we were here, but that Minister Palkovics should not make announcements without having the courage to bring these ideas into Parliament at the level of ideas, because we will obviously say that what you are planning to do now for the replacement of wages is not enough, and it will not be enough to deal with these problems at systemic level. So not only is it not a brave solution, but it is specifically one of the weaker, weaker, more braked, foamed solutions in Europe, and it is a shame that it was so full. We should be talking about how to get these things through more effectively. The fact is that in this debate, too, the claim that Hungary, which is the size of today, can and can feed tens of millions of people is made. This is indeed true, although I prefer to use the Carpathian Basin outlook in this context, as it is the Carpathian Basin that can function as a kind of cradle and, if you will, as a food base in Europe. The fact is that this may even be true, but what we in Parliament need to be most interested in is how this slides down to the level of a simple customer, how it appears there. My fellow Members, what we see is that now, even in the days of the crisis, when a person enters a shopping mall, what kind of snake pickles he encounters, well, it is typically not with the huge stocks of domestic crops left here, but with the Spanish product. If anyone wants to buy peppers, they meet Moroccan peppers. The fact is, yes, sometimes you can buy Hungarians in Interspar, five for 700 HUF. Obviously, I do not want to list the prices of the markets now, because I promised not to abuse the time frame, but quite simply to the level of the simple consumer and customer, everything you want to talk about will not be covered. That's the big problem. We should take into account the fact that we are breaking out of unsustainable economic models across the long supply chains, and that we need a Hungary that seeks self-sufficiency within Europe, a whole new vision. This epidemic, this crisis, is now allowing us to reevaluate the concepts we have had so far, so that you can see that what President Font represented at the head of the committee 12 years ago may have been well-meaning, but it does not work at the 21st. In the century. You have to take the last 30 years, cut them into a dump in history, and you have to come up with new models. We need to come up with a new vision, a new life management, where GDP data will be less important, and the human development index is more important, how we have access to high-quality education, health, and not just the statistical data used so far, but the indicators of human quality of life, which you have not worked out yet, have not accepted the proposals and proposals for this. So my respectful request is to change the attitude of the last 30 years, because it will be little to manage a crisis, and it will be little to restart the economy. We see that in Hungary, in the Carpathian Basin, we have all the potential to start in a normal, manageable, human way of living, and then we can manage the emigration spiral, then we will be able to have productive debates about the problems that record weak forints cause now, too, for those who buy basic foods, and in this there is plenty of it, unfortunately, there is no import product, which now brutally boosts the prices of imported products by the extremely weak forints. These could, of course, be discussed for several hours. My respectful request is to change the optics, and to move towards a self-sustaining Hungary, these very bad fixations of the last thirty years are finally thrown out, because it is our shared responsibility to resurrect Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-07-70	Thank you, Congressman. On a two-minute comment, I will give the floor to Mr Ádám Steinmetz, who will also be followed by Mr Font Sándor in a two-minute comment.
u2020-04-07-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unlike President Font Sándor, I would not go on speaking on a personal and political basis. I am pleased, by the way, that Mr President does not represent the Commission's work in this view, and I hope that his speech will also change from the previous one. Dear Minister, One thing, one proposal, one comment was left out of my previous speech, and this is the amendment proposal 82. It belongs to Section 4 of this Annex. This is meant to amend the Land Traffic Act by selling more land at a combined purchase price if they are neighbouring to each other so far, at least in my opinion, and this is where the point is that either the land user registered in the land use register is the same person. Then I understand that a property in Somogyjad and a property in Nyíregyháza can be the subject of a contract of sale in the event that it is the same user of the land, because it is quite lifeless. [[13.00]] I'd like you to answer that. Or at least put it in the bill that if the buyer is a user of these areas, because then I understand and logical that it can be combined, because they are entitled to pre-purchase, the Somogyyádi would not necessarily buy birchgyháza land. Please answer this question, and we would very much appreciate it if you would also answer the points raised here by me and my fellow Members. And I still wish you a lot of strength in your work. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-72	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Font.
u2020-04-07-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I do not know what has been so sensitive to opposition representatives, as I have been talking about all practical technical things, such as the lack of compensation for share owners or local authorities' access to land use, and I have clarified, in my view, the question of model economy. But I cannot ignore the fact that the MSZP, DK and Dialogue do not have a parliamentary representative in our committee, so I say that they are getting further away from the problem of the Hungarians in the countryside, so they are trying to corner the government on the political side with all kinds of inconclusive speeches. This is gonna be hard. Dániel Z. Carpathian, who had just left, told us to change, to throw away the system we had built and to move on to a new foundation. I can't even quote what he said, I think, a series of phrases. Let us be clear that the governance that has started since 2010 has led to one of the largest developments in agriculture at European level. Those who do not believe this, please read every year the agricultural report discussed by our committee, and those who have time to come to our committee's open meeting next week, a week from today, and listen to the 2019 agricultural agricultural report. Very nice numbers can be read again. I don't know what to throw away what Daniel Z. Carpathian wants. Should we throw away the developing sector that has become one of the cornerstones of Hungarian GDP? I don't understand this speech. I am, of course, pleased that everyone is focusing attention on buying Hungarian goods; I am rooting for this. It is not true that the shortage of labour is an obstacle to current agricultural production, since the production of goods that may have been carried out so far by foreigners, be it asparagus picking and then the next strawberry picking, in which there was indeed a great deal of foreign labour, but currently asparagus picking is a work carried out at the same time at home. In English, the labour force, which was liberated and unfortunately released as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, immediately found its place. And if you still have such problems, please contact the Association of Gypsy Local Governments in Hungary, which will offer a very large number of ready-to-do workers and immediately go to work where there is a shortage of workers. I am currently talking about the shortage of agricultural manual labour. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-04-07-74	Thank you, Congressman. I am now giving the floor to Congressman István Apáti in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-07-75	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Font President, In many cases, I see the picture a little more nuanced in terms of action. I have no prejudices in this respect, but my post judgements and my experience are all the more distraught, but I do not want to bore you now, nor do I want to use my time frame to do so. The debate had a particularly sharp point. It is proposed that land or land which is not more than 3 hectares, but not more than 10 hectares, can be obtained without a separate tender. Of course, if this practice would serve or serve the interests of circles that wish to obtain public land solely or predominantly for investment purposes and not for actual farming purposes, in the most noble sense of the word, it will obviously not trigger the targeted effect. However, if the small and medium-sized local family farms, in particular, which I would recommend to the Agricultural Ministry, put young farmers in a position, it could also be a very successful measure. By the way, the near future will show this. Here's the question of inheritance. I understand that a kind of preliminary measure can also be taken to eliminate undivided joint ownership, as the main, most neural point in the reproduction of fragmentation is precisely the question of inheritance. I would also suggest here, however, that which authority, in what way which office can verify that whoever is in the farmer's register actually deals with farming. For if a person is an apologies for the term, on paper only a peasant or a flaster, but if, by chance, either by carrying out a goldfisher's host course or by having an earlier income from agriculture because we do not forget that the sole title or way of entering a farmer's register is not to have a goldfish certificate, it is enough to obtain taxable income from agricultural activities, then he will receive the certificate from the NAV that the district land office will use to register him in the farmer's register. Correct me, Minister, if I'm wrong. It is very welcome to have someone in this register, but is he really engaged in farming, either as a major activity or as an additional activity? I consider this to be a well-meaning idea, but it is a very sensitive issue in this way to regulate succession. Perhaps it would be worth taking greater caution here, if for no other reason than because of the points I have just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, These past weeks, and I am thinking specifically about the coronal virus epidemic, have shown that priorities will change in a matter of moments and we need to quickly re-evaluate certain things. What we see is, when everything gets bare, what's the most important thing. Now I'm really simplifying my thoughts to the extreme: to have something to eat and to have something to heat when it's cold. If either one of these two basic conditions is not met, very serious problems may arise, not only at regional level but also at national level. If someone, then I am a great lover, a great fan of the forests, but perhaps it would be worth considering the side of the forest protection fine, the side of the crop change to increase ploughing and fruity areas. In particular, I would like to point out in a loud thought that it might be worth considering that forests classified as wood plantations or cultural forests are typical alien species; again, this should be treated with caution because there are also very useful and valuable varieties of alien species, such as acacia, but there are also less valuable and less useful varieties, so it would be worth considering that when you want to use such areas to magicate or make other cultivated areas, such as ploughing or fruity cultivation areas, in order to obtain more areas for the production of food, high quality Hungarian food production, it might be worth thinking about reducing, suspending or reducing forest protection fines of 500 thousand forints/hectare. The extent of this forest protection penalty, if I recall correctly the text of the law, may be up to HUF 2 million per hectare in extreme cases, which is practically a reprisal or something that will discourage those who might think that they would prefer arable or fruit crops in a forest area with a less useful species of wood. It is only important to think about this, Minister, because we know that it is becoming increasingly difficult to buy land on a market basis in Hungary, because we see that, in my experience, the number of sales contracts is also decreasing. This is precisely why it would be worth looking at areas less important from a forestry point of view, obviously with sufficient fineness and thoroughness, because there is no door-to-door access to the house and it is clearly not possible to eliminate forest areas, and I do not want to cross the point of increasing the size of the forested areas, but there should be a delicate balance here, which I think is once again a priority interest in increasing the proportion of fields and orchards. Perhaps less valuable forest areas at some time should be covered for this purpose and the administrative and financial obstacles associated with this should be significantly reduced. I commend this with great respect for your consideration. Thank you very much. [[13.10]]
u2020-04-07-76	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai for two minutes, who will be followed in two minutes by Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2020-04-07-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to my pro-government colleague that we are very happy to take part in the work of the Committee on Agriculture, if Fidesz has not provided the place for the Democratic Coalition so far, of course I will try to be there on Tuesday at the committee meeting, and I have already tried to do so. I would also like to inform the Member that viewing as a scientific participation in agriculture in my world is not very meaningful. In recent times, we have seen many times that there have been all kinds of views, initiations, and dinners, and that does not mean in any way that someone knows about agriculture. By the way, the Hungarian minister is a living example of this. Finally, just now, Mr Font spoke about the importance of bio-economy, what a wonderful bio-economy is. I'd like to tell you that there was a wonderfully beautiful organic economy in this country called Kishantos [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Zoltán Magyar applaud.]] And you, for the sake of someone, have only one decision to kill it without Hungarian agriculture seeing it. What I would like to say is that the opposition representatives here, with their suggestions, want to serve the purpose of what the Minister said in his expoze, that the national domain policy directives, in order to represent the national interest, should be implemented. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as I know, even opposition representatives and their constituents are involved. Perhaps, during the time of the emergency, they will submit a law that will rule us out, and we will certainly debate about it. In the present situation, we can make suggestions, we will make them, you will either accept them or you will not. Believe me, the Members of this House are not led by the intention to acquire vast estates, to take advantage of others, or perhaps to be farmers with golden claws who have never had anything to do with agriculture. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2020-04-07-79	Thank you, Mr. President. I was pleased to hear the President of the Commission's words that this means that next week our committee will be able to discuss the agricultural economic report, so that we will be able to reconvene the debates that are now being held year after year, according to which you are talking about some wonderful progress in agriculture based solely on GDP data, and we will be able to say that the proportion of domestic seeds, or the averages of crops, are all behind what is expected, or we will also be able to talk about that the welcome well-being of the 10-15 thousand families that are not for us in Hungarian agriculture, which is for you. But besides all that, don't take it personally if I say that this direction that you're going through is absolutely wrong and wrong, even because you're going against your earlier promises exactly. Instead of helping family farms, there is a brutal concentration of property in this country. When they promised to increase public participation in the Hungarian countryside earlier, they sold state land, and if we do not necessarily believe that these beneficiaries, these new landowners, model farms, are now calling them this because of the law, they will certainly keep the aspects of the common good first in mind. On the one hand, do not be offended that we do not believe this, because this has not been the practice so far, and on the other hand, this law does not provide guarantees. It would be good if it included, let us say, that we will finally wake up to a country after this law is passed, where we continue to push not the best, not the most disponsors over most subsidies, not the largest land users with reduced public land leases. We have not heard any justifications or arguments for this so far, why they should be placed in a position with reduced leases for another 50 years, and therefore have a strong say in market processes and a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis fair producers. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-80	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Minister István Nagy if he would like to make a closing statement. [[Dr. István Nagy is rising to speak.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-07-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would like to thank you for the tone of the debate, because when we talk about property policy issues, it always raises very sharp questions. When we think about Hungarian history, the issues of property policy have always occurred after major system transformations, they have always brought about huge social and economic changes, and we are also now: we can now close certain parts of the estate policy decisions of the 1990s in the first stage, and we will be back, in two or three weeks we will have a package of laws before Parliament on the abolition of the common undivided regime. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Oh, good.]] , with which to close the earth policy issues opened in the '90s. These are very sensitive, very difficult issues, and we have had to address these issues with a great deal of responsibility, and I am therefore very grateful to you that, as opponents, you have also formulated those issues as pro-government representatives, which have come to the front of each one more or less particularly. Thank you very much for that again. Let me respond to some comments in such a way that I must admit that I did not have the colorful imagination to imagine things that one or two of our fellow Members raised. God sees, my soul, the good intentions in the law, that we were not in our minds to deal with the issues mentioned and raised by one or two fellow Members. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] However, I am very pleased that all of you, almost without exception, have stressed that a lot of people consider it technical, understand, feel the intention expressed in it, and that they could support a lot of it. My fellow Member Zoltán Magyar also said a sentence that the law solves a real problem, the law solves a real problem itself. Of course, a number of questions have been raised, on which I even owe this House an explanation. What everyone raises and what we've all been told is the question of model farms, and they pretend they don't fully understand what this is about. The pattern, as it seems, is not typical of the entire Hungarian agriculture, it is not characteristic of the entire Hungarian estate policy, but must fulfil the role of the model economy as it is destined for. I mean, what does the model economy mean? That it is leading, that it creates technological developments by participating in university higher education by participating in research and development, which serves real patterns, so that it can help the farming community by making investments that it can serve the widest possible circle, because its raw material, the raw material that farmers produce, can therefore process in its processing plant, can provide a full sample. Now, I must say that the Hungarian state also owes thanks and thanks to the model economies. Why is that? Because the money that the state should put in the taxpayers' money to make these investments will be put in by the private sector and will do it for us, and that is a huge opportunity for us to increase the direction of development. I mean, think about it: an investment in irrigation, even in the smallest volume, if we are talking about just a few hundred hectares, a lot of 5 billion, obviously not a few years, but a longer period. The construction of a large processing plant, the investment, its return again, is clearly not a few years, but much more years; and it is not a rule in stone that 50 years is. It's available. The Minister may decide to extend that period if it is required to be extended for an investment. So we're not talking about items that are automatic or carved in stone at all. [[13.20]] So to say that the government turned from family farms to much larger farms is a completely wrong idea. With all our efforts, with every single application that we are announcing, we are working on how exactly to strengthen small and medium-sized family economies. If you've looked at the legislative intentions of the wallet that we're coming up with, you can see these timetables, you just have to solve the cardinal issues. And here some people have suggested why we're coming up with this law in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic. I have to tell you that we weren't prepared with this law during the coronal virus epidemic. We had the timetable; we were preparing for a completely natural, normal period, and we thought that this was the first step, and then the undivided elimination of the joint, and then the issue of family farms about succession and similar things, which could help the whole issue function and economical survival. But while we're in this situation, we still have to stand by and obviously look at this whole law through other glasses. What we need to see is that if we have ever had a very great need to do these estate policy arrangements precisely, if we have ever needed to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, if we have ever needed to do so, if we have ever needed to do so, if we have ever needed to strengthen the large investments needed to put quality food on the shelf of our largest supermarket chains at the highest level of self-sufficiency, then the law is precisely right here, because it draws our attention to the danger that we cannot be vulnerable to foreign suppliers; how important it is that we strengthen the domestic food industry. That's what this is all about. And from here on out, the details that we need to talk about are coming up. The social land programme was also mentioned by my fellow Member, Font, but the fact is that we gave 3322 hectares once and now closed, not so long ago, giving 750 hectares to municipalities for full free management of assets, precisely because they asked why now, because everything has a pace. 'Cause where's the best place on earth? In the hands of farmers. It is the best place for people to live, safety, and rural survival. Then, for those of our fellow citizens who are socially in need, who have fallen out of work, whose self-sufficiency is at risk, let us make it possible for the municipalities, through the social land programme, to obtain public employment in areas where they can carry out this activity, to supply the community kitchen, social institutions, schools and the like with the crops that are there. And they always stop here, and I'd like to say something very important, and now in the shadow of the coronal virus, we have to make it infinitely accentuated again. We must not stop here, because it is not just the value that we produce there, but the knowledge that these people learn how to produce it. Because if there is ever an important emphasis on the role of self-sufficiency, the need to rediscover our gardens, to re-use them, it's exactly the week when the best time for sowing is now. There is no better opportunity than when there is such a virus threat, when we focus our attention on our vulnerability, our weaknesses, to draw attention to the importance of cultivating our gardens. And we are working on the possibility that anyone who needs seed can be given seed; how we can help us get him to, yes, for his own safety, the hidden reserve of hundreds of thousands of hectares of gardens in Hungary today is uneducated, in the gardens in which we may have grass or grass, instead of digging up the garden, and how to find suitable vegetables or fruit for our own self-sufficiency. This was then raised by our fellow Member Varga: model economy, integration, bottom-up or top-down. We cannot walk past it without, of course, what we want and what would be the ideal one, which has been able to achieve in the economic development of countries with a better history, that it comes from below. It's the most natural. Let's get everyone together with their surplus and build the processing plant, the entire purchasing network, and then get the sales chains. It's safer and the best thing in the world. However, we had a particular historical situation when collectivized agriculture worked, which did not allow the generation that could create this today to be strengthened. So you have to control it from above, you have to put money in it somewhere who has the capital to organize the whole thing because it's not in it. What did the changes in the system have to do with? They were involved in how many families were destroyed, how many people were fooled by forcing them into integration. What crimes and tragedies have occurred in people's lives! Trust is lost because people have been fooled so many times. I have to. And if you look at the poultry sector, it's very well integrated, it's safe. Our pig sector is starting to work. Thank God, the seeded plant, the gardening plant, is now increasingly functioning in integration through the nests. You can see that only in the organised framework can you go forward well, which gives you safety and the background of producers. When our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, raises the point that, of course, we will look at where he comes from in connection with the cucumber and the paprika... now. Yeah, because ours isn't ready yet, it's gonna take a week. So when I asked the representatives of the big stores to talk about what was happening here, what happened was that our producers were crying about seeing the snake pickle in the shops. Only when the stores asked for the snake pickle, we didn't have it yet, but next week it will be. And I can say the hope that orders will arrive from large stores and retail chains, and the domestic primer will finally find a place. I wrote a letter to the leaders of each retail chain for a reason, and I recommended to them that it is extremely important, both nationally and nationally, to have Hungarian goods in the trade chains in this situation, because crossing borders and difficulties in transport are a problem of livelihood for many people, for which I lose. But it's no coincidence that I'm fighting to reopen the markets, because I need to get the domestic product somewhere, and I see some hypocrisy in this matter that I have to say. Impossible is the hypocrisy that is happening with regard to market opening, because we are concerned about people. Sure, but people have to buy basic food. If they don't go to the market, where can they buy it? It's a private space, small business. Is that better and safer than going to a free air market? And there's still a lot of municipalities still resisting. And over and over again, there's Easter, there's meatballs and craft producers who do traditional Easter products and make them. Thousands of people will go bankrupt if we cannot open the markets and we do not make this possible. And I'll tell you worse: there are seedlings that are needed for the entire summer vegetable production in the gardens, and they have no opportunity to sell elsewhere than in the market. So I urge the municipalities to re-open the markets, to allow security measures, so that people can take their goods there, and others can buy them, because everything that is happening there is essential for strengthening the local economy. Returning to the comments of my fellow Members, Mrs Ágnes Vadai raised: yes, she is looking for proposals to assist the sector. That has just been said in another place, because the government is working on how to re-launch the economy and what the steps we need to take. I believe that everything the agricultural purse can do for agriculture and for the food industry, by exerting its strength, it does every day. I also go from producer to producer, visiting them at sectoral level to assure them of our compassion, cooperation, to explore how we can help and to thank them for the position they are doing every day, because I believe that thanks and what I can do to help you are always needed in this sector. If we don't sow now, we won't be able to reap later, it's very, very important. [[13.30]] She has given a very good answer to the question of what we consider to be a model economy. It's excellent to be a vital ingredient. Yeah, that's the way I see it. Therefore, it cannot be a sample farm which is not a vital component in its territory. Thank you very much for this added value, and we will continue to carry it and use it, because it is very, very important. He raised the question of ecclesiastical schools... the access of churches to the earth, and I immediately told myself, because the answer is precisely that, the question of church schools, is the answer. After all, there have been several initiatives in which they wish to take over agricultural secondary or vocational schools, and, of course, where the agricultural vocational school belongs, we would like to pass this on to them so that they can carry out practical tasks. In the area of plant houses, I have to say that there is a well-thought, premeditated intention in the law because of what we have faced? We were faced with a huge difficulty... First, the strategy was that we should be self-sufficient in the primary, not import goods, but the Hungarian product should be here. At the same time, what are we facing? By making it a very difficult and very capital-intensive investment. If we burden all of this with a lot of benefits and difficulties, we simply deter investors from coming and helping them to do so. The aim of facilitating the construction of plant houses was precisely to support and help primary production; our unspoken goal was to double it compared to the present one. Many were concerned about protected natural areas. I have to say that it is precisely that we are obliged to buy back from farmers those areas that are protected, so that we can maintain the level of protection and, of course, hand them over to national parks in asset management. That is what we are looking for, and that is what we will be able to do. So it's not that we sell it, it's that the areas that have been under protection for 20 years, but are under farm use, and they handle it professionally, under the control of national park colleagues, they follow all the rules from why we should buy it back and keep it in national park treatment, but we leave it at the farmer's place, because it's in good hands: it can follow those rules, it can follow every single rule. There is no greater community of interests than holding in the hands of a farmer an area that has been fully and safely maintained for at least 20 years. What I'm saying is that you can only sell a protected product from cultivation, otherwise it can only be a trade, protected land cannot be sold to anyone at all. Nine thousand hectares of protected cooperative land goes into the management of national parks. Nine thousand acres of cooperative land goes into national parks! We were asked how the question of the undivided common is: this means one million undivided properties, with 2.4 million hectares and 3.5 to 4 million people. It's a great story. And think of it as only 150,000 farmers. So when legal stories come, that's why there's a big difference, that as long as there's 3.5 to 4 million people involved, there's 150,000 farmers. So this is where we have to sort out these questions. Several raised the figure of 50,000 forints per gold crown. I'll admit that, with respect, you can always make one more promise, you're right. He's gonna be able to add 50 grand to the 4,000, I think, at today's prices, it's totally fine. When you think about the fact that 20 crowned earths represent a million forints per hectare, and practically all over 20 is 1.5 million forints, the whole market price is also the story. I would add that these were property that was never at man's hands, but a promise to them. So now these people, who are affected by this, are also going to have a very serious opportunity, a very serious amount of money coming into their hands. Mr Abbot suggested that the entries should be simplified and the deadline reduced. Yeah, you're absolutely right, it's eligible. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the law also provides that we are now going to apply an online posting, because it is much more realistic, much easier for people to look at, and that will be quite good. I would argue, I confess, on the question of the forest instead of the forest, because it is also a good answer to all the intentions, the social expectations that were formulated here before the outbreak, the climate crisis, the climate change issues, if we increase the number of forested areas. And we do not want to reduce it, but we want to increase it as much as possible, so that we can declare those areas of poor productivity that we have more of a forested area than there are fewer problems with them. The question has been raised with my fellow Member Steinmetz and with my fellow Member Mr Z. Carpath what will happen to farmers, lack of labour and so on. I have to say that the agricultural portfolio has launched its Work Harvest website in order to bring together workers who are looking for work and those who have to do seasonal or seasonal work. This is a simple biological issue; what we are not doing now cannot be done. Indeed, there is a lack of seasonal workers from abroad, but with good organisation, I must say that on the basis of the principle of necessity, we must find people who are looking for work, and this website, Labour Harvest, helps to bring together demand and supply. That is why we have worked in partnership with the leaders of Roma municipalities, so that we can also bring together the free labour capacity that appears there, and that is why we are asking the workers in the service sector and all the workers in the sectors who have lost their jobs now, but who want to work, want to get paid, ensure their livelihood that there is seasonal work in agriculture, seasonal work, there is a certain livelihood. Finally, let me thank you all once again for the fact that we have been able to think together on such a serious and difficult issue, and I am very grateful that this reflection can help and strengthen us in the fact that all the land policy arrangements that remain on this law and the following can be completed this year, and we will be able to close 2020 by saying that all the inheritances and burdens that we inherited in our land policy will be closed with this year. Thank you all for our contribution to this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-82	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the amendment of certain laws on administrative matters and on the application of free wealth until closure. The government referral is T/9934. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[13.40]]
u2020-04-07-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government's priority over the last ten years has been to simplify administrative procedures and to significantly accelerate procedures. This also meant a paradigm shift, as it was not so long ago that we could talk about a partnership between public authorities and customers, but rather a subordination relationship, and we believe that we had an administrative system in Hungary that could be dealt with with in many ways, and that I would now ignore it, but it would not have been appropriate to use the indication of the customer-friendly service administration. After 2010, a systematic, systematic and planned renewal of the administrative system and the establishment of the marginal conditions of the service administration took place. The most important change was the design of the steering window system from 2011. Today, the number of government windows is over 300 nationwide. The essence of this is that one-stop shop can be done in a customer-friendly way. The case number is well over ten million, which is currently being handled by government windows. This infrastructure is part of the renewal of public administration. But there is also a procedural side to all bureaucracy cuts. The key point of this was the government cycle, which started in 2014, because it adopted the government document "The Public Administration and Public Service Development Strategy" 2014-2020, which set the timetable for six years. Following this, Parliament and the government adopted a number of legislative measures to reduce red tape and reduce public costs. Finally, as a cornerstone of this, the Parliament adopted the Act on General Administrative Rules, the 2016 CL. the number of the law, which, with its entry into force on 1 January 2018, has indeed brought a new approach and a new administrative attitude. In this context, the primary objective of the legislative amendment now submitted by the Government is the establishment of a legal institution for a so-called pending decision. The legal institution of the pending decision was previously the CLXXXVI of 2015 on amendments to the law relating to administrative bureaucracy reduction. It was introduced by law into the administrative authority procedure, followed by the so-called Akr, which I mentioned earlier. He's taken over. The objective of the measure was clearly positive in terms of speeding up the administrative procedures and determining the legal consequences and the legal consequences for the authority in the case of procedures beyond the deadline. At the same time, at the same time as the pending decision, the so-called so-called so-called summary procedure was entered into the legal system, a simplified, quick procedure that precedes the decision with suspensive effect and, where possible, takes a decision within 8 days in respect of the requests submitted by the client. Such a procedure may take place if we are talking about a complete application, if, on the basis of the information available to the authority, the facts are clarified and if there is no client against it. If these conditions do not exist and no decision can be taken under the so-called suspensive procedure, the Authority should take a decision under the rules currently in force. In this context, it should provide that an amount corresponding to the levy payable for the conduct of the proceedings or to the fee payable for administrative procedures and other procedures under the Law on Charges, or, failing that, HUF 10 thousand, is to be paid by the authority to the applicant client, or that the applicant client is to be exempted from payment of the procedural costs, or that the exercise of the right applied for is to the client. This conditional decision will then be effective, of course, when the time limit for the procedure is otherwise reached. The pending decision has accordingly been applied in the legal system since 1 January 2016, for a total of four years. On the basis of the past period, it can be concluded that the speeding up of the administrative procedures has been achieved by the fact that a significant majority of the proceedings are currently taking place in so-called so-called sommed procedures. In order to achieve this, so that the administrative procedures are redirected to the many procedures that will be completed within 8 days, it is no longer necessary to take such a formalised decision, which will result in additional work and costs. In addition, although the institution of a conditional decision is, in fact, favourable to the customer side or puts the authority in a need for action, it can also cause a number of misunderstandings on the customer side. In practice, this seems to be the case where a procedure cannot be followed, the client is informed, on the one hand, that in the event of the specific conditions being met, the right applied for by him may be exercised and, if certain conditions are met, the official levy or fee paid by him may be recovered. Then, in parallel, the procedure is still ongoing, the outcome of which is not apparent at all when the customer has already received this notification. Thus, in many cases, the law applied for may not be exercised by the client either because the authority takes the opposite decision or the levy or fee will not be recovered because the authority has taken a decision within the time limits of procedure. This is a problem because, without intention, the authority can deceive a legally executed citizen, a legally executed client. I, too, have received such a decision of pending effect, and I myself am also a judge of law, but it was not easy for me to interpret the terms of that decision, not even for me. Moreover, decision-making with contingent effect is a huge administrative burden for law enforcement administrators, whether we are talking about government officials or municipal administrators. Only the metropolitan and county government offices make about one and a half million pending decisions on an annual basis. One and a half million orders, decisions, typically in three-to-four-page decisions, provide for decisions that most of which are never actually effective. Of course, a decision with a binding effect must also be formally delivered to customers on the basis of the applicable delivery rules. This only results in an annual burden and additional cost of almost half a billion forints for the metropolitan and county government offices. This is about the fact that for half a billion forints, the state informs customers that decisions typically did not bring legal effects to their case. This is also the experience at the level of municipal administration. This is not in line with the efficient and cost-effective use of public funds and also with common sense. By the way, against significant costs, the customer's financial reimbursement is minimal, while, as I said, half a billion forints a year represents the obligation to deliver pending decisions. A minimum amount is thus repaid to customers. This is also a joyful thing, since it shows that the authorities keep the procedural framework at their disposal and set out by law. In 129 cases only in the case of government offices, the levy or administrative service fee was repaid. This did not amount to HUF 10 million, and in 1606 cases an amount of HUF 10 thousand was paid to customers. Thus, the amount repaid and paid was HUF 16 million on a total government office page. Thus, while decisions with a contingent effect, which is an indicative act, the associated postal costs amounted to almost half a billion forints in 2018, only HUF 25 million should be added to customers forints 10 million and 16 million forints, HUF 26 million was paid, i.e. the measure costs the public finances 18 times as much as it brings to the customers concerned. On the basis of the above, I hope that we will come to the consensus that, although there have been a number of positive consequences for this measure and, of course, it is important for the authorities to be burdened by some kind of sanction, if they do not make their decision in time, by the institution of pending decision, so that the form in which this legal institution operates creates an unnecessary additional burden for the authorities and, as I have said, it is difficult for customers to interpret. On this basis, in this bill, we propose that the legal institution of the pending decision should cease to exist, with the effects of it continuing to be part of the general administrative procedure, without the authority taking a separate decision in advance. [[13.50]] Therefore, we intend to continue to direct everyone and all procedures towards the most complex procedures, and, if the conditions for carrying out the sommal procedure are not met, the time limits for the procedure should be kept by the authority, and if these procedural deadlines are not met by the authority, the obligation to repay the levy or penalty fee will continue to be imposed on the authority, only the customer will not be informed of this by post in the normal course. However, it would also be noted that, if possible, the client would be informed electronically, i.e. by e-mail, of the time limit for administration of the entire procedure, the legal consequences of the expiry of the deadline, and that the authority would no longer act in accordance with the rules of the procedure, but rather with the rules of the whole procedure. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The primary and most important objective of this bill is to define this change for codification purposes, but we are also proposing to resolve a number of other administrative issues in this bill. One is that, by amending the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment, the determining authority has so far been a notary of the district seat, municipal authority, and the district municipality of Budapest, in order to change the purpose of the construction of the construction of 400 square metres or more of the gross surface area. At the first moment, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I stress that this means that the notary did not act in this procedural form, and, of course, on the basis of the bill and, in the context of the regulation at the level of the government decree, the law would designate the notary, but the metropolitan and county government office, as the authority of the change of destination, in the power of the government. An important element of the bill: in the context of the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, our national shrine in Mátraverebély-Szentkút and Máriapócs will be declared a national memorial place. At the same time, the Mining Act is also being amended and we want to limit mining activities in the field of mining in order to ensure the smoothness of sacral events and other outdoor programmes at national shrines. A key objective is to ensure that large central investments in the capital can be made as quickly as possible, with the environment as well as the local people as much burdened as possible. To this end, we also want to amend the laws on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance, on the protection of cultural heritage and on the renewal and development of the City Park. In the case of investments of particular public interest, if the installation is hindered by the part of the building of the neighbouring property beyond the boundary of the property, the owner of the adjacent property shall, in addition, undertake the demolition and conversion of that part of the building. In order to ensure that the development of the City Park is carried out, we consider the urban grove project, which may already be classified as an investment in the public interest under the legislation, to be of particular importance, and the law states that the local government does not apply a change ban in respect of the real estate concerned, and that, if the municipal decree contains an alternative requirement, the law applies instead. The issue of urban development is not only a question of law enforcement, but also a political issue, and the government is the government of 2018 After the municipal elections, he also took a political position and stated that no building will be built in Városliget that will not be supported by the Municipality of Budapest in the Council of Public Developments. This continues, so the new national gallery will not be built, the house of Hungarian innovation will not be built, and the theatre of the City Park will not be built unless the City Council changes its mind or until it changes its mind. Buildings the construction of which is ongoing may continue, in this context the political agreement has been reached. This amendment is necessary because the change ban imposed by the Metropolitan Assembly prevented not only the construction of the construction, but also the construction of the three unsupported buildings, but also the green surfaces of the already ongoing developments, which could have been completed by now. I list these green surface developments: the renewal and expansion of the small botanical garden in the city Park, the green Promenade in the area of the Fifty-Six, the implementation of multifunctional sports fields, the construction of a two-kilometer light-lit running circle, the implementation of another dog experience park, and the opening and greening of waste concrete and asphalt surfaces in the City Park. These improvements could not be made because the Metropolitan Assembly imposed a change ban. We believe that the ban on changes to the Metropolitan Assembly does not apply to this, but to the construction of new buildings, the three buildings I mentioned earlier, the new national gallery, the house of Hungarian innovation, the theatre of Városliget. These buildings, although they have valid permits, will not be built until the Council of Public Development unanimously decides. However, these green development needs to be carried out and, in this respect, as a legal instrument, the ban on change hinders these developments. We are therefore proposing that they should not be applied. In addition, the proposal will address a situation of uncertainty at the moment with regard to gender change by amending the civil status law. At the moment, it is uncertain that there is a situation in which there may be an administrative change of gender in Hungary from the point of view of administrative registration. The proposal uses the clarification that from now on, biological data from birth should be recorded in the Hungarian official register, i.e. in the personal data recorded by the Hungarian State. So the Hungarian state keeps only one record from this point on, as to the biological sex of the unborn child on the basis of the primary sex nature or chromosome count. After this, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian authorities, has nothing to do with this, and the bill does not contain any restrictions in this context, so that this type of intervention or identity acceptance can be carried out freely, the Hungarian authorities have a specific record of the non-natal data. In addition, it is important that the Hungarian State, as well as the authorities, as well as health institutions and prison institutions, are aware of the gender of the person concerned at birth. This may, where appropriate, save lives and, where appropriate, contribute to the maintenance of the detention order. Furthermore, the key point of the bill is the asset allocation to which the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society is intended to recognise in the event of the support of the Parliament. In 1999, the public foundation was founded by the government, involved in the public task of scientific research, the protection of public education, educational and cultural goods, and the execution of a number of commemorative years. They are currently managing or using these properties. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, I would also like to address the amendment of the Disaster Protection Act. [[14.00]] The bill you read and submit now proposes that, in the event of an emergency, the bill on disaster protection entitles mayors to exercise the rights of the body of representatives in order to protect them. Originally, we would have proposed that, in such cases, the mayor, the mayor, or the chairman of the county general meeting be subject to the approval of the county and capital defense committee. In this connection, a public debate between political sides started, with certain mayors as far as the press is concerned, and as far as the information gets to me, regardless of the political side, with these rights, which have been guaranteed for years by the disaster protection law, how much they live or abuse. The proposal would have liked to have dealt with this situation with an extra filter, an existing one, because there is legal control of these decisions now, but with an additional filter, including the protection committees. But given that this has clearly caused very serious political turbulence, and at the moment, in the context of emergency legislation, the government is proposing to maintain the widest possible national unity [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Let's not do this. I didn't even...]] We try, but there's not always reception from all sides, but hope dies last. So, in this context, we will waive this amendment. So in this debate, I would like to ask you to consider that this legislative point is not supported by the government. But you are in favour of the other legislative points, and I would like to ask you to support the entire bill that we have here. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, followed by Andrea Varga-Damm, Imre Vejkey and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal before this House includes a number of objectives, one of which is the creation of rules to reduce administrative bureaucracy. The legal institution for pending decisions was born in 2015 at the will of the legislator. The aim of the introduction of this legal institution was to simplify and speed up administrative procedures. The experience of the period since then has shown, on the one hand, that the legal institution of the pending decision places a significant bureaucratic burden on the enforcement of public law and, on the other hand, in the vast majority of cases, it was difficult for customers to understand. Based on experience and in the spirit of cutting red tape, the pending decision will be terminated as a formal act, with the condition that its positive effects on citizens remain. Therefore, these effects automatically apply without a formal decision, so that the customer's rights are not undermined. But let's see what we're talking about. If the administrative deadline is exceeded, an amount corresponding to a fee or fee for the conduct of the procedure shall, failing this, be payable to the requesting client, who shall also be exempt from payment of the procedural costs, and, where possible, the client shall be informed electronically by e-mail of the time limit for the administration of the full procedure, the legal consequences of the exceeding the time limit and the fact that the authority shall proceed in accordance with the rules of the whole procedure. With this, it will also be ensured, for the future, that the procedures can be dealt with by the authorities with the usual speed and professionalism in the years behind us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight some other important provisions of the proposed bill. Under the proposal, two state-owned properties will be owned free of charge by the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. In addition, the public foundation is exempted by law from MNV Zrt. There is no obligation to pay a fee for property management and to recover it and to reimburse it by applying the assets. The Foundation shall be established by carrying out public tasks related to the protection of scientific research, public education, education and cultural goods. In line with its public benefit objectives, it operates several work organisations, such as the House of Terror Museum, the XXI. Company Institute, the Communist Research Institute or the Habsburg Historical Institute. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] It has also become necessary to amend the law on the registration procedure. The legislation in force does not currently contain the concept of 'no', as it does not. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Its definition is based on biological basis. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The birth certificate is not based on the fact established by the doctor, which is declared by the birth certificate, which, until proven otherwise, justifies the registered facts and rights, so it has no legal effect. However, on the basis of the gender declared by the register, rights or obligations may already arise. Accordingly, it is necessary to define the concept of "no birth'. In view of the fact that it is not entirely possible to change the biological sex, it is necessary to state in law that it is not possible to change it in the register. So, after possible sex conversion surgery, the birth records remain the same for the sex. Dear House, I would also like to mention the purpose of amending the law on the formation and protection of the built environment. To date, the authority for the modification of the purpose of the construction with a gross surface area of 400 square metres or more to the commercial purpose was the local municipal notary of the place of establishment of the district of the building, the municipal notary of the metropolitan district in the capital district, the metropolitan notary of the area directly managed by the metropolitan municipality. The draft law proposes that the metropolitan and county government office act as the authority for the modification of its purpose instead of the notary. It is therefore essential to amend the relevant procedural legislation in such a way as to make the technical resolution to date a declaration on a technical issue. Finally, I would like to stress that the decision to declare our national shrines in Mátraverebély-szentkút and Máriapócs as a national monument is heartwarming to me. The protection of national memorial sites, the preservation of future generations and their peaceful visit are public interests, in which religious communities and ecclesiastical legal persons play an important role. Our national shrines are an important part of our Christian identity and historical heritage. Dear Parliament, I have no intention of listing all laws on administrative matters covered by the proposal. In my view, the proposal on the House's table intends to sufficiently regulate the objectives of cutting red tape, increasing the efficiency and speed of procedures and preserving monuments. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-86	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-07-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/9934 in front of us. I heard music from Mr Orbán's author's mouth when he said that the change in 2015 did not fulfill the hope attached to pending decisions. It's always a pleasure to hear that, because it's also a criticism of itself. If we look at the speeches at the parliamentary sittings at that time, then we can see that opposition representatives have already warned the rapporteur how much complications this will cause in the administration. Clients will not understand the importance and benefits of this, but it will be a huge cost. [[14.10]] What are we hearing now? That it cost the taxpayers half a billion. In such a case, I would ask who will pay for this damage, since a responsible government should have seen it if not for itself, at least during the warnings. Once again, we have a salad law before us. I've been looking at it for the last ten months since this cycle took place, it's close to the tenth administrative amendment to the salad law. I thought that if someone wrote a thesis or a PhD about the administrative legislation of the fourth Orbán government, they would be given a very rich record of the rulership of kescousness and inevitability. We also see that, in general, the salad laws are brought before the House because there is some kind of sublime goal of general justification, and then the devil is always in detail; of course, there are countless in this proposal. I am pleased that you did not say this, Mr State Secretary, but in your words you said that the Orbán government is not infallible, and that it has once again managed to spend several hundred million unnecessarily and create confusion in the administration system with regard to pending decisions. I always say hello to someone who understands their mistake, and now we're part of these rare events. This proposal amends 49 laws. In 15 minutes, it is impossible to comment on them in detail, but I also found the details, the details of the devil in this proposal, and I would like to share some of them. The 1997 LXXVIII. law is the law on the built environment, in which we will see again this amazing, I do not know who invented the institution: at national level, it is the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County who issues a professional opinion when there is a change of function in a commercial structure over 400 square meters, and their discretionary rights are allowed to do so. Of course, we can see that Hajdú-Bihar County is so pro-government that, for example, all matters of political concern in criminal matters are also discussed by the Debrecen Tribunal. So it seems that Hajdú-Bihar county's loyalty to the government applies in all areas of expertise in such a way that it actually plays a role in the hands of such an extended government. But what else is unacceptable in this proposal? 57/C. Paragraph (2) of the Act states that it amends the question of the authority's position as a professional authority, that it can be issued in 75 days instead of 60 days, and that it makes further facilitations for the authority to be able to take the procedure for almost unlimited time before making a decision, even though it is justified that the purpose of the government was to facilitate it. I can't imagine that with these new amendments, this will change the hope that he has. It remains unacceptable to me and I must say that it is the government's commissaries who rule the entire administrative authorisation procedure through government offices that I cannot accept at all that this power should be taken out of the hands of the notary. So if, by the way, we had voted in favour of the proposal, this is one of the important amendments, which certainly does not require local government offices to operate under government manual control. A notary could have made these decisions precisely, fairly, on the basis of legislation, living conditions and fairness. It is also proposed to include a specific topic on how to change the purpose of the construction over 400 square meters for commercial purposes. We have come to the point that, for example, if someone wants to run a 420-square-meter restaurant in commercial activity, they have to go up to the minister to get permission to change function, that function design can happen. Well, I'm sorry, there's always the government talking about democracy here. Will Viktor Orbán really decide to operate a commercial unit over 400 square meters? ! That is what this proposal contains. Why do you have to go up to a minister for that? So we're gonna bring back the party states? In addition, a committee operated by a minister will be set up, and I do not know what kind of git is in people's everyday lives, in other words, in this case, they want to give a dominant position in the everyday lives of economic organizations. The next important issue is the 2006 LIII. The question of investments that are of major importance for the national economy. Here's a new 11/C. The new paragraph 5 of Section 5 is born, where it says that if the building on the adjacent property extends to the plot of such an investment, the owner of this structure must be obliged to break down. Well, that's how I pictured this situation. Let's say, for 80 years there has been a structure that we don't know for what reason, but it extends to another area, and then suddenly, after 80 years, the owner, who might not even have noticed it, because he didn't study the land-book conditions, there are no fences, there has never been an official act with which he could have recognized it, and then there comes a demand to break up the house. Well, that's great. [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]] I do not understand: if Minister of State Balázs Orbán has already said that they want to adapt the rules to natural conditions of life, to ease them, then this situation has not been simulated? Why is there no alternative in the proposal? We know very well that there are land borders, that if a structure extends over it, the land that fits it can be attached to it by landscaping, so there is no common land, and the investment that can be made in the national economy is also possible, it does not have to be broken down, and the owner does not find himself in such a terrible situation. And we think the proposal makes it easier, because maybe, if it doesn't happen, some sort of simpler procedure will follow this problem, but no, it will bring it into the court system. Well, imagine how long a lawsuit like this lasts? ! If I strive to ensure that investments of high importance for national security can be built as quickly and effectively as possible, then I will certainly not create a situation where if the parties cannot agree, then a judicial path will end, because then the acceleration and the original goal will be completely lost. Therefore, I would already like to ask Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, to discuss this once again, until this vote takes place, so that an alternative is that, if the legislation permits and the plot sizes are such, the land corresponding to or necessary for the cross-border building can be attached to that area, so that the plot of the investment that has been highlighted by the national economy continues to have enough land to accommodate the originally planned building; at least this alternative proposal should be made. Believe me, I really want this to work, if that's what you're trying to do. The next topic is the 2008 XCIX on the promotion of performing art organisations. Law. Well, that's unacceptable. Eszenyi Enikő and his associates' problems, the financing of the theatre coming from the municipality to the state, this is a serious issue of the past period. But given the fact that the state budget is being used and that the state may continue to operate it, could you please tell me why, in the supervisory board, there must be three types of ministerial delegates? Don't be mad, it's the art world. I believe the government wants its hands, eyes, ears in spending money, I accept that. Tell him that a man, a person delegated by the government, must be in a supervisory board. But three? Is this about a few people who need to be given a position because they haven't gotten enough of what they've been expecting? I simply can't imagine that this is happening differently, because if at any time a single person in the Supervisory Board detects an irregularity doesn't need three, enough one, then he initiates the investigation, he initiates the finding, and a single member of the Supervisory Board may signal to the maintainer or the funder that children, this doesn't work well, and doesn't need three. [[14.20]] So with all due respect, I really don't think we should keep these institutions on such a leash just because a significant part of their funding is being made from the state budget. And especially in the present situation, when the theatres fall away from terrible revenue, the multitude of actors have been left without income. So right now, in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, bringing in a rule like this, I'm not saying it's excessive, but it's not elegant. At this point, we should strive for generosity to work. So what the government has been too strict about or too determined to pursue its own interests, now give it up. I ask those involved in the legislation that, in line with today's announcements, which have begun to move somewhere in the interests of the people, this is precisely the spirit that we are dealing with these matters, because it is a sensitive social group, it is an important social group, it is important factors in Hungary's cultural and social life, and we should not in any way make them feel that mistrust is the ruler. Then it's City Park. CCXLII 2013 Law 42. § in this package of laws. The 12th of this law. It amends §2 of the Act so that, if there is a change ban, it does not work for investments that are of major importance for the national economy. I was thinking of a joke about the first point about the husband being right all the time. And the second point is, if the husband is not right, then the first point prevails. So these three paragraphs, as they put it, are basically a picture of the classic joke. I think, although it is true that, in his presentation, State Secretary Balázs Orbán emphasised what he did not want to build, and they made their proposal to further develop Városliget in order to ensure green spaces and to create a diversified natural environment, I honestly believe Mr Balázs Orbán. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I don't!]] And I want to believe what you just said. And I gotta tell you, if I don't, I'm gonna keep track. So I can assure you of that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I wouldn't be in his shoes!]] I'm not sure he's that scared, but maybe it matters. Then comes the 50-54 of this proposal. Article 2 (1) (a) This is the grant of wealth to the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. Honestly, these institutions, House of Terror, are important. Company XXI Company, Communist Research Institute, Habsburg Historical Institute, everything, so we're looking for everything, we have everything under the aegis of this foundation. One important question is that I learned from this that he has a fee. So it took a law to find out that this foundation doesn't pay a fee properly, or even has some sort of uploading obligation, either. So how worthwhile it was to come into this Parliament and read this proposal, because we have been answered to such an important question that it has a debt, to the state budget. I tell you frankly, if the important task of these institutions and institutions for our professional and society over the past period had not gone into everyday politics, I say that we should give them everything, but I cannot say this, because unfortunately they have not been doing their job in the last few years. So thank you very much for your attention. And I barely slipped through the 15th minute. Have a nice day.
u2020-04-07-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It is a difficult situation to respond to. You have to try.]]
u2020-04-07-89	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/9934 on the amendment of certain administrative laws and on certain free asset reliefs. I do not wish to repeat what was said in Mr Balázs Orbán's exposé, but, in particular, specifically to opposition speakers, but I would like to present the main points of substance. Firstly, with regard to the imposition of pending decisions. The pending decision in Hungarian law was introduced as a new legal institution as of 1 January 2016 by amending the administrative procedural law. On the basis of this bill, the pending decision will cease as a formal act, but the positive effects on citizens, such as the procedural fee and the exemption from individual procedural costs, will remain. These effects are based on the facts of sui generis, without a formal decision. With this bill, customer rights will not be impaired, because if the administrative deadline is exceeded, the amount corresponding to the levy or fee or, failing that, HUF 10 thousand shall be paid to the applicant client for the procedure, and the client shall be informed of the full procedure deadline, the legal consequences of exceeding the deadline, and that the authority shall proceed in accordance with the rules of the full procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the amendment of the bill on the renewal and development of the City Park. As you know, at the end of 2020, the capital of Gergely Christmas caught up with the Liget project [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] He and his team decided to ban change in the City Park. As a result of the above hooking [[Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] We had to shut down the greenland development of the City Park. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Alas, alas, alas! Dániel Z. Kárpát: Liget as green development, come on!]] The purpose of this bill is to ensure that, if adopted by this House, the development of the green surface of the park can continue without delay, which will enable the visitors to acquire thousands of square meters of new green space. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Concrete!]] Remember, the Liget project is one of the biggest projects in Hungary's history, if not its largest park and landscape building work, along with cultural institution development that has not been seen since the millennium. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the free allocation of the bill to the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. According to the bill, the House of Terror Museum, the XX. Company Institute, XXI. A public foundation operating the Company Institute, the Communism Research Institute, the Kertész Imre Institute and the Habsburg Historical Institute would be the property of the Budapest XII. district Bárdőr út 35 and Izöhegyi út 92. state-owned property with the aim of facilitating the Hungarian State to carry out its public tasks in relation to the protection of public education, education and cultural goods related to scientific research. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the amendment of the bill on the support and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. The most important core value of the Hungarian performing art scene is the stone theatre structure based on a permanent company, the base of which is, in addition to the state institutions, the national, full coverage of the rural local government performing arts network. The preservation of this is a national value and a national interest. In order to protect the national interest, it is necessary that, if the financial conditions of the annual operation of the common state-government theatre are fully ensured by the Hungarian central budget, three of the five members of the theatre's supervisory board should be entrusted or recalled by the Minister responsible for culture. [[14.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, let's look at the section of the bill on the amendment of the birth certificate. The bill states that birth is not a primary sex at birth or a biological sex determined on the basis of the chromosome at birth. The identity data should include this gender. And since the sex of a person at the time of birth by post-operative surgery at the time of birth cannot be changed at the time of birth, the bill precludes the non-changeability of birth in the identity. In particular, this means that possible [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After sexual conversion surgery, the birth data remain the same for the sex of birth. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the amendment of the bill on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance. According to the bill, there would be no need to ask for a shareholder's contribution to the construction of ramps, public spaces or other level-ups in the context of the implementation of the investment of a particular public interest if it ensures the proper and safe use of the building. Furthermore, according to the bill, in the case of investments of a particular public interest, if the part extending beyond the boundary of the built-in neighbouring property hinders it, the owner of the adjacent property would be obliged to undertake a restructuring of that part of the construction. So this amendment is not about what our better Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, said in his speech that he is just there and will agree to do, but if, in the case of an investment of particular public interest, the neighbour hinders the completion of the investment of a priority public interest because of his over-building. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the amendment of the bill on the protection of cultural heritage. According to the bill, if the registered monument value hinders the legal installation or use of the property adjacent to it, the authority may order the renovation or conversion of the building, building or building section with a monument. The bill also states that if the debtor does not comply with the authority's order, the authority may have the work carried out, instead of the debtor, at his expense and on his responsibility. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the amendment of the bill to shape and protect the built environment. The bill provides that, in the event of a change to the commercial purpose of a construction with a gross surface area of 400 metres or more, which previously functions as a dwelling, the notary, but the government office in the capital and county, which is competent according to the location of the building, will have jurisdiction in the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, let us look at the last main provision of the bill, which amends the law declaring our national shrine in Mátraverebély-Szentkút and Máriapócs as a national memorial place, in that it is more protective of the sacral events of the national memorial place and its other outdoor programs. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary faction of KDNP is T/9934 on the amendment of certain administrative laws and on the free allocation of assets. It supports bill No 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-07-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, will be here to speak. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start with a pun. Since Imre Vejkey, who spoke before me, said about the Liget project that Gergely Christmas hooked up with the government, let me begin by saying that I really miss the presenter of this law, Mr. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, it is true that he worked very hard that night with this salad law, but he submitted this amendment, and then Gergely Gulyás hung him the next day. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] because one of the most important parts was immediately removed and had to be modified, and the government had to withdraw immediately. So, hooking up also applies to you, since you've used that figure of speech. Now, this salad law is a little bit more serious than making fun of you. It's got some pretty serious changes in it. To be honest, we also need to talk about when we are going to change these very important things. Although not only Hungary, but the whole world, has been shaken by the coronal virus epidemic, and you are not concerned with how to slow down this epidemic, but now that there is such an emergency, you will reveal such a salad law to us. But this is not the only salad law that you have just submitted to Parliament. We really need to ask the opposition that this is really the most important thing right now. Is this really the most important thing, to cement your power even more, to make foundations and businesses close to you even more small-scale, that is really the most important thing, and not to deal with how to make life easier for Hungarian people? That question must be asked. Now, let's see what we're dealing with here. The speakers before me have already said that we have before us an amendment to the law on the modification of certain administrative laws and on the granting of free property, the amendment of the civil status procedure, the amendment of the 1993 Mining Act, the amendment of certain related laws and the amendment of the 2010 law on media services and mass communication. Chapter 50 of the proposal sets out new legislative content by providing the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society for free of charge to the XII. district real estate. By way of derogation from the property law, a disposal and debit ban will not be registered for 15 years, but for an indefinite period, in favour of the State. Deviation from property law is a fundamental provision. Chapters 1 to 49 of the proposal contain an administrative amendment to the law, and I would not comment on that at the moment. In political terms, the most important amendments are the following amendments, which are not mentioned by the rapporteur in the general statement of reasons. Provisions amending the cornerstones of the law: Article 36 § CXXVIII of 2011 on disaster management and amending certain related laws. amendment of law, abridged by Kat. And then a little bit more about it. The proposal obliges the mayor, the mayor, to give prior approval to the county, capital defense committee as indicated above. This was then amended by the amendment tabled by Minister Gulyás. [[Tamás János Schanda: He's not even in yet.]] Forty-two. § is about the renewal and development of the City Park. We have already said that, after the 2019 municipal elections, the situation in Budapest has changed, and the government is not really taking it well if someone makes a different decision than what they planned. But I'll talk about it in more detail. Article 15 is replaced by the following: § amendment of the 2001 Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The owner of the historic value may be obliged to renovate or redefine if its condition hinders investment in the public interest on the adjacent property. This is where you said, Congressman, that the proposal declares the Mátraverebély-Szentkút-hely and Máriapócs shrine a national grace. [[14.40]] Article 4 § amendment of the Act of the Year on Mining. The detailed justification also indicates that Btv. amend it to take account of the new national shrines as described in the previous point. The proposal allows open-air mining at the national shrine and within a radius of five kilometres, with the permission of the Government Office. It shall also apply to ongoing procedures. Article 10 § amendment of the Act of the Year on the Transformation and Protection of the Built Environment. From 1 January 2020, the remaining building powers of the notaries were withdrawn. We have discussed this several times here in Parliament. The related corrections will be implemented in the Etv without any changes to the content. Article 2 § 2 amendment of the Act of the Year of the registration of the personal data and address of the citizens. The proposal removes the possibility of appeal against decisions taken by the notary when keeping a personal data and address register. In the case of the Government Office, the Parliament has already provided for the same thing, so the amendment standardises the procedure. Article 14 § LXXVI of the year on copyright amendment of the law. The provisions of the Law in force since 31 December 2019 essentially treat the architectural copyright database as a public trust. However, there are a number of conditions for this, so the proposal corrects this legislative error and repeals the provisions. The proposal shall enter into force on the day following its publication, with the exception of the provisions relating to the termination of the legal institution for pending decisions, the date of entry into force of which shall be 1 July 2020. The biggest scandal -- that is, the whole salad law itself caused quite a scandal last week, and of course, it was filed again at night, again by a single pro-government representative who, of course, did not dare to come into Parliament today. One of the cornerstones of this amendment was the reduction of municipal powers, the powers of the mayors and the capital mayor, so to speak. It should be noted that, by the way, we are talking about a law of 2011, which you have already amended. We also saw that after the announcement of the emergency, news of how the Fidesz mayors immediately brought the local government under their jurisdiction. There was a Fidesz mayor who immediately frozen even the fees of opposition representatives, and immediately ordered that he be the only one to decide on all important issues. Now you're referring to your own law, your own amendment of the law, that basically the Disaster Protection Act states how a mayor should act in an emergency. You, taking advantage of this situation, wanted to amend this law in such a way that the mayors could not at all be able to do so, and specifically pointed out that opposition mayors could not take any action. I'm telling you, this salad law also suggests that you are not willing to accept any decision in the Liget project, which is about, say, the opposition-led districts or cities do not agree with you about the Liget project, and then you are trying to squeeze out the laws so that your will will prevail. This is what we see in the Liget project, and we see it in all the provisions where they want to undermine the powers of opposition mayors. The other, and I don't know what to tell you, in this situation, is why it is important that you now want to record the gender of the child when the child is born. Well, let's do a little history lesson, shall we? ? It seems to me that documents are not usually observed, what documents a person has today, what documents they issue when this child is born. When we're born, we'll get an ID number, if you don't know, and let me read you the story of that. Act No. 8 of 1974 of the Presidential Council of the Hungarian People's Republic 6. Paragraph 1 states that a uniform number of persons should be introduced in the public population register. The actual introduction of the personal number in Hungary was required by the decree of the President of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office on 28 October 1978 on the issue and use of the personal number and the personal sheet, and from 1981 it had to be introduced into birth registers. Do you understand, Mr. Secretary? On the birth certificate! It's one of those two-sided little pages. Since the ID did not originally contain the ID number, a small green number had to be attached separately when it was introduced. The structure of the personal number, just to make it clear to you what it consists of, because you don't know it; the personal number is a so-called talking number, i.e. its structure, it consists of 11 decimal digits, and I would like to list what it is: M ÉÉHNN SSSK. The meaning of the M-number, imagine, is combined. Basically, it's about gender, okay? To no! The first number, which is there, begins with the one and the two. If it's a boy, it's a number one. If it's a girl, it's a number two. But since we have already exceeded the age, now there is also,, 3, and 4, too. Number three is the little boy, number four is the little girl. I don't know what you don't understand... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You have no idea what you're talking about, Congresswoman.]] I get it, I get it! You're just suggesting that when we're born, we should be introduced into some kind of document, that it's a man... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You are mistaken about the subject!]] I've listened to you too, so please listen to me, okay? ! So, it's not clear to us why right now, why you have to touch this right now. Just like I'm going back to the city-ligeti problem, the municipal powers, the mayor's powers, and then there's the take-up of the theatres. Nothing's expensive for you. Andrea Varga-Damm, who was before me, told me that they just squeeze things so that there wouldn't be a theater that you don't control. Another question is that there are still people you should be putting away, because there are still friends who should be given another position. Here, too, in the local government reduction, it must be said that you have planned to place people above the Mayor, above the county government leaders, above the municipalities, who will carry out the government's decisions. If we looked at the roster, because it came out right away who could be in these positions, it turned out that former Fidesz MPs or Fidesz politicians would be in this position. Well, we know you're good at everything. So, if we look at this salad law, then we can really only say that you are using the emergency to further limit the powers of the local authorities, the opposition mayors, to carry on the outrageous actions of how to sniff out your own public foundations, how to make their stooges, their oligarchs, even richer, how to facilitate this free robbery. We really need to say that I personally find it outrageous that they are dealing with this, rather than talking about how we can make the situation easier for the Hungarian families who are now taking the most of their time in this situation, and they are doing the most to make it through this difficult time. Mr. Secretary, I would just like to say that I would like to send a message to Deputy Prime Minister Semyen that you are brave. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[14.50]]
u2020-04-07-92	Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Ms Ágnes Vadai, lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-07-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In general, but T/9934. I would also like to say, first of all, that there are three things that certainly do not characterize the governing parties: careful use of public funds, elegance and concentration on important issues. Maybe I could add an extra point to the fact that everyone is always being fooled, by the way. Whatever bill they're putting in, they're always fooling everyone. You don't seem to understand the point of the situation right now. The Parliament and, in particular, the opposition representatives wanted the Parliament to meet, to discuss the very, very important measures relating to the epidemic situation here and to bring together the laws that make the lives of Hungarian citizens, Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families easier. I would like to give you an example: double family allowance, pay the pensioners an immediate allowance, extend the payment of the unemployment allowance, or very specific help by giving the Hungarian citizens who lost their jobs, say, 80% of their salary. Has such laws been submitted to this House? I'm just curious. I study the Parliament's website quite often: no such bill has been submitted. On the other hand, this salad law, which is now considered to be the second, was just one of those salads, which is a confession, a misrepresentation of state property, a withdrawal, and I could say that it's a deliberate stabbing. That's pretty much what this bill is about. This proposal, which lies before us, will do no good to any Hungarian citizen, will not move forward, will not solve the crisis, will not deal with the epidemic, will not even expose people. And I can tell you that what you are doing is even a petty one in the middle of the biggest Hungarian crisis, the biggest global crisis, a pandemic. If we look at the bill in detail, my fellow Members have already spoken about it, I can say, with regard to the legal institution of the pending decision, that this is a confession. This bill, this amendment proposal, is a confession. They introduced something that lived four years and it doesn't work. It didn't work. You admitted it. I would suggest, instead of trying to find new, unorthodox legal institutions, that they respect deadlines, that they hire people and pay them, and that they do not want to eviscerate civil servants in the public sector. I think it would be a good solution, and then everyone would be happy. It is possible to introduce a variety of new specific, special legal institutions, only the end of which, my fellow Members have also talked about, that it does not work, that it costs a lot of money, that is why it must be lied to, because the Secretary of State had to come here and he had to say that you have always been careful about public money, which is why this legal institution has to be set up. No, we have to run this legal institution because it obviously didn't work. Next, I would like to mention the amendment of the law on the formation and protection of the built environment. It's good for one thing again, for taking away notary powers again. Once again, they're going to move up the decision-making level. That's exactly what we've seen in the last few days. You have already raised the decision levels so high that only the commanding general can decide on the most important issues, and slowly on how you should sit here in Parliament and how many people can sit here. I see you've decided that there's not a lot of pro-government representatives to sit here. It was in the previous law. The task of this Parliament would be to find a solution to the problems of the Hungarians together, and yet we represent the Hungarian citizens, in the first place; in this, perhaps the pro-government representatives do not argue. Compared to this, we see that once again a proposal has been submitted, and I add that it will obviously be sucked through Parliament, and they will try to shove it down everyone's throat, which does not follow the principle that decisions should be made where they are most affected. No, they're taking him up, sooner or later, to a higher level. I am sure my colleague Varga-Damm said that it is a ministerial level that Viktor Orbán will decide in person sooner or later. He's gonna sit down, and he's gonna be videotaped, and he's gonna be posted on Facebook, and he's gonna make another big decision, he's gonna sign it, he's gonna seal it. Every time I see investments in this country that are of major national importance, I don't know who it is, my fellow Members, I'm gonna be confiscating, because I'm pretty sure it's about someone stealing from your circles. This has been the case in recent years since you call everything a priority investment in the national economy. They change the rules fairly frequently, generally make the procedure easier, usually at the expense of honest, honest Hungarian citizens, and always to the benefit of dishonest, tax forints and fidesz oligarchs on EU funds. I would like to propose that once they create laws that, if they are not granite-solid, but at least limestone, would be good, and would be relatively durable, and would not always try to take measures that serve the interests of the fidesz oligarchs, but would try to do something that would serve the interests of ordinary Hungarian citizens. With regard to the amendment of the Act on the Civil Procedure, if not to all my fellow Members, but surely to whom the names of the Wachowski brothers say something; they are directors of the film called the Matrix. If the Wachowski brothers had read this bill that you submitted before taking any action, they would still be Wachowski brothers today and not Wachowski sisters. Because they are a very famous couple of directors of Polish origin, Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who must have seen the film Matrix, so he is aware of these things, I assume; he belongs to the generation who would be affected by this bill if they lived in Hungary. This bill, this amendment, affects in essence a few hundred people who have been suing various government offices for years, have also won lawsuits, and instead of the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Government acting in accordance with the law on these issues, it prohibits them from doing so by virtue of the law. My fellow Members, it is possible to talk about what you think of this LGBTQI, any world. It can be debated, it can be debated; it can be a matter of taste less, because I think no one has anything to do with who has a gender identity and what they think of themselves. It may be a matter of value, you may think differently, but frankly, I'd like to know what's going on in the middle of the biggest epidemic that you're making a few hundred people do this to humiliate a few hundred people whose lives aren't easy anyway. Statistics show that one of the highest rates of suicide among transgenders is extremely difficult to process, both physically and mentally, certain issues and certain processes. I honestly don't understand. These people will have no more rights, no more opportunities, no more bothering Imre Vejkey every day, they will do nothing to hurt you. These people are gonna live their lives, there's gonna be one difference, that if they can take these steps, they're gonna be a little happier, maybe their lives are gonna be a little better. I simply do not understand why this community should be treated this way, especially with 70 percent of Hungarians being governed by public opinion polls and you on the basis of public opinion polls do not mind at all that these people want to live as women or men. What difference does it make to you? How does that affect your life? Tell me, will you? Does that make them look at the Matrix differently? Really? Will this change the way you read the Bible? Or will they abuse us, opposition representatives, in another way? No, nothing's gonna change. It's about one thing, the real hypocrite, the petty, let's mess with other people about government behavior. I simply think that what they are doing is not only politically, but also humanly unacceptable. As far as City Park is concerned, I think my fellow Members have already made it quite clear what the problem is with this amendment proposal. I'd like to say that you're pro-clay. You're not pro-greens, you've never been pro-greens, you like big monstre structures. They love Paks, they love the Matra Force, they just love the concrete, and if they could, they'd cement the whole country, they'd cement the whole country. And I'll tell you why. They'd do all this concrete work for nothing else, because they can steal there, their oligarchs can steal. That's why. [[15.00]] Look, if you need to lay down some grass bricks or sprinkle some grass seeds, you can't steal a lot there, you can steal a lot where you can pour concrete. And you say in vain, Mr. Secretary, that you want to introduce this so that green spaces can be built in the City Park, no, that's not why. Let's be clear. You guys lie about this stuff, too. You're trying to steal again, and you're trying to help Lurch Ripper and István Garancsi. [[For the hand gesture of Dr. Balázs Orbán:]] And you can show me, you can show me anything, and I'm not touched by that, that's the truth. And let's be clear that that's what they've done so far, every step of the way has served this purpose. As for the withdrawal of the mayor's license, the protest has already been made in these cases, because your mayors, the mayors of Komló and Szekszárd, have taken the stand, and have made a decision beyond the legal situation of the emergency that they would not have had a license for. Now, do you know how to stop them, by the way? They're gonna pick up the phone and tell these two mayors to stop right now, because that's not gonna happen. Compared to that, they've come up with the county defense committee deciding to buy the last toilet paper. And then, obviously, you realize that this is going to go beyond the ability of the defense committees, the heads of the county defense committees, in time, as I should say? His intellectual abilities, because not all county defense committee presidents are able to see through the local issues that need to be decided, and here again the policy is shown, and they will decide what will be the fate of the amending proposal, I am very curious about this because they have already promised many things, but they have not done so, but they do know the best what the inhabitants of Petrivente or the citizens of Polgár, who run the settlement there, do not know the best, not even Imre Vejkey, and not even I do. So let's give the mayors the opportunity to decide on such, otherwise very serious and distressing matters. Finally, free asset allocation to the Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. Now, this does not fit in any way in this whole bill, it is simply a waste of state property for institutions that have never really liked to acquire real estate in districts or settlements that are not in Buda, and are not fork-like, so I have never seen anyone present in a tenement house who wants to open an office for himself or any of these institutions, they always want to sit in nice large houses in the most elegant, the most Buda and the most beautiful part. This would not be a problem, because I think that there is a national goal for which it is worth giving and operating these institutions real estate. But, fellow Members, this foundation, which you call a public foundation, is a fidesz foundation, it's your policy, it has nothing to do with XXI. They're very far from it anyway, not the Habsburgs, not the XX. Company, nothing! It's a fidesz institutional system! They give themselves, their own party, basically new real estate, and then they don't even have to pay. In no way... it is quite amazing that in the midst of an emergency, the law on agricultural land reveals that some of the agricultural secondary schools are trying to play for the church, and now it turns out that they are giving new villas to institutions that have only one purpose: the advertising of their stupid policy. Well, it's outrageous. The Democratic Coalition will not support this bill, nor will it support others in this form. In addition, I have to say that this bill is simply unrepairable, because it contains things that make people see people, that destroy people, that take away powers, and that are aimed at squandering state wealth. So in this form, this bill cannot be supported. I think that if you have unnecessary legislative energy, then you should be willing to use it to make your economic and social agenda a little more circumscribed, because what you have submitted to the Hungarian citizens to make their lives easier, to preserve their jobs is indeed equal to a big zero. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-94	Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I must admit, I don't understand. I do not understand that in Hungary's current state, when we all know that one of the biggest crises in the last hundred years is threatening the country, on the one hand, you have time to do so and, on the other hand, that you consider it necessary to bring it in during this period. This is really creepy. It is uncanny, because, and I must continue where my fellow Member has left off, so if you have time to do this, how shall I put it, to carry out this legislative task, then tell me how the storm may have happened, that you did not have time to launch the economic rescue package three weeks ago, because it is clear that the economic rescue package announced today contains a lot of sympathy and a lot of proposals to support and support, but one thing is not at all: what will happen to the hundreds of thousands of families, those who have already lost their jobs, and who do not have a chance to get a new job during the period of the epidemic, next week, a month from now. More than 400,000 people work in the tourism and catering industry in Hungary, these people have lost their jobs day after day, so let's say Monday to Tuesday, because the income of companies working in this sector has vanished. And compared to that, you bring this... I don't know what to call it. Let's get started then, and let's go in line, I promise, I won't be long. Eliminating and transforming a decision with an addictive effect. Well, I would like to say one brief sentence in this regard: when you made this law, it lacked exactly what is missing, for example, in the context of this law, and the fact that it was not discussed in society. 'Cause if we had a social consultation, we might not have had to cancel it right now because they're doing this right. That's the thing. And then it wouldn't have cost the Secretary of State half a billion forints last year. So, with all due respect, this amendment is indeed a perfect proof that your legislative practice is unthinkable and that it does not fit in with the least of the political traditions in Hungary. But let's keep going. This is the intended modification of buildings with a floor area of 400 square meters or more. Secretary of State, tell me where this property is, which municipality and who couldn't settle down. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I promise I'll broadcast them, but let's not make such laws just because my second neighbor, the Pista, got into a fight with the local government. Let's not turn parliament into a clown circus. I think that this will seriously damage the dignity of this House. And I think that the rest of this is just a continuation of the amok running that has started so far. What do we see? What we see is that new powers are being taken away, and I know that I already know literally the Secretary of State's explanation from the notaries. It's a process, isn't it, so it fits into the decisions and laws that you've made so far, as it fits in, and now I'm trying to literally quote that you can build a ramp without consent, a barrier-free entrance in a public area, which, frankly, I don't really have a problem with, but I don't understand what your problem is. I do not think they can give an example where a freely elected, freely elected political-colored municipality would have crossed an accessibility work. [[15.10]] This is simply the removal of the essence of the local authorities; this is the thing to take everything away from the municipalities. Years will pass; we will take power from the notary, where we will take taxes, car taxes, from tiny little slices. It's the newest one today, and I remember yesterday, it's the size of an outstretched deal. [[With your hands on your shoulders.]] The Fidesz faction leader said that only 40 percent of the vehicle tax will be lost. Today, the tourist tax, whoosh, is gone, and who knows what tomorrow will bring. So the point is that you will make the municipalities impossible by slice, and then ten years from now or two years from now, or when you feel like a gentleman, you can say that ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for local governments, so tell us what a local government can decide. Nothing! We'll decide for them. And that is my problem with that, that this process has practically not started today, and today's bill fits perfectly in this direction. I would be ashamed of myself, because I think that today's Hungarian democrats who have lived through the last 30 years since the change of regime should all be ashamed of themselves now that we have come this far. Let's keep moving. It is also part of this process when you want a majority in the supervisory board in all circumstances in the theatres with a common reservation. I think it would fit on my part, but I think that indeed, one of the Members who spoke before me said that the lack of elegance, that is the biggest problem. But I accept that you follow this philosophy, if that can be called philosophy. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 7 April 2020 117/2. Number Parliamentary Diary But we come to the most embarrassing part of this salad law, and I don't even understand the birth conditions of this part. We are talking about gender change in a way that is accessible to everyone, so the identity card must contain the state of birth. I don't understand. What I don't understand is that it's night, they're watching TV at home, and instead of thinking about how I could help tens of thousands of families in need, or thinking about what to cook tomorrow night, you're thinking that the non-altering surgery doesn't appear in the I.D. It's crazy. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] I don't understand it, and I'll admit it in a heartbeat that I'm ashamed of myself for you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right.]] I'm ashamed for you. Amazing! I have to admit, I wanted to give you two minutes apart on this question, but I'm taking the lead speech on time. He said, Mr Secretary, that the purpose of this amendment is to contribute to the order of execution. I would ask the Secretary of State to explain this in very detailed terms, because I do not understand this. I'm sure there's a mistake in me, and I'm not gonna argue that, but I really want you to explain this, that in the elf, you can contribute to the order of punishment, that it says in my I.D., that I look like a man, but I was born a woman, or I look like a woman, even though I was born a man. I don't understand how this contributes to your order. It's amazing, really. It's so unworthy, and it's all in the middle of a pandemic period. So you expect people not to care about anyone other than the news about the virus? Tell me honestly, let's be straight with each other. Then, of course, it goes on, which, I admit, hurts my heart the most: declaring the investment in the City Park, the Liget project, an investment in the public interest. So in a democracy, this is done by the elected leaders of the city having a direction, a vision of urban development. You are asked to do so, you are authorised to do so in the elections, and then this is what the city's leadership is trying to do. If this idea, which has received practically a large enough majority in the Metropolitan Assembly, costs a majority and goes against your vision, then I will quickly come with a football example so that you can understand it with a pair of feet into the Metropolitan Government. Because in a democracy, it works by putting this misunderstanding, disagreement, conflict before, for example, the forum that has the right to decide on it. For example, not to go too far to the Council of Public Developments, where representatives of the government and representatives of the capital, such as Gergely Christmas, sit across from each other and confront their positions fairly and face-to-face. And I assume that in a democracy this is happening: Mr. Mayor, as you have asked for and have been given the authority to your own urban development ideas, we will respect that. And for the misconception that we can't break concrete and plant weed, because there's a change ban, let me just say that I simply can't believe it, so the truth of this is bleak. Because I accept that a ban on change does not allow this, but forgets, Mr Secretary, that in a normal democracy, the two parties will sit down with each other and discuss it. You won't discuss it. And if there is no agreement, then there will be no force, of course, and we will lead the military out, this was an extreme example, and it does not have any reality, but I still think that everything will be resolved by force, aggressively, with such a specific legislative practice. I think I don't have to explain for a long time why this bill is not supported by the May Other Politics, because it won't support it. It would be my respectful request to the representative of the government and the two pro-government representatives to resolve this pandemic period with humility, humility to the task, which means that we are not trying to solve transsexual problems at this time, but we are trying specifically to solve the epidemic and the subsequent crisis in this House. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-96	Dear Parliament, [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, This was a momentary pause because earlier, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio indicated that he did not wish to speak, but because he wishes to speak, of course, you will now be speaking as the lead speaker of the Dialogue. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm trying not to repeat myself, but to bring up new elements. I can only confirm what my opposition fellow Members have said that this law is the chimborass of Fidesz legislation. Let us clarify how we think of the functioning of Parliament in this emergency, because several times also Mr Font, Minister of State, and other Members of the Fidesz have misinterpreted this, and they do not seem to understand it. So the fact that you are now using Parliament as an appearance because of international outrage, as if it were to work, just to show that it works, is not the same as what we are saying. [[15.20]] Our proposal is that every proposal to be discussed in the context of an emergency, as much as possible, when there is obviously a lot of measures that need to be decided and implemented quickly, but they can also be discussed afterwards, discussed here in Parliament, sitting in Parliament. That is why we have proposed that this mandate should not be without a deadline, that Parliament should have the opportunity to control it. This is not the same as the fact that you are bringing in such sketchy proposals in the event of an emergency, obviously because this is less addressed by people, less dealt with by professional organisations and various interest representatives, and so you can quietly accept these proposals. These are two different things, so don't get the wrong idea that we're surprised at how Parliament works here, and before that, we said it wouldn't work. What is wrong with us is that you are making these proposals in a situation like this instead of really talking about what will happen to people who have lost their jobs and what solutions there are. That's a reasonable argument. You say that they should not be supported, and we say that they should be supported, and you say that jobs should be created instead. Such issues should be discussed in Parliament, but instead we do so. The Secretary of State has called it a primary goal to take decisions with suspense and to make them a national memorial. He talked about it for 14 minutes, so that's probably the first purpose of the bill, so let's stop right there. Take everything out, leave it in there, and I think we'll take it. On the part of the Dialogue, but perhaps on the part of the other opposition parties, this can be said, and then it can really be accepted. If this is really the primary purpose of the law, then let it be this, and we can accept it. But obviously not, because that's what they do all the time, and this other constant misunderstanding between us and talking side by side, the salad laws. What you're doing is you're making a salad law, which has some good proposals that would be acceptable here, and I just told you what these are, and you're putting these mines next to it, which are obviously unacceptable. And if we do not vote for this, then they refer to the fact that we have not supported forward-looking proposals. It's so transparent! It's so transparent what they're doing, really! And it's really a mockery of parliamentarism that we're talking about each other like this. Then let us move on to concrete proposals. In the context of the Disaster Protection Act, which has been withdrawn, the question of the reduction of municipal powers is, in fact, why did they even think of doing so? I'm starting to get the feeling that you guys are starting to have a Christmas Gergely obsession. I think it's better if they come off this sooner or later, so I don't know why they're so allergic to the new mayor, I think it's a dangerous road. Now they're just bringing things in here out of defiance that go against the mayor, and I don't think that's very lucky. First, it was the cynical reason that this was brought in because the opposition asked for it, because, did we not complain about what Szekszárd, Komlón, Nagykanizsán the Fidesz mayor there did, and then when they saw that it was very cynical that you had to change the law because of the Fidesz mayors, then they changed it and argued that some opposition mayors ordered a curfew in certain cities, and that this amendment was necessary. I wouldn't compare the two things when a mayor really goes beyond his authority to protect people, and when a fidesz mayor is overextending to cement his own power or to spot him with the opposition. So this is a very, very unfortunate approach. I hope you will give up this proposal for good. This relates to the Liget project, which would abolish the recently introduced ban on change in the area. There was a municipal election where the opposition, the mayor's most important election promise, was to stop investments in the City Park and not allow the City Park to be built. It was the most important election promise, and it won the election. I know this is unknown to you, because you have not had a promise of choice for a long time, so we do not know what the government will accomplish, you do not know this; we have. Gergely Christmas and the Metropolitan Assembly are implementing this, and measures are being taken to achieve this. The measures taken by the government go against what the majority of the voters in Budapest want. You often refer to the majority of voters that you have two thirds here, and this justifies your decisions, and you have often said so in connection with the time-limited delegation law. Interesting, when there's reverse logic, it doesn't work. Orbán also stated here in the Parliament that the Government of Hungary does not wish to make improvements in Budapest that the responsible leaders of Budapest do not want. If you say you don't need the Liget investment, there won't be a Liget investment. This is what he said in October 2019. Then why do you need this amendment? What do you need it for? The Secretary of State claimed that this is because the development of the green surface is thus blocked. Well, that's not exactly true, that's bullshit! The mayor and the chief gardener have specifically stressed that the planting of vegetation is not covered by the ban, so from here on out, what you say is bogus. It is quite amazing that we are talking about this at this level in Parliament, that they are simply bringing in things that are not true in concrete terms. Let's keep moving. It's a free donation to the public foundation, obviously we think it's unfounded. Last year he received 23 billion, this institution received 3 billion extra subsidies this year, and now receives two properties located in the most expensive part of Budapest. Obviously, the Fidesz is generous to the public foundation associated with it. Now I'm here in the middle of the debate, and I'm just starting up the XXI. Company's professional work is a little bit to see what the XXI has been working on lately. Company, they've issued some statements and statements. These include, for example, the need to establish a system of sanctions in Parliament because of the behaviour of opposition representatives, which was one of their professional opinions. Secondly, we consider the opposition pre-election to be a source of conflict, with which the parties draw attention to each other's incompetence, which is even a terrible professional finding. But here comes the foam cake: XXI. The analyst of the century stated at the municipal elections that István Tarlós's victory would be expected at this Sunday's municipal elections, and according to their estimates, the Budapest General Assembly would also have a pro-government majority. Well, this institute is doing a very serious professional job. Congratulations. I have to add, Mária Schmidt is a good historian, she taught me, and I enjoyed her lectures very much, but this professional work is beneath criticism. So you support this institute, obviously because you're saying what you're putting in your mouth. Interestingly, there is the Institute of Political History, which was kicked out of the Academy Street by a spade, and they didn't get any real estate or support. So, if you'll be so kind as to support these institutions, then support government-critical institutions as well. Finally, the abolition of the right to sex change: we really do not understand how this comes here and why this is important on the basis of an emergency, and we really have a very difficult time saying this. But what I've been thinking is, yes, a big change in gender, but maybe if you're okay with the fact that you're going to be cut out of the People's Party by now because you're going to be part of a European extremist party camp, then I think that gender change is a much smaller thing. So when you look at it that way, you're very inclined to make changes. We will submit an amendment to each problem point, and obviously, if they are adopted, we can support this bill, but if it is maintained in this unchanged form, of course not. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-98	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, and now we have the first independent Member to come forward. I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering how this salad law, which contains dozens of laws, could have been passed before us. I imagined this in front of my spiritual eyes, that Viktor Orbán called the Jedi Council together, was surrounded by political and communication advisors, and in one place the blue hologram of Árpád Habony, who was applying from London, and Viktor said that there was a big problem: the tantrum went down after the authorisation law, people started posting again about where the masks were, where the protective equipment were. [[15.30]] Why aren't people tested? What happens to people who don't know that they'll be out of work in two or three or four weeks? And the scratching went on, so we had to do something, so that people wouldn't talk about it, but we'd throw them another rubber bone that they could chew on for weeks. Then someone had this brilliant idea that we had it, so let's do it by putting together a single law on all the cases to which the entire opposition press and opposition parties will jump as one. If you look at what's in this package of laws, you can see that the entire spectrum is there. Smashing into sexual minorities, the possibility of sex change in personal documents. Let's find something that is definitely divisive among the Budapest voters. The Liget project is wonderful, and it's a lot to worry about for years, isn't it? Let's find something that really paprikas people up, some money spilling, some waste. To give Buda villas to Mária Schmidt's foundation. It's beautiful, they're gonna love this. Then let's find something that's gonna really sting the civilian liberal intellectuals. Putting theaters under political supervision, putting political commissaries in charge of the theatres, that's gonna be big. So this is something that Deputy Prime Minister Semyen has submitted, who, I see, is not here all day in the debate when we talk about it. To make sure that it wasn't enough, they put a shovel on it, and within 24 hours that this salad law had been published, the news came out that for ten years they were encrypting the details of all the contracts of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. While the existing redistributable budgetary resources for defence must be hoarded, they will give HUF 12 billion to commemorate the changes in the system without knowing when events can be held in the country for the first time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There was no change of regime!]] Of which 500 million forints is communication only. Then and indeed this whipped cream at the top of the cake Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz will receive HUF 1800 million for the construction of the port of Balatonfüred for 170 sailboats. When I read this, I said where it could be increased. This legislative assassination was committed within 24 hours! What's behind this whole package of laws, I think there are three versions. The first is that they're crazy. Excuse me, I can't think of a better word. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, if you really think that, while the country is about to culminate in a pandemic, the rules on the attachment of non-changed citizens to the personal documents must be changed, and this is the most important problem for the country, I really must say that you have lost your senses. But I don't think that's what this is about. My fellow Members of the opposition have already suggested that it is really the background to all this, that all the embarrassing, embarrassing, likely to cause great indignation can now be crushed in a package, and then all the wonders will last for three days, and then the press and people will be very angry about it and forget about it. But I don't think that's what this is about. I think it's a diversion. I think what we're talking about here is that while everyone's going to be busy with this, they're going to post about it, they're going to read articles about it, they're going to comment on it, and in the meantime, we're going to be distracted by the issues, topics and problems that are really meaty. What are these, what are the problems that we should be discussing now, what proposals should be included in this law? Like what's going on with the protective equipment. Why is it that more planes from China arrived a week ago, and most health workers have seen nothing of it? A piece of mask didn't get to them. [[Towards László Szászfalvi:]] You're shaking your head, my fellow Member, that's right. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't wave!]] Talk to people who work in health institutions and social services. People didn't see anything, they buy for themselves, and they sew masks for themselves. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Talk to a living man!]] It's real! What about screening? Why is it that not only ordinary people are not filtered on their own request, health workers are not filtered on their own request? [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Enough of these lies!]] My fellow Member, last week I was at the nursing home at the hospital in South Pest, and we were carrying hand sanitizers, which is not solved, by the way. One of the largest hospitals in the country, responsible for the care of nearly half a million people, has no hand sanitizer at its 200-person nursing home, not until last week. I do not think that it is up to opposition representatives and civilians to do so. Nurses working there told us that the head of the department there buys their own conto masks and tries to provide that at least those health workers who are the most exposed to the infection should be somewhat protected, but most people still sew or try to get them themselves. What happens when the factories stop by mass, the jobs close? The catering sector, tourism, is the biggest problem in the most difficult situation. However, we can now read that construction is expected to fall, and there is no sector in the economy that is not affected by this. While everyone has been waiting weeks for meaningful steps to be taken, there is always an announcement announcing that soon there will be an announcement about what will happen. Before my speech, I read a few hours before Minister Palkovic's announcement that we really do not know how these amounts will help people, how they will at all help their job, the return to the labour market of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who are now facing complete insecurity. All we've learned is that pensioners get a week's pension supplement next year. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they couldn't have been more obvious to pensioners than they were, or in addition to, pensioners. Now, in this situation, when everyone is talking about the fact that, while, of course, our elderly countrymen need all sorts of protective measures to protect their own health, financial assistance, budget support should not be transferred to them, but to those who are active workers who are now well off the labour market. Because if these people don't get a job, they can't get back, then there won't be anyone to raise taxes and contributions, they can't pay in public finances, and they can't pay pensions. So if you want to help the pensioners, I beg you, don't give them one-off benefits, not charity donations, and certainly not benefits to their wallets in a year's time. With these resources, help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and help Hungarian people to get back to work, because they can create the pension from which our elderly countrymen are likely to survive. If they don't get this help, they won't be able to do that. I don't see Congressman Flórian Farkas in the pro-government benches. I'd like to ask you where she is. We haven't seen her in weeks. I am asking because the situation in the Hungarian villages is so disastrous if my fellow Members, especially in the Hungarian villages, are going to be hunger riots within days, and I would like to draw your attention to this. Crowds of people who worked as day laborers or occasional jobs, community service, and now they didn't get any money at the end of the day, by the end of the week, they're not gonna know what to live on in two or three weeks, they're already out of money. These people, who are most exposed to danger, loan sharking, loan shark loans, not only do they have no savings, they have no handholds, they will have a crowd of people, not two or three months from now, but there is a legitimate fear of actual hunger riots. Believe me, this isn't panicking, it's not hysteria, it's going to be a very serious, rough situation very soon. I would like to put it to your attention, and this has also been mentioned in the previous debate, that there has been a historic opportunity for both Hungarian political parties and opposition and pro-government representatives and politicians to give their best faces. This would be the opportunity to have a meaningful, normal debate within the walls of this House on these truly fleshy issues. But that is not what is happening now; that is not what is happening because you do not submit these laws here. [[15.40]] Hungarian opposition representatives receive information from the press and run after the events as well as news-reading citizens. And while they don't give us the opportunity to have meaningful debates, and they throw in legislation like this to chew on it, while we have a huge responsibility now, all of us, because a lot of people who don't follow politics on a daily basis don't care, hundreds of thousands and millions of these people are now trying to find out what's going to happen in this country. If they see elected representatives spending their time in completely pointless debates, quarrelling, discussing non-existent or problems that we have plenty of time to discuss, even months later, if they see that we are not dealing with their everyday problems, if they see that we are chewing on rubber bones, they will punish us very hard and they will be right. These people will remember who they were, which parties they were, which representatives were who brought substantive matters before the Parliament, dealt with substantive problems, and who used this whole case to try to treat this whole legislation as a theater from a momentary political benefit, from the baking of their own steaks, out of confusion. I ask you very much not to follow this practice. I ask the fellow government representatives not to submit such and similar rubber legislation, and I ask my fellow opposition Members not to stand up to this provocation, and we will not let them distract us from what is really important, substantive laws and proposals. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-100	Dear Parliament, Before we get to the two-minute speeches, I would like to inform the Member that he would be more than welcome to read the proposal and talk about it. I did not wish to interrupt the speech of the Chief Speaker, but we should not use this practice. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, Democratic Coalition.
u2020-04-07-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to address the point in this package of laws that makes the situation of transgender sex impossible or treats it in a way that is outrageous. We are talking about a case that was relatively fine in this country until 2018. Yes, during the first two Orbán governments, they were practically fine, and as of May 2018, EMMI practically ceased to consider the needs it received. They were not so confused about this that they had to sue the people involved, and a few months ago they won a final lawsuit on the Pécs Judgment Board, and said a judicial judgment as to what they should have done to the government already. We are talking about a case that may not affect a lot of people, but it affects them very deeply, it affects them very dramatically, and it is not possible to describe the situation in which these people live and go, especially after this amendment. The Secretary of State said, and he did say such a sentence, that it is also necessary for the treatment of prison conditions to include the sex of birth in the documents. I can't even begin to think about the consistency you've been thinking about, Mr. Secretary. That the person who performed the surgery and resurged himself, however, would go to prison in the same place as the original sex of birth? You want to kill these people? Because it's about the same, Mr. Secretary of State. We're talking about something that works even in the Eastern half-despot semi-autoriter systems. In Russia, Turkey, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, there is also the fact that a person changes or does not have the sex in the documents. The government is now assisting in an open discrimination and, of course, DK prohibits and opposes this in every way. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-103	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the speaker's speech by two of our fellow Members. On the one hand, Andrea Varga-Damm, who, in connection with the law on the formation and protection of the built environment, did not make a factual statement, because the bill does not contain any change or amendment to the statement made by the congresswoman in respect of the committee consisting of the representation of individual ministers, since this committee has existed and will continue to exist. I would also say, with regard to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, that it is not in the bill that the bill would refer to the power of the Prime Minister in the event of a change in the commercial destination of a construction with a gross surface area of 400 square metres or more, which previously function as a dwelling. No, it's not that. And I would like to say to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's speech by the lead speaker that she said that she had tabled the bill at night, but the reality is that the government submitted it six days ago in a general procedure. I would also like to respond to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in that he said that we should limit the powers of the mayors, but the reality is that this is not the case in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In a two-minute speech, I would like to refer back to an important thought by Mr Secretary of State. In his expo, the Secretary of State said how important it is to develop cooperation. I am a little afraid to tell you frankly, based on experience, that Mr Secretary of State will not comment on the debate, and then, at the end, take advantage of the possibilities of closing, and then present us with some kind of reaction. In the course of the debate, Mr State Secretary, addressing the opposition once in the last few weeks, said that all their statements of malice and perversion have been sought to explain the unexplainable. In the same debate, Congressman Balla said to the opposition that everyone was in favour of defence, except for the opposition. We heard about the anti-virus opposition here, 888 had a cover that the opposition was on the side of the virus. We have seen that, in recent times, when there have been very important votes, at the moment of the vote, the shameful graphics of the opposition have already been completed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State here in this debate what he means by cooperation. In what way is the government ready and in what way is the government open, in what way does it try to develop cooperation? I believe that the opposition representatives will also prove by their presence and their active participation in the debate that we are ready to serve the nation, to be here in Parliament and to work continuously. We have tabled a lot of proposals in recent years, we were ready to cooperate, you have swept off all proposals, and in every way you have sought to live up to the political debate in such a difficult and dangerous time. Therefore, I would like you to explain in the course of the debate how the Government intends to create the possibility of cooperation, regardless of what we are discussing. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-107	Dear House, My opinion on the salad law has not changed: I find what they are doing with Hungarian parliamentarism to be unfortunate, to say the least. I don't want to interfere with administrative legal issues because you're much better prepared than I am, say, Andrea Varga-Damm in this area. What I do know, however, is the Liget project and the amazing economic drives around it. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Don't you feel that this is the point where the country collects money from everyone from everywhere for protection? I'm looking forward to it from the parties. Wouldn't that be the point where your friends, oligarchs and friends should say, in connection with the Liget project, that so far, and no longer, we're freezing this story, we're not pouring millions of tons of concrete there, we're not destroying the environment anymore, we're not eliminating what was good in a generational way, but they're saying that this story, which, by the way, wasn't built from EU funds, not external subsidies, but it's not timely? Shouldn't we now submit a proposal to group these ten billion into the Hungarian Employment Fund? Wouldn't it make sense in this situation that, instead of the enrichment of your oligarchs, for once, you should consider the public interest? Don't you think it's amazing that, while the country is defending itself, your good friends can build a port and receive a billion-dollar commission that doesn't explain, fellow Members? You will have to lie down with this responsibility and look your children and grandchildren in the eye one day, that when you needed the resources for the defense, you were assigned to a port. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-04-07-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dezső, Member of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I have been thinking about the negotiation of this bill, and I have come to the conclusion that what has been happening here in Parliament lately and this law is also included, among them, our conduct is humiliating. It is humiliating for those who may be fighting for someone's life right now, and he is trying to survive himself. It's humiliating to think about the people who just lost their jobs and have two kids to take care of. It is humiliating because they believe they believe that we are talking about it here and we are discussing it and we are trying to decide how we can improve their operating frameworks and we are thinking about how we can make their lives easier in the coming period. In contrast, what do you experience? On the other hand, you may find that political and material gain leads those who make such proposals here in Parliament. You know, when you're running for Congress, and then you're elected by a smaller community, 70-80 thousand people, as Members of Parliament, you're very proud of that. And right now, standing here, I'm really ashamed. I'm ashamed because I can't live up to them. Because you won't let me meet their needs. Here in Parliament today, we should address the issues that are in the interests of the people and discuss them. I'm sensing that's not what this is about. But with regard to this bill, I wondered what was the point of discussing this bill in this form. The special significance of the form is that it is a salad law, and we all know that if we are discussing one of these, then obviously we should agree on a number of issues in some way. When you presented this, you knew pinpointly that there would be no agreement in this, because there could not be. Because there are 50 questions that we should agree on, and that is obviously not possible. So I am thinking that you deliberately chose this form of this proposal. You don't really care what we think about that. He doesn't care what we say about that either. It's a kind of humiliating situation, but I don't think it's going to bring anyone's case forward. I think that the laws that are being born here, at this time, will be a memento of their own power adoration, a memento of their bulge of power. We'll remember him. I mentioned it was a salad law. Not just any salad law. Technically, from scythe to revelry, until wealth is squandered, everything is in this fifty stages that this bill contains. Despite the fact that it contains various proposals in such a wide range, the general justification is only about the abolition of the legal institution for decisions with a contingent effect, which is almost all it deals with. I remember, in 2016-17, when this bill was in front of Parliament, we had already indicated that this would be incomprehensible, confusing and incomprehensible to the population. For a generally prepared, intelligent person, this is practically the legal institution and its conduct, and the experience of this is incomprehensible. Mr. Secretary of State has also mentioned in some thoughts that this has been a problem for him, too, as a graduate lawyer. We also indicated that this would be a problem. And now, after three or four years, we're going to realize that, and we're going to try and change that. What we need to think about is that thousands of citizens were running around after receiving such a letter. Thousands of citizens ran to various lawyers to find out what happened, what I have to do now. I'm sure you're aware that running around like this isn't free. We can safely conclude that you have done damage to Hungarian citizens, knowingly. I would like to address some of the elements of these fifty stages. One of them was that the original proposal was a provision for the preliminary opinion of the Protection Committees which significantly reduce the rights and exercise of the powers of the mayors. I think it was their first attempt to rewrite the municipal elections. The municipal elections were won in many places by the opposition candidate. It was an attempt to rewrite these results in some way. I have found that the fundamental outrage that was in this regard is that of you, in the words of Congressman Vejkey, how was that, what did you do? [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: He's hooked up.]] Yeah, they're hooked up, so they didn't make it. But I see that they were able to react quickly enough, and now I see that they have not chosen this method, but are trying to make the municipalities financially impossible. They don't think about what they're doing. The one who hurts the local governments, who takes money from the local governments, takes it away from the people, your constituents. They won't understand what you're doing. And when they realize it, I think they'll know exactly how they'll have to vote next. The next thing I know, I'd like to deal with is 42. § related to City Park. You know, credibility plays a major role in this. That's a very nice word. That's a nice Hungarian word. He's expressing the whole point of the case. It's the authentic one who keeps the promises he made earlier. That'll be authentic. We're gonna give him credit for the next time he talks, if he promises anything, we'll believe it. You are not credible in this case. The Prime Minister's own words were quoted many times in this room. He promised not to do anything against the will of the Budapesters. Now we see here that they are actually preparing for a measure that is contrary to his own earlier statement, and contrary to the interests of the people, the people of Budapest. There has been a small debate here, as Mr Secretary of State has promised that this section is about investments in green areas and green areas, which is trying to regulate this. Mr. Secretary. Then why isn't that written down? If they had written that, there wouldn't be a debate. On the other hand, what's written? It says here that this legal institution, which is being exercised by the metropolitan government, is being overwritten as it is, in its entirety. Therefore, it is not described as implementing green areas and related investments. That's not what it says. It applies to all of these cases. General legislation has been passed, so what you are saying is uncredited, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm gullible, but even I don't believe what you're saying. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] The next stage is about theatres. Even if it's a deal, I can sense that you need everything. This reminds me of a folk tale; Mr. Secretary of State appreciates it when I make folktale motives. You must know the little ball's story. You know what I can think of about the baby ball and the story? You. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This has been said by several people. Dr. Balázs Orbán: Tell us, Congressman.]] You. He's got it all in him, he's got it all, he's got it all, he's got it all, he's got it all. What happened to him? It's cracked. I think that there is a danger for you. [[16.00]] The thing that kept me going after I read this bill is a matter of real estate. Many have also stated in very precise legal terms how and how this can be interpreted. The only thing I've noticed is that now it's not only that we're giving property free of charge, I'm not even looking at the fact that it's absolutely fidesz now, the whole force, who gets it, but that it's a accumulated debt, and this debt is being taken over by the state. I think the reason this story is dangerous is because the next time we get there, we're gonna pay for it so it's free. It is unacceptable for me to manage real estate, which I would prefer to call squandering. And here, a comment came up, and it's common that this was submitted at night. As I understand it, this bill is marked with the name of the Deputy Prime Minister, and it was submitted at night. It could be said that it may not be offensive, Mr. President, that it may have been shoveled together, because these 50 sections are not legislative, and this has been shoveled as it is. So in the future, I can only hope that the Deputy Prime Minister will spend his nights sleeping, and not proposing such proposals, because I think that we may all be better off. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-07-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the speech by the Member before me, especially the beginning, when he drew his attention to the situation we are in and the situation we are facing. So here we are now seeing such serious cases, deaths, tragedies, and heading our way. We know that in a few weeks we will be in a much worse situation, and that the country is facing a very shocking crisis of unprecedented size, by the way, all of Europe, obviously this is a global challenge, and we cannot yet say exactly how many families and how many families will be in extremely difficult and bad situations, otherwise, as many people have already done. You can really feel, especially when you see such legislation, when you see such proposals, when you see such government communication, that the government doesn't care, doesn't perceive this situation, and in this way I think it's very important to draw attention to it. The fact that we are here and we are working here is a service, and everyone is obviously performing some kind of service is just the tragedy when it turns out that, say, a proposal is made in the service of an economic interest, or a communication or a speech is born in the service of a party political interest. I think that everyone should feel personally responsible as State Secretary, Member, opposition and pro-government representative, that, in this situation, these issues, these aspects, must be put aside, and the only thing that we can now have in mind is the service of the nation's interests. Ladies and gentlemen, Here in the last few days, yesterday and today, it has been very often said by pro-government representatives that, in spite of the false cry of dictatorship by the opposition, Parliament is functioning. Now, I myself did not call for dictatorship, and I could not be accused of that; I was talking about the irresponsibleness that my fellow Member referred to, that in this situation, in such a critical situation, during a pandemic, when it reached the country, and there was an epidemic, there was no room for political battles. You have failed to develop a kind of national unity on this issue, and there is the confidence that we will be able to accept the proposals together on such issues, which would strengthen confidence within society, which would specifically strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the strict measures that are inevitable for defence. I really, really hope, although this may be a vain fantasy, that the political battle of the past few weeks will be revalued a little by the government, and perhaps they will try to move in some kind of consensual direction. Obviously, the experience of the past few weeks does not show that this is real, but obviously hope dies last. Fellow Members! The fact that Parliament works, we are here, and we are arguing about a very, very wide range of legislative proposals, I think it is proof that the opposition was telling the truth. You said that it is not possible to set a time limit for this delegation law, regulation governance, because it is feared that Parliament will not be able to work. Well, compared to that, the Parliament works, and we ourselves, opposition representatives, prove that we are actively involved in the work of the Parliament. It was also instructive that during the debate Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that he did not ask for authorisation for three months, 90 days, because he does not know how long this epidemiological situation will last. That is true, but today we have learned the details of the government's economic measures, and, for example, Minister Palkovics has announced, and we have seen in the regulation that the government intends to create a wage supplement for three months on short working hours; I do not understand, I do not understand the contradiction. So if the Prime Minister thinks it is uncertain what the epidemiological situation will be in three months' time, then why take measures only three months ahead in case of the most difficult situation for people, in case of protecting jobs? I don't understand. From budgetary sources, we have already discussed this today, there is plenty of room to address these issues. Well, I think it is a very serious problem, too, considering the bill, which many of my fellow Members have already said, that it contains a lot of elements that are the subject of a debate that cannot be postponed at all, it contains a lot of particularly harmful measures, and also measures that limit, let us say, the actions and possibilities of local governments, which is obviously an extremely wrong political direction. In particular, in relation to the reduction of bureaucracy and administrative changes, my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm gave a very, very good assessment, and it was indeed acknowledged here that serious government errors, mistakes have been made, and it has been acknowledged that this has caused a great deal of damage to society, which can also be expressed in financial terms. What we don't understand here is what the government would learn from this. My fellow Members have said that it is very nice to be apologized or not apologized, but they recognise the bad decisions, the wrong legislation, the fact that they have launched a process in the wrong direction and are trying to correct it in the meantime, it is positive, but we do not see the correction. It has also been said here that social and professional debates, the ripening of proposals in this way, are being missed, and that is why they run into such serious mistakes, and we do not see how they want to correct this when we are talking about a bill, a salad law, on which social consultation has also failed. So I don't see how they try to avoid these mistakes, how they try to learn from their own mistakes. I do not wish to repeat what my fellow Members have said here. I do not understand why measures to reduce the functioning of the local authorities, the decision-making competence of the municipalities, are now before the Parliament, but we can also talk about this in relation to the supervisory committees supervising the operation of the theatres. Why did you have to bring this in now and find out who the government is, let's say, the political brainstormer of this? Does Deputy Prime Minister Semen have this proposal? Who has the political will to discuss this here in an epidemiological situation? Similarly, my fellow Members spoke a great deal about the registration of birth as a non-registrar. Why do we have to talk about this now? Was there a proposal from the operational tribe to the government that we should talk about this now, or did one of the members of the government have the idea that at this time, at this sacred moment, the Parliament would have to discuss this? I want an answer to that question. This bill is very, very wide-ranging, it has a lot of topics that cannot be brought here by force. This, too, has already been addressed by my fellow Members, and I do not wish to take up time. There is a question of declaring national memorials, it is very positive, I think these are important measures, but I am not sure that they should be dealt with now, but these are important measures. In this context, for example, an amendment to the Mining Act was also proposed. We do know that there are specific cases, specific emergencies, that has already been mentioned, but what I don't understand is why, for example, if they had the energy to bring this into this bill, at least why they are not trying to deal with specific emergencies and specific critical problems that fit into the issue. Now I am thinking that this proposal is about the fact that in a five-mile radius of a national memorial, open-air mining cannot be carried out; let's say, I do not know why it is possible to do so, because it would, in my view, endanger these national memorial sites. If we look at the examples that can be seen in the country, for example, they want to set up a uranium mine under residential areas, then why there is no sensitivity on the part of the government, why they do not generate such rules. Or I can give you a specific example: in the inner area of Pécs there is a huge crater, the recultivation of a former surface exploration. I have spoken on several occasions in this Parliament, which now has specific environmental risks. We know how air pollution, the dust, increases the chances of the coronal virus causing serious complications. For example, this would be an immediate action by the government to take care of these processes, not to outsource these tasks to private companies, but to increase control, and to reduce the risk of people becoming seriously ill or possibly losing their lives because of the high concentration of low-quality air and particulate matter. So I don't understand the connection. If such amendments were to come before the Parliament, I could interpret it in some way. And what my fellow Members have also talked about a lot: the withdrawn amendment to the disaster protection law would have wanted to address a specific problem. [[16.10]] József Polics was the polyhistor, if I could live with so many jokes, who recognized the situation that in an emergency, in an extraordinary situation, he could live with the authority of the body of representatives himself; and he had already resigned from the announced board meeting of the mayor of Komló; he alone accepted the city's budget, and even with a mayor's decision he dropped the honor fee of the Members to zero, which did not make much sense, let's face it. But I can tell you that this mayor consulted the notary before him, who, on the other hand, consulted the government office, so asked for a resolution and received the resolution that, yes, this is how the disaster protection law should be interpreted, in this situation it is indeed necessary to do so, and not just to do so, but to do otherwise, so that the mayor cannot entrust decisions to the board. This problem, of course, has become a huge scandal, and we have also signalled to the government at various discussions, and now we are there, if I can understand these discussions correctly, that it is true from the current legislative environment that we should not have done so, so that the mayor has expanded beyond this possibility of action, and that he can exercise these rights on his own as regards the measures relating to the epidemiological control, and for example there is no ban on asking for Commission resolutions. Compared to that, I do not understand why you should point to the opposition when such an amendment has come in that county defense committees need such a five-day approval. There was a debate on this, it was a very legitimate debate, it was indignation, it was positive that it was withdrawn. Here, the main issue of opposition criticism was that such an unnecessary five-day delay might be in the system. Now, I do not understand why, if the legislation is not quite clear now, and you have now confirmed in your speech that it is not quite clear why you are not dealing with this situation, why you are not going to put a line into the relevant disaster protection law, that this mayor's one-man competence in a particular emergency is specifically about emergency, defence decisions and requires proportionate measures, as it has been formulated in the Powers Act. We could handle this problem, and then we could take a lot of these cases out of it. So I think that we should not point the finger at the opposition, that we simply have to do legislation properly, and then there will be no such abuses and there will be no such problems. And the question is whether it will result, for example, in this situation, that mayor of hops acted in accordance with the tacit guidance of the Government Office, how such conflicting opinions on the interpretation of such a legislative environment could happen on the part of a given government. And then I would like to ask you one more thing, I have already tried to create a debate with Mr Secretary of State on cooperation. It has already been said from my fellow Member Bencsik that tomorrow the issue of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project will be on the agenda, and here, for example, I think that a gesture could be exercised, and a spark of national cooperation could be shown. Forints 60 billion, 63.5 billion, to be exact, which is included in this year's budget of this big project. With various calculations, we can get to HUF 60 billion very quickly, but the government will take HUF 35 billion away from the local government by withdrawing the car tax, but otherwise all other measures affecting local governments, and in other respects, we can say that the government's measures have applied a restriction of about HUF 60 billion to local governments only since the announcement of the emergency. Fellow Members! The development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line cannot be justified in any way from the point of view of Hungarian national interests. We know that Lőrinc Mészáros's companies can make 300 billion out of this project, it is a 1,000 billion-dollar project in total, but no document from the government has been able to prove that this is in any way beneficial to Hungarian people. This project has to be paid by Hungarian taxpayers in several years, a thousand billion forints. Who can say on the government's side that this thousand billion forints is for this? Is this what it is to be spent on, the development of a railway line that does not require any real transport or traffic? And it is indeed not only 63.5 billion forints planned for this year, but the thousand billion that should be spent in this situation, at the beginning of a very deep crisis, on the recovery of the Hungarian economy, should be used to help Hungarian people and Hungarian families in an extremely difficult situation. I believe that in the context of such a symbolic bill, which will be debated tomorrow, the government could prove that it really feels its own responsibility and that its actions are guided by the intention of serving the Hungarian nation. I will be curious about tomorrow's debate, and I still look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply that if he is serious about the need for cooperation, you personally and the representatives of the Hungarian Government will allow this to happen. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has applied for a speech, independent. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2020-04-07-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I feel like a Stanisław Lem-novela. I seriously think it's absurd that while there's a real epidemic out there, people are dying, people need health care, others fear for their existence, others fear for their existence, yet again there's nothing to fear, because they've eliminated their existence during the epidemic, we're here to talk about what you're raving about, what you're stealing, what you're encrypting, and who you're taking revenge on. I really don't know what you're looking at in this country, you're wandering around here, I don't know how many pro-government MPs are one or two or three, at least social distance, or how to translate into Hungarian, they're being followed; so, here they are, we're talking about these things. What happened? And no one should doubt that this is what happened. You have taken the action on the epidemic, and you have taken the measures into regulation governance, so that the Hungarian Parliament, which is an institution of choice for this country, cannot speak to it, at most on Facebook, or if some propaganda television comes and asks for its opinion, and here we are talking about laws aimed at circumventing the state's wealth, concealing corruption shops, abuse power, and, of course, the unmissable fight of culture goes on, and some groups still have one to learn their place in this country. So, gentlemen, I think that this is completely unacceptable, and not with us, with regard to the opposition, but with regard to the whole country. If I asked the Fidesz voters what you wanted, what you wanted Parliament to talk about now, I don't think any of them would have told you to hit the transgender people. I don't think there's such a fidesz voter, I'm serious. What would they have said? They would have told me how to give money to poor people, how to make a pay bonus, how to have a family allowance plus, a lot of sensible measures. But these things? Who's telling you these things? I'd like to know who broke this salad law, and I'd like to know the names of those people. [[Trustful Dezső: No one.]] I'm not sure I believe it was a man who put all this together, even if he wrote his name on it. We really should start with the proposal, which is what my trusted fellow Member said, and it is absolutely right, because it belongs here, from which they backed out. I have just mentioned that there is a regulation government in this country, and here is the Hungarian Parliament, where we cannot practically approve what you are saying in the wake of the regulations. You wanted to set up non-chosen defence committees for prior approval of decisions on the municipalities. So that's what you wanted to do. Now, it's quite clear what this game is about, it's about how the Prime Minister hasn't been able to deal with the results of the municipal elections to this day, he just can't stand the fact that some local governments don't jump as hard as he whistles. That is what this proposal was about. How you backed out of this one morning to about the same night, tell me, but in any case, I think that you are punishing the local governments during the epidemic is also a very insidious move, because whoever punishes the local governments is punishing the people. Because the municipalities are on the ground, not writing such proposals, but taking care of the elderly, carrying masks, helping families, performing a lot of public service tasks that are essential. So, the thing is, you're not helping here, but you're taking what you have, it's totally unacceptable. For me, from their entire crisis management, or I don't know what to call that activity, it seems like there's no money in this country; it's like now, when there's trouble, the government has nowhere to go. I respectfully ask you why there's nowhere to go. Because in the last ten years this parliament has always been loud on the part of the opposition because of the money being stolen and the wealth being carried; that there is the Lőrinc Mészáros, who has practically become a billion dollars in practically a few years; then there is the son-in-law of the Prime Minister, who is what to say? He is also not a poor man, nor has he been rich from anything, he has been rich from our money. [[16.20]] There are these people, NER knights, oligarchs, and they practically robbed us, and now that we're in the middle of the pandemic, I really need to read these suggestions, which are more about how to take what's left of them. This is a classified case of free robbery, because you're here not only against the country, but against life, because I know my fellow citizens are in intensive care at the hospital, and I know you're not testing them, and I also know why you're not testing them. And you know why they're not being tested. And I want to talk about it here in the Hungarian Parliament, and not about how the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society of all kinds receives real estate, as well as the Maltese and the Church. Let's take a look at it for a second because I read it. It is a beautiful explanation, and my fellow Members have not said so, so I will tell you. Here in this so-called public foundation, which is a virtually fidesze foundation, the justification is that they want to invest in energy efficiency on these properties, they want to replace windows on buildings, they need the owner's permission, so it's more practical to give them the whole thing and then they can change windows. What's going on, gentlemen? What's going on? Oh, and then, indeed, as my colleague Vadai said, we also learned that there were debts to this foundation. [[Intercom from opposition lines.]] I'm sorry, it may not have been Ágnes Vadai, it may have been another Member, we've been here for hours, thank you, but the point is that the Hungarian National Asset Manager was in fact in debt to this foundation. It's really hard for me to talk, because it's a brazen thing to do here in the middle of a pandemic that I can't accept. And now they stand up with such a jovial face, they say it's good and good, and they talk about such bureaucratic things for a long time, but here's the thing, this theft is itself, and it's legit. There's this big bullshit about what you want in City Park. Say that you have a problem that Budapest has an opposition mayor who is quite good at his job, and you do not like that, that this is the way it is, and you want to go through with it, and you want to mess with the leadership of the capital. Say that. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State, you've started to say that the House of Hungarian Innovation and the Városligeti Theatre and the new National Gallery are not affected by this, but they want to save the green areas here. Well, gentlemen, I'm green and you're not green. That was 10 years ago, and I think it will be in 20 years. You're practically vaccinated against everything that's green, you're killing trees, you're destroying rivers, you're destroying this country, you're not dealing with social issues. You're building Paks and you're encrypting the Belgrade-Budapest railway line. You are not green, your color is orange, and the essence of your governance is corruption. I didn't say that, but one of your advisors confessed. Now why do you want to tell me such a healing text here in the middle of a pandemic in the Hungarian Parliament that you are concerned about the green surface? The hell they're worried about green surfaces. It is practically, here too the justification is very interesting, it is worth reading everywhere, it is said that, in the absence of a law, there should be an impossibility of works connected to each other. That's basically what they're saying. That's what they're trying to build for. But then let's move on, the Kulturkampf has to go, and three out of five of the theatre's supervisory board would be delegated by the minister. Now, if it's not two-thirds, but there's a simple majority, which means they want the theaters under government supervision, that's what it is. They desperately try to keep their hands on culture, as the authoritarian regimes do. That's what you want. Salad law, it's all about what I'm talking about, and it's all about this environment. Let's keep moving. Well, here's a completely absurd part. Really, you explain to me why it protects the Hungarian population more against the coronal virus epidemic if you spot me with the sex changers. It's net evil. You know, I think that KDNP Pisti told KDNP Joci that you, watch what else we do to get these people more involved, say something. Well, there's these transgender people, what kind of thing is it that they change their sex, it's not in our worldview. But I'm sorry, there are people in this country, there are people who change sex, and I'm there, and you and KDNP and Fidesz and MSZ, we're all different. And I'm green, and I know that a community is always immune and right and strong when it's different. This is the essence of our existence, this planet, that there are many people and many living beings, many thoughts, many ideas, and they must learn to cooperate. But you can't cooperate, you're gonna be in the middle of a pandemic, and you're gonna start putting a pass like this into a salad law just to screw one more on these people's self-esteem. They always want to ban reality. Are there any same-sex couples? Well, let's make sure they don't call themselves family, then they won't be. Or there is genderideology, for example, which is a very simple thing, a study of social sex, how social roles have changed over historical times. Let's ban it, not teach it in science, then it doesn't exist. Are the sex changers here? Well, we forbid them to make this official, and then they won't be. That's how you think. But reality cannot be banned, it always comes to mind, as this virus has come to face, and here it is, and it should be solved. Instead, and I will never forgive you for putting aside all the terrible mischiefs, the thefts, the whole fidesz attitude to the whole world, instead of putting in such laws, and not one, because it is one, but sixteen, sixteen of them, all after the Prime Minister who has demanded full power to himself, who said that this should be because Parliament will not be able to meet. Well, we're here to meet. Then we could talk about more normal things than human revenge and theft, that's what I think. I'm sure that's what my voters expect, but I think it's yours, too. I'd like to add one more. Tomorrow the Belgrade-Budapest railway will be encrypted for 10 years, and at all this week, this three-day week is about discussing these laws. Look, you can do this with the Hungarian Parliament, you can try to push down people's throats what's going on here, but that's not gonna work, and that's not gonna work. This virus, which is extremely small and invisible, has come before you. With all due respect, with all due respect, I ask you to stop stealing and start dealing with the epidemic, but with all your strength, let the Hungarian Parliament sit down, but in such a way that we have to talk about good laws. We can do this digitally. I've submitted a fundamental law amendment in order to allow this whole story to go digital. I would like to ask you to use, for once in your life, the power to do what is necessary to serve the people, to put this on the agenda in the appropriate committee, and finally to make the Hungarian Parliament ready to act effectively in the interests of citizens in the epidemic. That's the one thing I'm asking of you. This whole thing isn't over yet. We have months ahead of us, and I don't know how much, because I can't see into the future, but you can't see. Let's get ready to work. I do not hope, by the way, that you will turn back from this path, but I just want to say that on the opposition side here I will do everything I can to ensure that the Hungarian Parliament and the community of Hungarian politicians are able to defend the Hungarian population. It will not depend on me, and as I look at opposition contributions and proposals and speeches, it will not depend on the opposition. You, on the other hand, have a lot riding on you. They've got two thirds. Two-thirds is a terrible responsibility. If you're not using it for what it's for, then I think you're committing a historical crime, but a crime you'll never be able to make up for. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-114	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-115	Mr President, Dear House, From the salad law before us, many points have been highlighted by my opposition fellow Members, who are certainly having disagreements over certainisms, there are certain matches between us that need to be boxed, and we will also fight these matches in due time after a war situation. I see that the opposition side has grasped the stakes of all this, and we have now been able to postpone or progress these footballs and games a little later. We didn't let them go. We just got the weight of what the Secretary of State is smiling on. It's not funny, Mr. Secretary. [[Tamás János Schanda: I'm not smiling about it!]] It is your job to smile, but to give the Hungarian Parliament the respect that when an opposition representative [[János Schanda: Don't joke, Congressman.]] raises a subject, you come up with a meaningful reaction to it, not just in a closed word, not just at the end of the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Don't joke!]] My point is this. The Liget project will be frozen, the available resources will be transferred to the disease-related defense fund and the lying stopped. [[16.30]] You have announced Europe's 16th weakest wage replacement package in the last 24 hours. Fifteen countries have already begun, and without exaggerating, we can say that almost all have invented more effective forms than you have come up with. The fact that 70 percent of them are made up together with the employer has not yet been found out how much of this is done by the Hungarian state, together with the employer, 70 percent, in certain limited cases, if, let us say, the employee is not at home, because he is not at home, but explain this to employees of entire sectors who have become unspeakable, they cannot now be elsewhere than at home, for example because the child is being taken care of while the other family member is working. You know, family-friendly government. It would begin from here to understand what family concept means during a war period, Mr. Secretary of State. Or tell that to people, catering, tourism workers, guides, language teachers, photographers who are unable to do the same work as normal times of peace, because there is no physical possibility of doing so. Therefore, I call on you to urgently group the funds remaining in the Liget project, biodom and other madness into the epidemiological defense, and do the same with your own mass of resources relating to the Budapest-Belgrade railway line. I do not agree that you should be accused of corruption of between 600 and 800 billion dollars here. There's plenty of corruption in the story, there's plenty of tens and hundreds of billions, but I don't want to go into a number war. I would like to see the tangible amounts in the Hungarian employment protection fund. I want you to group at least one or more of the ten billion unwarrantedly bulked, pouring into your public life. I don't expect people to get kicked out, make it impossible, but don't tell me that a hundred billion-dollar scale is needed for the industrial lies that we normally defeat in courtrooms, more than 200 times just the righty. I'm sure the others could tell you about that. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]] That in courtrooms, you're not as brave a warrior as you are here, and now you're paying me like military officers because you lie, you're an industrial liar, and you're running a machine like this. Then be brave in this, at least some of the funds allocated to the lie factory will be put into the defense. Similarly, we can say this about the amounts allocated to government communication. But I find the two grossest items there in addition to the Liget project because it is the subject of a narrow debate that is being presented with regard to banks and multinationals. We've seen very little in the last thirty years, a government so serene to banks and multinationals. You guys in the top three are definitely there. Stop smiling and count. The parties are expected to hold 50 percent. We're up to it, so be it. The parties should hold 50 percent of their budget. My fellow Member, how many percent of the banks are in place? Are you talking about forty billion? What was the record profit of the banking sector at Central European level during the last measured period? Over 600 billion, my fellow Member, 600 billion! One-tenth of what these companies don't pay for defense. The parties pay, of course, 50. I can see the political intentions behind it, but it is well that we are ahead of it, but then let there be public burdens, fellow Members. What about the multisectoral sector? They are talking about some billions, and the Hungarian-owned companies' deposits are included in this, while only foreign-owned multi-enterprises do not generate profits from Hungary every year in the order of a thousand billion. Where's the public cargo? So my request is for you to man yourselves with less smiles, let's get together. I support you in all the constructive, sensible proposals, even in this truncated, braked-foamed, some 70 percent, some I think I will support you in a zero-percent proposal because I have no choice but to do this by thinking of more than 40,000 Hungarians who have lost their jobs since the outbreak of the epidemiological situation. My concept of the Hungarian Fund for the Protection of Jobs would also be remembered. Anyone who has had a verifiable income in the last six months and can present it will receive 80% of his income lost, regardless of whether he has a job or has lost his job. Let us finally do what is expected of you in the Hungarian Parliament for the sake of the Hungarian people. Hungarian people are not interested in flirting and face-to-face and teaching each other how to talk to each other. I don't care either, which is why I am so lenient to you, that I don't even care about the bottom of the line, because we are in a war situation, my fellow Members. My wish is to try to meet these challenges. I would like to share with you that, as a Member of Parliament, I am ashamed of the quality of the style that you have done in this House over the past few years. The secondary shame applies to all of us for the style of the last few days, because a responsible, a really strong government doesn't behave like this, doesn't lecture, doesn't show face, doesn't stretch out in a wartime, is looking for partners, allies, sets aside theisms, helps people, doesn't lie in parliament about doctors, doesn't say they have protective equipment, while these people on social networks are begging for protective equipment. So return to reality. Help real people with their real problems. I'll be there, and I'll always give you my vote of support, if you really want to do it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-116	Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-07-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add a few words to my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey. You may have noticed in the last ten years that a member of the government cannot make any decisions without the blessing of Viktor Orbán. Therefore, when it is written in a law that it is a committee formed by a minister or a minister, it must be understood by Viktor Orbán. That is why I said that even in order to create a commercial unit over 400 square meters, it is his decision, because without his blessing, the minister will certainly do nothing in Hungary. I would also like to say to the speaker who wrote the text of my fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, that if he knew a little about my fellow Member, he would know that the word "tangled" was not the use of Imre Vejkey, and he seemed a little surprised when he had to say it. So if someone is writing a text to my honourable fellow Member, at least do it by using words adapted to his personality. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that, in recent years, this word has been justified in the face of politics, since many times the political department does not work for our fellow citizens, not for the Hungarian people, but when we use this word to hang and hang each other. By the way, I must say that we see the result of this now, because, as I have repeatedly said in my previous speeches in Parliament and in the press, who governs from a proud and ruling position, biology and God are excluded from the calculation. Well, now we've got it! So I ask everyone, whether they are pro-government or opposition representatives, that although we often have disagreements, I do not like very much what the other person is doing, but humbly, in the service of the difficulties of the epidemic, we should be respectful of each other and work so that we can set an example for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-118	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-07-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to talk about the fact that, after I had done a rather long expo, I tried to reveal as many professional reasons as possible, and then I listened to your speeches for a long time, while practically the whole political community and the people in the room and those in the room in person received only reproach, and when we heard no abusive, personal sentences, then there was a call for cooperation and openness. These sentences followed each other in turns. I did not ask for a floor, although all the Members, ladies and gentlemen with whom we talk about legislative proposals know that I am usually ready to debate at every moment, but I did not ask for a floor before the end of the debate because I felt that the vast majority of arguments were of no quality. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We made suggestions!]] Respect the exception, and I will specifically mention it. I think they were not real questions, they were not real, they were constructive proposals, and they were not even ideas expressed in the context of the bill, but political accusations, so it is not necessary to take time in the debate in particular. [[16.40]] But now that I have Mr President's trust and patience, as much as the previous speeches have deviated from the original subject of the bill, I would like to differ and talk about the situation that has arisen, first of all, after responding to what was said as a constructive proposal in connection with the bill. One is that, as Mr Crusade Leader read it, I really said about the behaviour of opposition representatives to explain the inexplicable. That's what we see today, a week later, nothing's changed, nothing new under the sun, you're still trying to explain the unexplainable. The coronal virus epidemic has spread to Hungary, and the government has made it clear from the very first moment that it will do everything in its power to protect people's lives, health and jobs. All resources are available for this, and this has also been made clear from the very first moment. Fearing that we cannot limit the spread of the epidemic, we have declared an emergency, taking into account the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and after the expiry of the 15 days available in the event of an emergency, we wanted to ask you to contribute as provided for by the Fundamental Law to extend the scope of measures taken in the event of an emergency. We also said that we would like the functioning of the Parliament not to be questioned, that the Parliament could operate continuously, but we cannot guarantee that. However, we have put a legislative structure on the table in which you, by you, mean that the majority of Parliament can at any time withdraw the authority that it has given to the government in the context of defence. So if Mr Kereszt wishes to debate this mandate, then present a bill and this House will discuss it. Submit dozens of legislative proposals on this, and then the House will continue to talk about it. That is why the House has decided to maintain the system of speeches before the agenda. We were sitting here this morning talking about the fight against the virus in general. We did the same yesterday, and we did the same in the hour of immediate questioning, the duration of which has been extended. And, for example, just to give you the signs of cooperation, the government meeting tomorrow, when one of the most important issues of control against the virus, the extension, tightening or relaxing of the curfew, is to be decided, which is why we invited Mayor Gergely Christmas and the President of the County City Association, Károly Sita, to give their opinion, because it must be a joint decision. And we are constantly coordinating with the Coronary Virus Control Act. I was at the talks where we accepted most of the opposition proposals. It is true that we have not adopted the specific time limit, because we have established a system that the majority of Parliament can withdraw this mandate at any time, and otherwise no one knows what will happen to this Parliament. I hope that Parliament's quorum and capacity to meet will be maintained throughout, and that the government is working on this in the context of the fight against the virus. But from the very first moment, we have made it clear that legislation on virus control and general legislation must be separated. That's what the Crown Virus Protection Act said, which, of course, you denied, but that's basically what it is. That, in connection with the control of the epidemic, human life, health, economic difficulties, can be dealt with in an accelerated procedure with immediate responsiveness. The proposals which are not closely linked, indirectly, because there is a direct link in most cases, but are not closely linked to the control of the coronal virus, as long as Parliament is able to meet in accordance with normal procedures, with full respect for its representatives and opposition rights. This was the proposal that you have given us nothing but filth, political attacks on the basis of political gain, and finally, based on your own power interests, you have not supported this proposal in a unique way in Europe, because in all other European countries, the opposition has supported the fight against the epidemic. And right now, the negative consequences of this, the consequences of their own voters not agreeing with you, are trying to fix it and try to explain the inexplicable. However, the government is forced to work, the disease is being controlled, and life protection, health protection and economic protection are also taking place. Don't joke about the laws and the resources in which you think they should be used to control the epidemic. Well, where would we be now? I thought I couldn't hear you well when Mr.James brought it to Parliament on Monday to use EU resources to control the epidemic. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what you said!]] Yes, you can. To spend the 5-10-15 billion on this. What are you talking about? ! I am sorry about what the Hungarian Prime Minister announced only to alleviate the economic impact and to keep jobs, it is 20% of GDP. The 20 percent remodeling is HUF 9000 billion! And you're here to talk about a few billion forints? That we shouldn't give up this property because the property... I don't know what they said about the property. Is that supposed to buy the ventilator from China? I'm sorry, but intellectually, that's an invaluable argument. By the way, we continue to seek the most extensive cooperation on the health aspects of the control of the epidemic, and we count on everyone to define this framework. I've told you many times that you have a responsibility. There are voters who vote for you, they are your voters. You can do two things, or you can try to piss them off, but it is not easy to piss off Hungarian people, so they probably won't succeed, but you can try to prank them against the government. Or they can try to convince them that in these difficult situations, in order to protect human life and health, we should unite, put political debates in the background, respect, non-compliance, no matter what we call it, we should stop and support the fight against the epidemic. Because it doesn't matter what the Prime Minister's name is, if the spread of the epidemic is slowed down by a curfew, for example, that curfew must also be voted in favour of dialogue voters, MSZP voters, DK voters, LMP voters, better voters, independent voters and pro-government voters. But the position you have taken from one moment to the next is the position of total denial, and the position of total political trenching, which has been ectant examples of the comments that have been made on today's bill. I would like to say two more things in general. One is that when some Members who are no longer in the room are hearing a bill relating to such an administrative transformation, it is said that they are not acting properly and not on time for political reasons, and for many other reasons government officials and municipal and administrative workers, and that is why this bill must be brought forward, I believe that this is an unacceptable argument, and I must reject this whole approach on their behalf. They're not party soldiers, they don't work on party logic. So when they're attacked, they're not hurting me, and they're hurting not government representatives, but normal people who can't go to home office at this time, because the state has to be maintained. So when you say such things in connection with the adoption of an administrative law, you insult people who work in the service of the state and the public in such a time of distress. I don't think they deserve that. That I deserve it, or that the government representatives deserve it, is one thing, but it doesn't matter whether we deserve it or not, we have a tolerance obligation. But they don't have a tolerance obligation, and they're not here to protect themselves. The same is true of pensioners. I'm sorry, I've been sitting here in Parliament, and the opposition has consistently demanded, in practically every second speech, that the real value of pensions should be maintained and that a pension increase should also be made in this situation. I think we're gonna have to do the pension increase. And I'm not going to bring back the 13th month's pension that you've led out, which you've taken away from the people. I also think that a pension increase is necessary, because it also helps to protect against the epidemic, to reduce the economic impact, because the money that we can give to people we can give to pensioners will appear as consumption in the Hungarian economy. [[16.50]] So it will also serve to restore the functioning of the Hungarian economy, and then you will be on the proposal to amend the administrative laws, because in this very context, which has now been raised, the issue of pensions, and we have announced that the 13th month pension will be reinstated. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Next year!]] They immediately switched from the last two weeks or three weeks of rhetoric, and they say how irresponsible it is to raise a pension! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Yes, we are so irresponsible that, on the one hand, we think that jobs should be protected and, on the other hand, we think that people should be given money [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't joke!]] precisely because of the effects of the epidemic, they are losing their jobs. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Balázs, you have a passion for persecution, or why do you say such things? Don't get paranoid.]] But, I'm sorry, and it's a good thing from the records that we have these excellent, internationally renowned colleagues who record what has been said here by shorthand, you can read back what has been said. Everything I've just reacted to has been said. The thing is, you don't even think about what you're saying. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You can't argue with yourself!]] When you're dirty, so you don't even think about it, they just slip out, those words! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Those words are slipping out. But it's still my duty to stand up for these people on the one hand and try to make things right as much as possible. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then why didn't you dare argue?! Why do you react subsequently in an answer that can no longer be responded to?!]] If we are speaking specifically in the context of the bill, and I would say this to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, in the framework of the absolutely constructive comments, thank you for her constructive comments, we are certainly not infallible, but just to clarify, I did not say that the legal institution of the dependent decision and the public policy goal behind it were wrong, so let us not throw the child out with the bath water, because you poured out the child along with the bath water in many speeches. The point and purpose of the pending decision and the introduction of the sommal procedure were to move forward, on the one hand, in deciding on administrative matters within the deadline, in order to radically reduce the number of administrative cases decided beyond the deadline, and, if this is the case, the e-customer should not have to pay a procedural fee or a so-called Igsolg fee in such cases in accordance with previous rules. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] This was the subject of the amendment submitted in 2015. What point did you disagree with then? I will look at the report, and I will honestly admit this in 2015, so that I did not follow the debate of 15 but I will now look at the part of the measure which is thus not eligible. All we said was that we brought in a new legal institution in 2015, four years ago, and to make it clear what is going on here, to make it clear what rights citizens have when the authority fails to comply with the procedural deadline, so we had to start by developing a system in which they knew about their rights and then they could exercise their rights. After four years, after considering the effects of this, citizens have become accustomed to this institution, or at least accepted, or have run the circles that Mr.Hissible said, it is true that the budget that now means that these decisions must be delivered on a paper basis, millions of pieces, is simply not worth it, and therefore, in addition to maintaining the logic of the legal institution itself, we ask you to vote for Green, XXI. As a model of the century, these pending decisions are no longer required to be delivered to citizens on a paper basis, but this can also be done by electronic means. And when I tell you this, then I see you saying, "Well, yes, we told you four years ago." What did they tell you? Did they say four years ago that the government does not need to take and propose to Parliament measures that serve to resolve administrative matters on time? Well, I don't get it. The other is the salad law. I've dealt with codification, constitutional issues in my civil life before, so I understand exactly the distaste for salad laws, and I'm quite understanding about these grudges. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, not always!]] not always, no doubt [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] For example, this will be one of the times that the congresswoman said that I do not understand. Because as a codificator, I ask that if you were on the government and I worked as a mere government official in a ministry, and one of the political leaders would tell me to amend administrative procedures for a number of groups of cases, and I would practically bring in half a novel amendment to Parliament and prepare it, but there should be no salad law, so don't touch any more legislative proposals, then I wouldn't be able to solve it. [[Car-Cake Olivio interrupts.]] [[Car-Cake Olivio interrupts.]] I'd have to say, I'm sorry, there's no such codification solution. (Car-Cake Olivio interrupts.) The essence of the administrative procedure is that its rules are not in a law, but in a system of rules, there are exceptions in sectoral laws, special procedures, it is a complex system. I would say in advance, and I apologize to the Member in advance, because if we come before Parliament on administrative procedural issues, we will, unfortunately, always come with salad laws, because this issue cannot be dealt with in any other way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'll tell you how. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] The case of rooms over 400 square meters under construction falls out of the hands of the notary into the hands of the government offices. I would just like to underline once again what we have discussed in a previous debate about the issue of an administrative authority. So when the notary acted earlier, he did not act as the authority of the municipality, but acted as the authority of the State, so if the municipality, the mayor, the body of representatives, any committee in these matters, in which the notary acted either under the construction or under these special rules, he gave instructions to the notary whenever he tried to influence decisions, that is a crime. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That's right!]] I hope, therefore, that this has not happened, and you do not know this, because it would have raised serious problems and serious questions. So what we're doing is relocating specifically from one point in the public administration to another point in the public administration, after we've moved the general building issues. I think it makes sense that if the general building issues have been moved, then we should also put the intended modification issues which can be interpreted as a sub-area. In fact, it is a question of deciding environmental and municipal issues that have been judged by a committee acting as a weird administrative authority for years now, beyond the initial political debates, without virtually serious political debates and uproarings, and what they call, I don't know, in the prison jargon, a mall committee, and such a committee. This was also accepted by EU law, and it seems that the Hungarian legal system has accepted it, and it is a workable construction. We would also like to place these powers here. I don't think there's anything from the devil in this either, and it's mainly not related to the Minister's political guidance or the Prime Minister's political guidance, simply if we want to install settlement-view questions for such a mall committee, it can be done with such a codification solution. The Congresswoman, Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, mentioned that in the case of investments that are high in the national economy and investments that are of particular interest to the public. I understand why you say that, in the case of the cross-border part, on the one hand, an obligation is imposed on the owner of the neighbouring property, and then, if this agreement is not reached, we refer it to the court, and that is indeed, undoubtedly, a question which, although a guarantee element, drags the dispute away. I promise you that I will have your colleagues reconsider that you have a proposal that might avoid this prolonged dispute. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Just don't be dictatorial.]] Here you go. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Just don't be dictatorial. Dr. Balázs Orbán laughs.]] Yeah, yeah! [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I hope that's what the colleagues wrote down. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) Actually, the congresswoman suggested it, so we're free to go from here. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] Okay. [[17.00]] City Park. So in the context of the City Park case: I do not want to open that debate, we should open that debate at some point, we should have normal conversations about City Park, because the City Park case has gone wrong. An ectant example of this is that the proportion of green surfaces and built-in surfaces and areas is increasing or not increasing here. For years, this has been whining on two political sides, while it is quite clear that the proportion of green surfaces is also increasing, and the integration is also increasing, but both are increasing at the expense of concrete surfaces in the City Park. Because there are built-in parts in the City Park, there are green areas, and there are so-called intermediate areas, these concrete roads. And while it's true that we think it's right for innovation to create a center, we think it's right for children to build a theater in the City Park, we think it's right to do a ethnographic museum with a 7 percent undercover in the City Park. But I accept that the other political side says that this is wrong. And I would insist until the last moment that, by the way, to the detriment of concrete surfaces, increasing the proportion of green surfaces is a right decision. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I also understand the newly elected mayors and the Metropolitan Assembly. They couldn't do anything else because the ban on change is a general change ban under the law. So they order it, and then there's no grass. If weed doesn't grow, how fitting the Hungarian word is! Because of the change ban in City Park, that's not good. We don't want buildings, we want the grass to grow. I have read to you what investments are needed, and we ask for your support. There's no other way to fix this. It's the only way to fix it, with the ban on change being lifted. And finally, if I may, a brief sentence on the activities of the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. I believe that cultural, scientific and educational foundations should not be judged on a political basis, so I do not think that only opposition cultural institutions, only opposition scientific workshops, but only opposition education policy workshops should be supported. I don't think that's okay. I think they should get some support. I can't imagine what you might have with the search for communism, because listening to one or two speakers, I suspect that you and I may have a problem with the support of the House of Terror Museum. By the way, the reference to the debt doesn't mean it's a debt to the foundation. This is a previously refurbished amount, which has been properly used for another public-interest project, and the framework for this is fixed or the settlement issues are set out in the bill. So you don't have to cry wolf here either. It's a matter of defense committees. It is a little difficult for me to talk about this, because it is indeed a matter of not recommending an amendment to this section. I'm not a pro-government representative, but I'm a government secretary of state, so I can tell you that I'm asking myself, on the other hand, for the slip, to say that this is a pro-government matter, a pro-government thing that we're trying to solve. That's not true! I have received news that the DK mayor of Tatabánya has liquidated the local independent press with reference to this mandate. I am not saying that before the congressman starts laughing at the fact that only DK mayors lived or partly abused this mandate. I am not saying that there was no situation where the misuse of authorisation would not have occurred on the part of another political side. We made this bill just so that Mr Keresztes, too, clearly knows this aspect of the facts, that we have published a number of guidelines from the Prime Minister's Office in relation to how this mandate should be interpreted, and it is quite clear that this mandate is equally proportionate, equally necessary, in an equally targeted way. Of course, there are intermediate cases, because if, say, a municipality says that resources need to be transferred to protect or that some kind of cost savings should be made in order to have more resources for the control of the epidemic, then there may also be measures that appear to be not directly related to defence at first, although they provide the financial room for manoeuvre, which in such cases should be the mayor. That's why we asked for an extra filter, this would have been the defense committee that had five days. Obviously, they would not have been able to take a stand on all matters, nor should they have, but only in those cases where they could have given an opinion in terms of practicality, professionalism and professionalism in relation to the control of the epidemic, because they could have stopped certain exaggerations. You once again thought this was a violation of municipal rights. Then we said it was okay, we didn't want that. The normal route in connection with the legalisation of municipal decisions remains open. The government office is able to turn to court, and as a result of the dispute, decisions will be taken in these cases, which affect a number of areas and a number of political forces. We wanted to cut this short. You are not in favour of compromise again. We're willing to stand down. And the last point would be the birth certificate. The congresswoman, Mrs Bangón, has gone, but it is true that she does not understand either. The management of registers is a very complicated area of expertise. Unfortunately, he doesn't even know who created the background material in every context. The fact is that until now, there has been an uncertain legal situation; an uncertain legal situation in which, in connection with these requests and questions, supported by the opinion of psychologist, psychiatrist, gynecologist, urologist, that someone has started a non-altering surgery here, or that only his identity has changed, was a completely unregulated and uncertain situation in which the state should have taken a position on gender and identity issues. Moreover, after the adoption of the GDPR Regulation, all these special personal data should have been handled not only by the municipality, but by this committee, EMMI, by everyone. And there would have been ministry officials without any legal authority, and they should have given an opinion on identity issues. We think that this is not appropriate, because we are on the ground of freedom. From this point on, we have chosen the option of registering [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sorry, thank you for your patience, Mr President, I'm going to finish this, this is the last point, and from this point on, the Hungarian personal data and address register, each data in a single time state, records one perfectly clear situation as to whose biological sex is based on the primary sex and chromosome number. This is recorded by the Hungarian state, and from then on he will be able to conduct his registration tasks. The authorities can work with this data, and by the way, everyone does what they want on gender identity issues. [[The president's ringing again.]] I think that there is no more compromise, more pro-freedom, more normal, constructive solution to this situation. Sadly, however, we have heard from you in every context only personality, criticism and the opinion of the other side in complete lack of tolerance in these hours. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-07-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal to strengthen the role of churches in social and child protection benefits until closure. The government referral is T/9933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Philip, author of the item on the agenda. [[17.10]]
u2020-04-07-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The creation of social security for all Hungarian citizens is the state's responsibility under the Fundamental Law, and this is implemented by the state through a system of social institutions and social measures. As part of the institutional system, we provide nearly 100,000, 97.5 thousand people daily in social institutions providing personal care in Hungary. The Fundamental Law does not specify that the institutional system should only be maintained by the State, and the daily care of the needy citizens is currently provided by state, church, municipal and civil maintainers together. The bill essentially serves two purposes. On the one hand, it gives free ownership to the churches and the Hungarian Maltese Love Service Association of the residential institutions which have been in the use of these organizations for years and serve as a place of supply, and on the other hand, the bill clarifies the procedure for the future ecclesiastical duties. The legal environment already allows the transfer of ownership of state property to a church or church legal person, if this facilitates the fulfillment of his religious duties or the performance of the social tasks which he carries out, which he has taken over from the State, and is typically carried out. This free transfer shall be decided by a public decision of the Government. For social institutions and the elderly, disabled, psychiatric or addicted, they mean not only a place of care, care, but also an actual place of residence. The institution and its environment provide them with personal living space or recreation and, if necessary, development employment. In order to ensure this in the long term without delay, the transfer of social benefits to the institutions requires, in several cases, a derogation from certain provisions of the National Property or National Land Fund Act, which justifies specific regulation in this bill. Thus, the ownership of institutions related to social benefits will, on the one hand, close the process and the arrangement under which it has been put into use so far and, on the other hand, put it on a new basis for the future. With regard to the property associated with the benefits, which is the place and instrument thereof, the maintainer will now have the right of the owner in the course of his operation, which will facilitate an ever higher level and effective performance of his duties. This opens the way for a good farmer to be able to organise care with the church maintainer who takes the task. However, it is important that appropriate guarantee rules for the State will also be incorporated in the event that the church person who is now the owner no longer wishes or is unable to carry out the task to which he will be entitled in the event of the adoption of this bill. Dear Parliament, The social activity of churches is not a commitment based on modern legislation, but rather a natural continuation of their natural missions of thousands of years or hundreds of years. Churches are government strategic partners. The government therefore considers it important and has done a great deal in recent decades to promote the greater involvement of churches in individual social benefits. Appreciating countless examples of history, we can clearly say that without churches and charitable organisations, we cannot talk about institutionalised social care today, so the social significance of churches is unquestioned. In many countries of the world, it is a well-functioning model that a church or charitable organization takes over state tasks; the situation is similar on the European continent. In Hungary, the beginnings of social care were similar to Anglo-Saxon development, i.e. state intervention was limited to the establishment of legal frameworks in Hungary. Dear Parliament, So, on the big week, let me have a quote for you. From Pope Pius, because quite a lot of ecclesiastical actors sought a good solution in the area of social care, and 90 years ago he formulated the need to maintain the principle of subsidiarity: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The government's aim is to build a system based on historical traditions in which the need and the right of the subject are balanced. It is an important starting point in the area of social policy that responsibility should be primarily for the individual and for the family, and external assistance should be available if the individual and the family have done their best but cannot cope with the task. And it is a general principle that the problem should always be dealt with where it was created, so social care should also be where the individual and his family live. If the individual or the family or local organisations and the religious or other organizations living there are exhausted, the state will, of course, appear in a supportive and supportive manner. I think it is important to emphasise once again that the state's duty to provide social security, which is declared in the Fundamental Law, remains unchanged, can only be acquired by institutions, churches and charities that already provide social services. Dear Parliament, In these weeks, we feel in particular the importance of the sacrifice and unselfish assistance of institutions maintained by churches and various charitable organisations. The guarantee of this responsibility is the millennia of experience that in the face of the greatest challenges in history, even without request, these organisations were practitioners of social justice and social love. We all applaud their service in this area, their Christian charity efforts, and especially their standing in recent weeks, which we thank you very much for. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to support this bill on the basis of the above. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-07-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, When I received this task from the faction to carry out my duties as chief speaker in this legislative presentation, I thought, as I was the head of state maintenance institution, I was the maintainer of a civil society organization, and I can see the ecclesiastical function, and perhaps because of this complex relationship, I was assigned the task of strengthening the political will of which this party association, with the democratic ideas of the democratic party and the Christian Democratic Party, is in league with the support of a government which, even in the fight of the Constitution of the European Union, stood up for the idea that the kind of democratic arrangement developed on the foundations of Christianity, which the European Union today, and I believe, the Hungarian state structure also declarates, which, in our Fundamental Law, begins with our national creedism. So our commitment to God and Christianity, I think, is in a much more worthy place in our mind than, by the way, when we look at the previous cycles of relations with churches and social services, then, indeed, by reference to the treaty with the Vatican, the previous governments simply resolved their mistake of deleting the greater norm and allowed 100 people to establish a church. [[17.20]] And then we argued on the law on the old churches that can use the church term, and perhaps this debate has not been closed to this day, but I think that we can definitely strengthen the power of the community, the faith, the kind of charity that has a thousands of years of tradition in the country, as Mr. State Secretary said, and which I personally experienced in my own constituency, as I began to say, and with which church supporters manage schools, social institutions and child protection institutions, whether in the basic service or in child protection institutions, by taking over, operating and operating the foster family network. If I'm being very honest, as a social worker, I can't tell you, but I can only guess what the plus that we're experiencing with church supporters, but when we're in those institutions, it's a mystery, it's a kind of responsibility, and it's a kind of attitude on the part of clients that might be compared to the sacred feeling that we simply call faith. I think that this government and every government, every sectoral body, has a duty to cooperate with the churches, because in the unsponsored commitment that we call a state commitment, we do not hand over, we only cooperate, and, yes, by ownership and transfer of property, we strengthen the kind of service that, in terms of the number of state beneficiaries, 44 percent of the basic social services are already provided, and 25.1 percent of the boarding institutions are already provided by institutions with a church reserve within the current supply system. With this proposal, I believe that the government's aim is to expand the institutional network of churches, thus strengthening their so far victimistic work with additional support, by allowing the current institutional system to operate and by transferring movable and immovable property and human resources to the maintenance of churches for the purpose of carrying out commitments and tasks. I think that the experience so far, the high degree of empathy, care, discipline, which are virtues in the functioning of this institutional system, is the basis for the submission of this law and the government's thinking of the principle of social care and the coloring and strengthening of the aforementioned maintenance network. There are also guarantee rules in this to ensure that the operation does not go wrong or melt down the kind of responsibility that occurs in the care, since the Ministry of Human Resources, or whatever it is called, is required to allow the state-owned social or child protection institution to be transferred to a religious legal person. It also requires another member of the government: the Minister of Finance and Minister for the Coordination of Church Relations, to be more precise, Deputy Prime Minister at the moment. I believe that coordination with the ecclesiastical institutions and the KDNP leader following me have played a major role in the professional advancement of the State Secretary before me. So I think that the work that has been done so far may also be continued or strengthened through these individuals. The annex lists the legal fate of the churches and the 29 social institutions already taken over and operated by the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association, and settles the transfer of 36 properties and other property necessary for the task. I think that as an additional guarantee element, we can mention the monument-protected buildings, and we have heard a lot about this. It is covered by the law that the same legal rules and conditions must be complied with in historic buildings. In addition, the transfer takes place at the book value at the time of transfer, so the loss of property does not even occur, since the transfer value assessed by experts is recorded at the choice of the successor. It also records the supply of the transferred institutions in the long term, the possible maintenance change and the change of the contract for some other reason. Here, too, cooperation between the Minister for the Management of State Property and the EMMI Minister is necessary for possible disposal and its burden. It also deals with how, in the event of termination of the supply contract or termination of either party, if it returns to the State, how and how it resolves these legal possibilities, which I think, once again, we find in the proposal as a guarantee element. Once again, I think we should express our thanks for the social responsibility that has been done so far, for unselfish assistance, for the functioning of social and child protection institutions. I call on my fellow Members to support this bill on the basis of previous practice or their own experience. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-07-124	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Csányi, who will be followed by László Szászfalvi, Lajos Korózs and László Sebian-Petrovszki.
u2020-04-07-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let me return to the previous debate for a moment. There the anger and the dear fellow Members went a long way, but I would like to stick to our specific subject now, so I would like to express my thoughts on this. In the context of the bill, I would first like to express our thanks and appreciation to the churches in Hungary for their very useful and exemplary activities in the field of social and child protection. As a believing Reformate with spiritual occasions, I am pleased that the great week before the National Assembly may also be about churches, although it should be noted that this time seems a bit backwards at the time of the epidemic, perhaps we will find out why we should talk about it now. But while you're here, let's, of course, have a word about it. We are also pleased that we have a proposal that seeks to strengthen churches and provide financial relief in their charitable work. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is a Christian, national folk party, so we can support any sensible proposal aimed at strengthening the invigorating churches that preserve our Christian identity. Let's hope that's what's gonna happen here. We have also dealt with churches at several points in our election programme in 2018, as we said then, we initiate and continue to return the former religious institutions and properties nationalized under the communist dictatorship, in cooperation with the relevant churches. Let us hope that this can happen once, if there is such an intention, then we will be there for them. Turning to the bill, as we have just heard, we see a detailed list of 29 properties, of which the Evangelical Church of Hungary 7, the Reformed Church 9, the Greek Catholic Charity Service 1 and the Maltese Charity Service 10 can receive, and I have published numbers. We trust, as the Secretary of State has said, that the maintenance communities concerned will continue to treat property belonging to them as careful owners. We also see and welcome the safeguards that are included in the event of a possible termination or termination of the function, that in this case the ownership will be returned to the State. This is important to preserve public wealth. At the same time, the bill does not include any impairments or depreciations in terms of real estate, but the state's wealth may be impaired, and we would be happy to see this happening. However, there are also questions about the bill, on which we would welcome your reassuring answers. What consideration was given to the selection of these properties? Will this process take its next step? [[17 .30]] In the detailed explanation, we read this, and I quote: In the absence of permissions from the owner, however, the churches do not have room for manoeuvre with regard to the assets transferred by the current free use agreement. What room for manoeuvre would the communities concerned need in terms of real estate? This argument is somewhat contradicted by the fact that if the institutions, if they want to make any changes through the church, such as, say, reducing or increasing the number of seats, which I understand is the possibility of free space, they will already find themselves facing the Minister of Human Resources, who will need permission to do so, so I do not see the freedom of movement. Speaking of Jobbik's programme, allow me to ask you the specific question of planning the return of the former ecclesiastical institutions and properties nationalized under the Communist dictatorship, in cooperation with the relevant churches. I tried to get a wide range of information during my preparation, and I also looked for the Church's reaction to the bill that was tabled, I believe, that it was submitted just a week ago, but unfortunately, I did not find any reaction to this. However, I would have liked to have had some positive thoughts on the part of the churches on this subject. Allow me, at the end of the day, to express my sense of absence in this matter, when it comes to ecclesiastical communication. I believe that addressing and caring for believing brothers is an important mission for all churches, and this mission must remain in the middle of the pandemic. I therefore ask the churches in Hungary to participate more actively not only in communication but also in the fight against the virus during this time of distress. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your answers. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to MEP László Szászfalvi, who will be followed by Lajos Korózs, László Sebian-Petrovszki and Péter Ungár.
u2020-04-07-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Christian Democratic People's Party is a more than 75-year-old world-view party whose fundamental goal is to serve the Hungarian nation and Hungarian homeland on the basis of Christian values. This has been our goal in Hungarian public life for over seven decades, even during the brown and red dictatorships. The eternal values of Christianity have determined and defined our valid principles, which are a sure foundation for every age in our decisions and in our political action. These principles are still decisive today, such as freedom, solidarity, subsidiarity, the harmony of the Christian image, the individual and community, the protection of the created world, all of which are important and decisive values for us, which our Christian churches have been a credible and faithful representative for centuries. Dear House, For centuries, the presence and activities of the churches have made an extraordinary contribution to the survival, strengthening and development of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. It is not by accident that our Fundamental Law states, and I quote: "We recognize the role of Christianity as a national preserver. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the last thousand years, our Christian churches have contributed significantly to the survival, functioning of our country, and even to the frequent reunions in Hungarian history, with both their community building and their educational, health, cultural, social and charitable activities. KDNP has therefore always been a key supporter of the Church's religious, community and community-building work. During the change of regime, these churches have made a significant contribution to a fresh start. As early as the late 1980s, some of the most educational institutions were returned to the churches by the then governments, and then, in the early 1990s, the church compensation process, which lasted for twenty years, began. Yet, two things are important to remember. On the one hand, the fact that during the period of communism, the Hungarian state has completely deprived the churches of all its assets, its thousands of institutions, and of the lands, forests, houses and church insurance companies that maintain them, with a feather stroke. On the other hand, it should also be borne in mind that the Church's compensation, which began in 1992, was only partial and limited to a specific purpose. In English: Churches could only claim their former properties for partial and religious or community purposes, in a significantly populated and looted state. Dear House, Sorry about the longer introduction, but that's where we started. After 2010, the government made a radical paradigm shift in state and state church policy. The essence of this can be expressed in short terms: the state and churches are not against each other, the state and the churches are not just living together, they exist, but, of course, while they are clearly separated in constitutional law, the state and the churches can cooperate and cooperate with each other. We therefore need quality cooperation, the only goal of which is man, the Hungarian man, the Hungarian society. The last ten years have been about this cooperation. Of course, this cooperation does not mean that the two sides must always agree on everything, but it does mean that, unlike the previous period, there is a continuous dialogue that is always aimed at helping people, children, students, elderly people, patients, people in need, education, training, culture, health care, social and charitable areas. Part of this cooperation was partial and targeted compensation, various forms of support, changes in institutional financing, but this cooperation has taken a new direction with institutional transfers and renovations, development and investments. I believe that there has been more or less consensus between political parties in these processes, with varying intensity over the last decades. In recent years, there has been a new demand for people in church institutions, as infrastructure institutional capacities have proved to be scarce. It was clear and the government started in this direction that these capacities should be further developed in the social field and that new opportunities should be created. Dear House, The bill before us is intended to create a legal framework and conditions for this further development in the social field. We stress that public responsibility remains in the social sector, as the professional supervision system, the professional legal conditions and the guarantee system set out in the bill will continue to maintain this state responsibility, but we want to stabilise, strengthen and make the operation of the institutions possible in the long term in order to improve the quality of institutional management. This is done in two important areas on the basis of the bill submitted. First of all, since 1 January 2017, the 29 social institutions listed in the Annex to the bill have been handed over and received with free use agreements. KDNP supports the ownership of these institutions for three reasons. On the one hand, these institutions have proved themselves in recent years. They carry out their duties at a high level as required by law and other legislation and meet professional and social requirements in all respects. On the other hand, these institutions need to develop further and develop, invest and modernise both from the point of view of infrastructure and human resources, and it is clear that these resources and tendering opportunities can only be seized under clear ownership and ownership conditions. [[17.40]] Thirdly, I have to mention the fact that these institutions are not just institutions, but also living communities, which also have an exposure to settlements and areas. I could say that small psychic power plants, which provide not only physical needs but also spiritual resources, can give them. Dear Parliament, Secondly, the bill contains rules on institutions to be taken over in the future. It sets out precise and developed framework, procedural and contractual frameworks, protocols, which, on both sides, contain sufficient guarantee elements to achieve the common goal of the state and churches, the provision of people and the strengthening and development of social institutions. I would like to highlight only one example of these guarantees, which has, of course, already been mentioned. The transferred property may only be used for those purposes and, in the event of termination of the task, the assets serving the benefit will be returned to the State's property free of charge. Dear Parliament, The government had long discussions with the churches on the bill, and they supported the proposal. For the reasons and reasons set out above, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/9933. I would like to ask the other factions to do so. Thank you for your perseverance. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-128	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, who will be followed by László Sebian-Petrovszki, Péter Ungár and Olivio Kocsis-Cake.
u2020-04-07-129	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This item will take place quite late. We all thought that early afternoon was the day for this agenda to be discussed, but the last two were important, and I'm not gonna argue that for a minute. I do not want to talk about what the content of the proposal is, as Mr Secretary of State has said, although it is quite specific through optics, because there is much more here than the Secretary of State has said. I would like to start by saying that I myself believe that this system of services should also be plural. Everyone in this will find their place, the state, the municipality, the civilians, the churches. I would also like to remind this House, for the sake of historical loyalty, that it was Gyula Horn who concluded an agreement with the Vatican which not only allowed this kind of cooperation, but also ensured the functioning of churches and their institutions on the side of funding. That's one thing. The other thing I would like to anticipate is that, after the 2010 government change, the county authorities were virtually emptied by the government, and the professional services that had been assigned to the county authorities were practically nationalised without exception. I find this government decision to be a failure. Time, I think, has justified us, because it was in the right place for county municipalities, especially professional care. It is well known that according to the municipal law, there are many people who are looking at mandatory tasks, especially in terms of basic care. I do not dispute, as the author said, or the two party leaders of the government, that they were trying to set up some kind of guarantee elements here. But what I'd like to say is that we're talking about a substantial fortune here. It is not just that the existing ecclesiastical institutions, which operated residential institutions, will be further strengthened, but by that one pen stroke, they will acquire virtually ownership rights over the institutions, over the real estate. I think that if there had ever been an opportunity or an opportunity, now would be the time to involve local governments more than at present in guaranteeing the social security of citizens, because those who do municipal work also swear to protect the safety of citizens and to care for citizens. It is no coincidence that this afternoon's declaration to the Association of Free Cities, who specifically said that in this situation, I myself believe that this should not be owned by real estate, but in relation to the virus, in relation to the epidemic, that the government should cooperate with the local governments. I think that in this situation, the government should negotiate with the local government associations. I do not assume such nonsense is that everyone is looking at something else in relation to the coronal virus, and at this time such Belgrade-Budapest railway transactions can be settled, Paks II can be arranged, a fencing hall can be built in Zalaegerszeg or an academy in Szombathely. I do not assume such things, but let us record for the sake of historical loyalty that we are talking about 29 residential institutions, which have a total of 41 real estates, because there is an institution that operates in several real estates, and, as I have said, free use is virtually property ownership; with this proposal, they create the conditions for this. At the time, the author stated in the explanatory statement that they wished to provide a higher standard of service. Well, with that, my dear friends, the government has deliberately admitted that it has not been able to provide high-quality services to these people, to those who have had their seats in the institutions. Then tell me: just because there is a change of ownership and the property becomes their property, what makes this service of higher quality? I think that nothing, because the state has always had every opportunity to provide a high-quality service to the recipients. The other point of justification was that this institution would be free from politics in the future. What, you weren't free from politics until now? And does anyone think that the dedication of a property right will be a solution to immunity from politics? I'm holding back on that. Fellow Members! I hope you're not guided by the intention of preparing a future privatisation transaction. I hope that's not what this is about. I'm sure you all know that there are very high-value real estate in this portfolio. For example, there's an Esterházy castle. It's a castle. You can't even estimate how much this institution is worth. It also writes the author of the bill 3. In its section 2 and several paragraphs that it is fundamental, it is therefore necessary to vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I have no doubt that the majority of the government will vote for this. Soul on it! But they can be sure. For the first time, when the institution is not free from politics, the first time they do not have high quality care there, and for the first time, when there is a spark of real estate, it becomes an unruly palaver. There is a mystique surrounding this, and my fellow Member has mentioned it many times. Yeah. But it's not a myth of faith. From the fact that years ago the Orbán government laid down completely different rules than those applicable to all other companies, NGOs or local government organisations in the country. [[17.50]] It's not the way to pay taxes, it's not the way to book, it's not the way to admit it. I'm sorry. The mysticism is reinforced by this. It is not possible to follow where the billions, many tens of billions, hundreds of billions of forints that the churches receive, to be exact, certain churches, because not everyone gets, or even some get nothing. There are churches that maintain the same social institutions and receive a fraction of their support, such as the Roman Catholic Church. I do not want to highlight one of them, of course, but some churches are kind to the government, some churches are not, and some are not, and some of them have been judged by an international court and have not yet received the state aid they deserve. They don't dream of getting property somewhere, they don't dream about how many A6 Audis to buy for church authorities, they don't dream about renovating palaces in the United States with public money, but about bringing in a long-term supply of food on Magdolna Street. I have just given examples that some people are doing the same useful work, but they are not kind to the current government for some reason. This proposal will not be supported by my faction. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-04-07-130	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk, followed by Péter Ungár and Olivio Kocsis-Cake.
u2020-04-07-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a kind of introduction, I have to say what many of my opposition colleagues have said in previous debates this day, that it is quite amazing that we are talking about 29 state property to be handed over to churches, instead of dealing with the epidemic, its consequences and similar things. Yes, I know this has been said for more than one time in the walls today, but we have to record this: we are not dealing with the important things now, but we are dealing with 29 properties and how they should be transferred from the state to church property. We think it's wrong, it's a shame, I'm sorry to say that. But to begin with the concrete proposal, I will not reveal a great secret if I say that in the debate on the extent to which this type of task, i.e. the social and child protection tasks, must be performed by the State and in what way civil or church service providers, DK is of the opinion that this is essentially a state task and that it should play the greatest role. In recent years, or I say, perhaps in the last decade, the story here in Hungary may be that churches are becoming increasingly involved in this. DK recognises that the social involvement of the churches is significant and that they are also in important areas, but we do not think that this should involve a lack of the role of the state or the abandonment of the state's position, and this proposal can once again be seen as a step in this direction. The particular problem is that in some areas, I mean geographical areas in settlements, some social and child protection benefits have been handed over to churches or given in the last ten years without any state involvement, in Hungarian, there is no other choice, only the church institution, if you will, or the institution maintained by the church, and this proposal will take this story in this direction again. If we put this debate aside and look at what is really going on here, then we see the law on how to do it, why the role of churches in these two areas needs to be strengthened. The primary reason for this justification is that they did it very well, because otherwise what the churches did in this area was good, and then, in order to achieve even better quality, the properties used so far, used in recent years, must now be given to them. This opens up the same debate that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, has just mentioned. So, on the one hand, is it clear that the State did not perform these tasks when they were public institutions, or did the State have to do so in these areas? Why did the state take care of this badly? Someone's been looking into this? Is there some kind of impact assessment that the state couldn't carry out these tasks, passed them over to the church, and that could be enhanced even by giving up property? The proposal does not say that any kind of background study, any kind of research work, is a foundation behind this, merely stating that the transfer of real estate is necessary in order to provide even better, even better. If we look at the political background, there is indeed a sentence in the proposal that deals with the need to hand over real estate in order to provide a task free of political changes. Well, please, this is what, so that means that you have to put these properties into free use not only because of what was in previous years, but also because you own them, that maybe later a different-colored government, who thinks otherwise of doing these tasks, so that it doesn't take back, or at least it's not easy to take back, because the state has already owned its own property to the churches concerned. All that happens here is for the Fidesz government to cement ideologically kind characters in this situation, and financially strengthen them with these real estates, and confirm its position in the fact that we are obviously talking about thousands of people's lives here, only at these 29 properties, it can have a lasting impact. I really liked the expression "soul power" that absolutely expresses what I'm talking about. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: You don't understand any of it, that's the problem!]] The problem is, unfortunately, you're expressing it correctly, Congressman. [[László Szászfalvi: You're twisting it right away!]] We're talking about a free transfer of movable and real estate. I can't see it any other way than squandering the state's wealth, and I'm sorry to have to put it this way, with such strong words, they've done the job with free use so far. It's not about the presentation that it's been bad, is it? No, it's gonna get even better, I'm gonna say without any impact assessment, or at least it's not in the material. It is so badly wanted by the pro-government representatives and the government that it is even removed from the national wealth laws that at least guaranteed that this property would be inalienable for fifteen years, or removed from the principle of commitment to purpose. Indeed, it is a very cynical half sentence that there has been no room for manoeuvre for churches using this free property; we do not know what they did not have room for, and I would be very interested to know what they did not. And only the Minister's permission will be enough for anything to happen here. There is no presentation of the citizens who live there, I say, probably thousands of people, because again this does not reveal their rights, that in any way everything that has to be done in a state institution will prevail there. From equal opportunities, I could list many, many areas that are important in such an area. There is only one sentence in this proposal, namely that the government is committed to protecting children's rights; we are very happy about that. In recent decades, churches and children have shown themselves in the press and politics on a completely different subject. We're interested in how and how you protect children's rights. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: That was ugly!]] Let's say, in this constellation, this would be very important, because we are actually talking about people living there. The proposal doesn't really cover the operation. So, all right, do the churches get these real estates, but by the way, can they run these real estates, have the right resources to do this, or is it in any way, just get these state real estates? The kind of supply contract that the government has concluded with the churches, the church can terminate at any time without practically justification, practically at any time when it does not like the construction that has now been established, but the state can only terminate if the church does something that has not been approved in advance by that minister. [[18.00]] So unless that church is making some very big mistake, the state will not in any way take back its operation, so it will terminate this supply agreement. Summa summarum, I would like to sum this up by saying that this entire proposal, this transfer of property, is a wrong move in the wrong direction, and that here, specifically, political profit, is being sacrificed on the altar of these citizens who live in these institutions. We do not see that the government is interested in their rights, receive better care, what is the guarantee of that. It's just a matter of real estate reaming. DK will in no way support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-07-132	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár, and if he is here, Kocsis-Cake Olivio will be another speaker.
u2020-04-07-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very important to say about the law that this is a worldview law, which is obviously not a problem, because the point is that voters choose a party in an election on a worldview basis, and the majority of which have a right to a worldview law, only us who started differently in the election and in this Chamber have the right to criticize it on a worldview basis. [[László Szászfalvi: Go ahead. That's why you're here.]] The fact is that when you say, Mr State Secretary, that the Church's natural mission to participate in the social care system is, as a matter of course, a statement of fact that I agree with, but in my opinion, it is also a natural mission of the state to participate in the social care system. What I see is not only in this specific bill, but in the whole of social governance, that there are some part-tasks of social care that the state is gradually leaving, or at present, I would say that it is not going to go on a sufficient level. I'd like to start with something that doesn't seem necessarily related to this bill at first, but it does. On German public television, I do not know that my fellow Members heard a report that I think is outrageous that Poland has closed its borders, and so those Polish social workers who worked as elderly workers could not cross the border to provide their work in Germany. In parentheses: they couldn't pass because they didn't have a contract, because the commuting workforce is being transferred, and in Germany there are simply hundreds of thousands of elderly nurses who work without a contract. We know very well that many Hungarian elderly nurses work in Austria and other Western European countries in the same way. We also know precisely that in Hungary, old-age care and, in many ways, adult-disabled care also suffer from a terrible shortage of labour. This is important for this law because this terrible shortage of labour will not be replaced by the continued provision of additional resources to church institutions, the provision of additional powers and, in this case, the provision of additional assets. The worldview content of this law is that, at present, it is not called a law to transfer property to civil society organisations for the purpose of performing social tasks. If there were to be a law in which there would be 120 real estate, of which 40 were such, 40 were agreements with local governments, then I would say that this is, as a matter of fact, part of the state to involve as many partners as possible in carrying out these tasks. The fact is that the ideology of the Orbán government in terms of social governance is, and this is especially the case with the elderly and the adult disability care, that this needs to be resolved primarily by the family, which has been said several times, and the state is only allowed to resolve it if the family cannot. The fact is that because of the change in the structure of the family, because the nuclear family and the previous family models and it can be argued that this is a good or a bad thing, but this is a natural fact that I am telling you is broken down and mosaic families are formed, it simply will not be possible for the family to solve the problem of elderly care in itself, so an increased state and not ecclesiastical engagement is required. And since the state won't be able to solve it, it can't be single, and in most cases it's very underpaid women to put this caring job on their hands. The caring work and the worldview of my party comes in here is not a renewable work constantly, but a job that has to be paid to the state, and because it has to be paid, it has to be done not only through the ecclesiastical institutions, but also through the community of course that I think is called a welfare state, which, if I know correctly, can also be regarded as an important European achievement in the past 75 years of the Christian Democratic People's Party, as regards the Christian social movement. [[László Szászfalvi: Was, yes.]] I am sorry that my fellow Member Csárdi is not here, because I think he asked me a worthy question as to why the churches have not yet welcomed this law, why they have not issued a declaration of what a great thing this is. I will not say that I have spoken to church maintainers, because then I would put them in an awkward position, so this has not happened, but I have a thought that it is wrong for them to get real estate, and although they are very valuable, and I agree with my colleague Korózs that they are valuable real estate, but they are typically in a very bad condition. If you get a property that you don't get the source to maintain it or possibly renovate it, that means that the state simply transfers a task and in this case doesn't fund it properly. In fact, there are specific properties in which the state can get rid of a historic renovation project. There is one other problem, but I think that my fellow Members in KDNP will be able to explain in more detail what this means, I admit that I am not the expert in this, that I believe that this is the problem of the word in church institutions. If I am aware that this is exactly what my fellow Member Sebastian said, that in certain areas in the country, if you can only live in a specific church institution in a nursing home, then there is a problem that there may be another person of faith who wants to work in that institution, and that is a kind of competition between the churches, which, in my opinion, is a bad thing, but you have more relationships of this kind than I have ever had. I would go further, and this is not specific to real estate, but it is relevant to the policy of the Orbán government between churches and the social sphere, that they have not yet been able to justify it, except by denying this fact, that if we have enough here to allow the Church to carry out a natural mission, then why does the Church receive 1.8 times more money per person than the social leadership in the state institutions receives. I know this from the fact that I don't have a sphere, so I can't say this in a psychic way, but since I've sent so many letters to Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári during written questions in this matter, that I've already integrated these sentences into myself, that it's not true, because they're calculating differently, because they'll look at the difference and then they'll make up for it later in the following year. But this replacement already considers that the state and its municipal standards are combined and replaced by its churches. I think that the church has a source from the state, obviously, to perform such social tasks, but the church has other resources. You can get money from the congregation in a thousand other ways. The fact is that the municipality and the state only have a source of tax. So here is a surplus of resources for church institutions, and this surplus of resources, in my opinion, is not appropriate. I'm moving on. I can see that. I'm sure you've been to a lot of institutions, church, state and municipal institutions, and the church institutions are in basically better shape. This is not because the local governments or the state are not paying attention, because this has been the case in the past, it is simply because they provide more resources to the church, which can even gain more resources from itself in this way. The fact is that the whole social security system cannot be resolved in such a way of viewing the world. There should be a great deal of development, and the social sector would have to raise wages. I do not understand, Mr Secretary, that in the current epidemic situation, when social workers have the same exposure as health workers, they have not received at least one single reward of HUF 500 000. You know perfectly well that they deserve it as well as health workers. [[18.10]] Moreover, the home care fee should finally be settled for those who are not caring for their children at home, but for most of their elderly relatives, as even the MNB has said that what cannot be shown to a opposition-like organisation is that, in terms of elderly care, the state will substantially increase the demographic indicators that need to be spent, and that this will grow, it will not be possible for the church to regulate this by providing continuous extra costs or extra costs. Finally, I have to say that I have no psychological problem with the expression that there is a mystery in church institutions and that it is an intellectual power plant... [[László Szászfalvi: Soul!]] As a spiritual power plant, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, they're acting as a spiritual power plant. I think it's beautiful to have people working with faith, as a mission in an institution like this, and I'm sure it's going to affect the institution itself, and it's really a very beautiful thing. But many state institutions have the same mysticism as why someone works as a nurse for 130 thousand forints. In the same way, this spiritual power plant has the effect of people who are in many cases non-believers, and they also deserve the attention of the state, the government, to receive those allowances. So, I think that this should not be the basis of the distinction here, despite the fact that, once again, the church is involved or even participates significantly in the social care system, it is not a bad thing. One last thought. The social security system depends essentially on those who work there. Of course, it is very important what condition the building is in, and it is very important how reserved it is, but all these institutions operate because of church, state, municipal, civil, because the people working there operate these institutions. You're looking at almost any number, and I know I won't be able to give you a number on which Mr Secretary of State won't give you another number, but I would say that I think even Mr Secretary of State agrees that the wages of social workers are currently unsatisfactory. It is not satisfactory in terms of how much they earn on average, let's say, on the market, even in trade. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State and the majority of the Government that the next time that he will deal with the social sector in this situation in Parliament, even in this epidemic situation, then people who are now in a heroic struggle to somehow manage this epidemic together, should finally settle their wages with the same one-off support for social workers as they deserve, whether they work in a church institution or in a state institution. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-134	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Sándor Kovács submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond politically to my fellow Member, Mr Coros. The MSZP doesn't govern you to immediately remember privatisation. I would like to send a message to László Petrovszki's DK colleague that political profit, cooperation with trade unions, the implantation of trade union leaders as representatives was quite different from cooperation with churches, representing a party whose president lives in private assets acquired from nationalisation. That's all I'd like to say, thank you all for your input. To my fellow Member, Péter Ungár: the provision of public tasks has not been impaired, and I believe that, together with the ageing society, the social law, which we discuss together in this House, provides for all those people with disadvantages, either because of their age, disability or other congenital or acquired diseases, who are considered to be in need. So I don't share your view that the state can't do it. You can do your social duties. You can argue that you're okay or you're sick. No wonder you don't understand the term mystic, spiritual power plant, because it requires this kind of inner feeling, the kind of spirit that is on this side. I would like to compare this with the fact that in the previous debate on the agenda, they were very concerned about a gender change, about entering a number, but it is not affected by the term spirit power plant; this may be the most important difference between rainbowism and Christian faith. Thank you very much. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]]
u2020-04-07-136	Thank you, Congressman. In a two-minute comment, I give the floor to László Keresztes Lóránt.
u2020-04-07-137	Thank you, Mr. President. I did not want to comment on this debate, but I think, Mr President, that you may not be proud of this speech, especially at the end. That is not what you are talking about, fellow Members. I, by the way, am a Christian believer. I can agree with a lot of things. I understand a lot of what you're saying. However, I cannot agree with many things as a Christian. I'd like to ask you one thing, it's a very grounded, technical question. Here, Mr Secretary of State and you have spoken of certain guarantees regarding real estate, monument protection guarantees, and so on. We have also heard that these free-owned properties can be used for this function, and that if this function, this use will cease, they will have to be returned. I'll give you an example. In Baranya County, in the village of Görcsöny, one of the buildings concerned is a later Benyovszky Castle built in 1760. It's a very special property with special architectural features, Scottish style, which I don't really know about in the country. At the same time, he's not in very good shape. My question is, exactly how exactly the guarantees you have mentioned are shown in reality. So where will the church organization concerned have a source to preserve and maintain this property, along with the fact that this building has a real historical value, and if this function ceases to exist, it will be returned to public property in such a way that it preserves the features and values of the monument protection. So I heard these guarantees from you, but I couldn't read them out of the bill, so I am confident that I will get a concrete answer from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in two minutes.
u2020-04-07-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond to our colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs. It is true that Gyula Horn signed the Vatican contract. He forgot to tell us one thing, Mr Korózs, that he has not implemented anything from this Vatican treaty, that Gyula Horn and his government have not implemented one letter, and that he has left the other churches out of the whole case. That was unfortunate. The other one. When you say that it is a fantastic wealth that we are handing over, we would hand it over to these church legal entities, including a castle, and how much privatisation this whole story will be, whether it is a background deal, and you are concerned about the quality of the work that has been done in these institutions, that if we want to raise this quality now. I would like to ask what quality institutional system was in place in Hungary during his term of State Secretary, what quality social institutions were. I could only list in my own constituency the social institutions, child protection institutions, psychiatric institutions, castles that rotted during socialist governance, not for a penny, not for a penny. Mr. Korózs Secretary of State and then Mr. Socialist Member, what then did you do for this huge, wonderful property and for the high-quality operation and operation of this institutional system? I would like to quote many sentences from sociologist Zsuzsa Ferge, who is not on the right, which tells us everything about the operation of Lajos Korózs and his government. In 2008 Hungary was the only state affected by the crisis, which didn't cross anything at all, not a single straw of matches, so that something would happen to the losers of the crisis. That's what their social policy was. I'll keep going. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-07-141	Thank you. I wouldn't want to respond to my fellow Christian Democrat talking about rainbows, but... [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: It was Fidesz!]] Was that the one with the fidesz? Sometimes it's hard to know, I apologize. This really is an honest mistake. [[László Szászfalvi: It would be appropriate to find information at the workplace!]] Yeah. 'Cause I'm gonna let that go generously. [[18.20]] All I have indicated, and I think it is important to say this sentence for the record, is that the same mysticism can be found in a state-owned institution. That's all I said. It's as much a mission as it is to work in a state institution, let's say, in a state nursing facility as it is in a church. That's all I wanted to say. So that is the cultural fighter and, I think, at least to some of this debate, an unworthy comment that he took from a previous debate that I didn't speak to, I think it could balance. So I'm asking you to let this go generously, so that you wouldn't be here having a crisis-allerial debate that I didn't say at all. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-07-143	Thank you very much for the floor. I will follow my fellow Member if he has not been here for the expression "Rainbows." By this, I mean the kind of liberal rainbow thinking that is typical of Western liberalism, especially of the parliamentary parties DK, that the kind of Christian values that we represent cannot, by chance, meet their feelings. Then allow us to be proud of what they can be proud of at the parade. I want to be proud of myself as a Christian and my faith. Thank you very much. Once again, I will follow Congressman Péter Ungár if he has not been here. I'm late too. On that side, there were concerns about gender change, gender change. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-144	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in two minutes.
u2020-04-07-145	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Just because I couldn't finish the reactions, I'd like to say very briefly. My fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk asked why we were not dealing with the epidemic. Unfortunately, this is the case of the cap: if we are dealing with the epidemic yesterday all day long, when we are talking about protection against the epidemic, if we are talking about the epidemic fund, if we are talking about the economic protection package, the problem is that Parliament is negotiating certain legislative proposals on a regular schedule, and that is the problem. So, unfortunately, there's absolutely no way to make sense of you. Real estate transfer: I ask you not to worry about the Hungarian state's assets, because you were the only ones who wasted it when you were in the government. Since 2010, the Hungarian state's assets have increased to HUF 6000 billion. In 2010, the Hungarian state's assets amounted to HUF 11 000 billion, and in 2018 the Hungarian state's assets amounted to HUF 17 500 billion. So for the property of the Hungarian state, please do not worry. That's why we've been working the last ten years to keep this fortune from being squandered. The expression "soul power": I apologize if you have a lot of sensitivity to our rude speeches, then let us have some spiritual sensitivity. If you misunderstand my words so much when I'm talking about a church institution or the psychic nature of the institutional system for half a sentence, and you're making such cynical comments, then I just don't know what we're talking about, we're on a completely different path, we're talking about something completely different, by words, we mean something completely different about real, flesh and blood human lives behind words. Totally different. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, in two minutes.
u2020-04-07-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I sincerely hope that my speeches didn't upset my right-wing fellow Christian Democrats. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: No!]] At the same time, I asked a question I haven't been answered yet. Maybe Mr. Secretary will try. I'm sure I wasn't worried about the operation of Parliament, and I didn't waste any government assets. I asked you a question specifically about the real estate. I see a list here, but there's nothing about these real estates. I see specific landmarks, different addresses. I would like to know exactly what kind of decision preparation was in this regard. When each property was examined at the time of drafting the legislation, what aspects were considered exactly? I mentioned a specific example, the case of the Benyovsky Castle of Convulsions. Did anyone examine the condition of this castle, its historic value, its value? And in what way, from what source you will have the opportunity, the opportunity for the church organization concerned to maintain this castle in a decent condition, in the right condition, and, if this function changes, return it to the state, then also in a state in which we can say that we were responsible for guarding the integrity of our own national assets, you might say, of its historic assets. I sincerely hope that this question will be answered, because we are sitting here in a debate on a bill, and that is the essence of it. Thank you.
u2020-04-07-148	Thank you, Congressman. I will also give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in two minutes.
u2020-04-07-149	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, and I will not speak again. I asked for the floor because it is written down, by the way, that is the question of Lóránt Keresztes, and I would also like to respond briefly to that from my own approach. I wrote down where these institutions would be sourced if we gave the property to property to renovate it or modernise it. My fellow Member, I have only one answer for this, and I believe that the rest will be answered by the Secretary of State, on the preparation, on the technical details, on the valuation of assets, and so on and so forth. But the answer I can give you is that as owners, they can finally apply with full rights and full responsibility, for example. So far, these properties have obviously been used in a fully-bound system under a contract of use, not so long since they've been used for three years, so in a three-year exit. I guess when they took over these institutions, the first and most important thing was to take over smoothly, to keep things normal. Obviously, it had to be settled, but now, obviously, the questions have come up that they can finally come up with full rights, full responsibility as owners and potential owners, prepare applications, obviously have technical, budgetary and other parts, and, in clear circumstances, there will be much greater opportunities to obtain funds. There is obviously an opportunity to apply for this, as well as an opportunity for individual government support, EU funds, so they must obviously be completed and completed. I think that as owners, they will have much more and much more opportunities, more room for manoeuvre, so that neither the infrastructure part nor human resources development is forgotten. And obviously also in terms of salary increases and, on the other hand, in terms of training and professional progress, there are very important and good opportunities, I think. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-07-150	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary of State how you'd like to respond to the closing. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-07-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I would just like to thank you briefly for the contributions that have been constructive and have been made after learning the law. While I was looking at it, we are talking about a five-and-a-half-page bill, but there are a lot of questions raised by the opposition that can actually be answered clearly after reading five and a half pages. I'm gonna try to tell you a few of these here, though some of them left the room, asked me questions, but I'm still trying to answer them. Firstly, I thank Mr Kovács very much for his confirmation, and this has come up several times as to why a church maintainer is different and what kind of research is behind it. Hundreds of years and even thousands of years are behind why churches view this as their mission. This is not only the case in Hungary, but we find in many places throughout the world, in Europe, that charitable organizations and churches are involved in social care, because the particular question, which is locally, is the particular problem that a family has, the local organizations, and the churches can also provide an appropriate answer as a maintainer. But this legislation, as far as I can see, was tried by a few people to explain it, is not a new social law. So the financing of social care and social security does not change a bit from this law. In this law, there are two things that can be clearly separated. [[18.30]] One of them is about the past. Several opposition representatives asked why these properties were selected. These properties are not selected, but are still provided by these organizations in these properties. What is included in the Annex is still taking place in social care, and these social benefits are special in that they are tasks taken over from the state by the church and the church maintainer, which is listed in Annex 1. And all the rest of the bill records a procedure, a procedure that if a church maintainer decides that he wants to take over a service, then what he has to do. Then it was said that in this case it would be transferred by a stroke of a pen. It's not gonna come through with a feather stroke. The law sets out who has to approve this in advance, after all, there is a public government decision on this, and a right of ownership can be transferred where appropriate. Congressman Lajos Korózs was concerned about the place of plural care in social care. This is how I started at the beginning, so I would like to note that what we have said in social policy over the past period, in light of the figures, I think it will be true. Social services, so when we're still trying to help the family and not take it out, take it and take care of someone in an institution, it looks like the local government is responsible for more than 48%, church supporters for 44%, civilians for 7.5 percent, and the state is practically not there for basic services. In specialized care, the state ratio is 29 percent, the local government is almost 30, the church is 25, as Congressman Kovács said, and the civilian rate is 18 percent. So the kind of diversity that exists in the social field is that civil, ecclesiastical, municipal, state, is present today. And there is a very important condition that the state does not withdraw, the state's task today, and after this law, if you support it, you have the state as a financier. Last year it happened that, by raising budget standards, the budget will be increased by HUF 40 billion, precisely to the civilian, church and municipal maintainers, which is included in the current budget for 2020. These institutions operate in such a way that the State provides the underlying funding. Congressman Ungár has suggested why the 1.8-fold multiplier is present for churches. Because there is a Vatican agreement, and it says that the churches must receive the funding that the state has spent on a particular care itself. So in this regard, there is always an ex-post standardization because the church will receive the amount that the state has spent as a maintainer for this benefit. They don't get any more, they don't get any more, they get this normative. The claim about the real estate dog, which has been said several times, I strongly reject it. Congressman Sebian-Petrovsk has made the statement that the beneficiaries are being sacrificed on the altar of profit. In addition to all restraint and modesty, I would like to ask you to visit these institutions and ask those who are provided by these church supporters how they see their care. There was still a question of how they could operate it. This bill has nothing to do with operation. The operation is described in the Finance Act, the Social Act, the Gyvt., the Child Protection Act. They've already operated these supplies. The story here is that when the property is transferred to the maintainer, the maintainer can manage more responsibly, apply more easily and act as a good farmer. In this five-and-a-half-page law, there are also passes to warranty rules; up to 10. I can also say a section, which was raised as a question. Under the guarantee rules, it also includes that if, where appropriate, a church is unable to perform its duties, there is the same book value as it received in the case of return. There are, therefore, elements on the part of the State that enable everyone to enforce, in addition to guarantee rules, the rights and obligations that arise in this context. I would like to thank everyone for their comments. I would like to add once again that this bill provides, on the one hand, an opportunity for an orderly procedure in the future. By the way, this was done in consultation with the church actors, the churches concerned, of course. On the other hand, those who have already performed tasks in recent years because they have taken over institutions from state institution-keeping will manage the real estate for them. Once again, I would like to point out that this is not a part of a real estate dump, but, in terms of social security, to strengthen the safe operation of the churches working there and carrying out the mission there. Thank you again for your comments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws until closure. Government referral T/9918. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-04-07-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/9918 in front of you. Bill No.2 consists of a fairly extensive paragraph 282 and amends 46 laws. The question of why such a wide-ranging bill is needed is, in short, the answer that the continuous and accelerating change in the social conditions to be regulated, the feedback of the case law and the coherence of the legal system from time to time justify the revision and adaptation of the legislation. As part of the judicial reform starting in 2010, three pillars of criminal law legislation have been completely renewed. The new Criminal Code was adopted in 2012, the new Penal Code in 2013 and the new Penal Code in 2017. In recent years, in particular since the entry into force of the new Criminal Procedure Act in 2018, this area has not been reviewed. The bill before you has therefore been drawn up on the basis of the processing of regulatory needs that have arisen over the past nearly two years. The drafting of such an extremely comprehensive bill, which completes and corrects a number of laws, is a serious task. Taking into account the feedback from the practice, the obligations at EU and international level, the recommendations of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the guidelines set out by the Constitutional Court, a coherent legislation was required to address all identified problems and shortcomings. In preparing the bill, therefore, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court Office, the Hungarian Bar Association, the National Criminal Enforcement Command, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, and several other organisations relied heavily on the proposals and comments of the government. [[18.40]] The laws contained in the bill can be divided into three groups. On the one hand, it is included in the proposal, and even the substance is given to the proposal by the law on the subject of criminal law, for which it is a matter of substantive amendments. This includes the law on criminal proceedings, which is subject to the most extensive amendment, as well as the Btk. and the Penalty Act and the EU Legal Assistance and International Criminal Aid Law. The second group includes laws that are in substance linked to criminal law law and their amendment has therefore been justified. For example, the law on police, national security services, prosecutor's office, or the law on offences. Finally, the bill also contains technical amendments to a number of sectoral laws which refer to changing criminal law institutions and facts. It's been almost two years for Be. and the related large number of regulations since its entry into force in 2018. Based on the statistical data published since then, and the enforcement feedback, it can be concluded that the bodies concerned started Be proactively, open to novelties and prepared. - if you have any further questions on the use of this product. In addition, a number of conferences and professional presentations dealt with the new law on criminal proceedings, where the reception of most new or renewed legal institutions in the Code was favourable. As in all legislation, however, it is true with regard to the Code of Criminal Procedure that certain interpretation issues, inconsistencies, are only revealed when the legislation is applied in practice. In addition, in some cases, in particular with regard to legal institutions without a prior history, it has become necessary to monitor, examine and ensure the implementation of the original legislative intention. As a result, the Be. a wide-ranging review has been carried out, with the result that the proposal implements several important clarifications and corrections on the Code. In view of the following, I would like to describe only the main elements of the main amendments to the scope of the bill. Dear House, The Be. Its regulatory concept has made it clear that the position of the defendant starts with the disclosure of suspicion, but it has also been justified to clarify the rights and obligations of the person quoted, produced, captured or wanted for the offence before the suspect was questioned. The Be. a significant step has been taken to ensure that this status, which has previously been treated in an uncertain manner by the application of the law, is settled. The proposal is made by Be. The Committee would like to see the situation, rights and obligations of the person who has become a party to the proceedings following a comprehensive, coherent and now complete journey. The proposal clarifies the rules on criminal proceedings in the field of lawyer activity. In accordance with the Law on Lawyer Activities, he may act not only as a lawyer but also as an authorised legal representative, but also as a European Community lawyer, employed European Community lawyer and other persons entitled to pursue a lawyer's activity, and it is therefore appropriate to adjust the rules of the Criminal Procedure Act in this way. In addition, based on practical experience, it was also possible to clarify and simplify the rules regarding the appointment of a public defender in terms of administrative burdens and the unjustified involvement of the deputy defender in the event of the lack of access to the public defender. Based on the feedback received from the practice, the proposal aims to address the long-standing uncertainty of persons involved in criminal proceedings because they fail to notify their address and other contact details. This issue is dealt with by the Criminal Procedure Act with the institution of law for the service of notices for the defendants, but this situation has so far been unsolved for other data subjects, which has resulted in a number of unjustified delay and administrative burden. In accordance with the principles of necessity and proportionality, the proposal ensures that the consequences of failure to comply with a subpoena are not unduly applied. In addition, the proposal corrects the previous regulatory inaccuracies of service to the counter-interested person. Based on the experience of the past period, it has become clear that it is necessary to review the virtually decades-long regulation of the certification of the protocol. Digital technologies, the proliferation of IT tools and solutions, wide-ranging distance listening and the increasing recording of procedural acts on images and recordings have shown that the paper rules of the procedural law based on the manual signature of the protocol are in the way of technological progress. This is particularly true in the light of the current challenges. Accordingly, the proposal seeks to establish comprehensive rules for technological solutions to ensure the application of modern tools and methods, such as e-scanning, and to ensure that the protocol contains, in a credible manner and in a manner not disputed by the participants, what has been done in the course of the procedure, thereby ensuring their ex post credibility. The Be. has substantially changed the legal institution of the settlement. On the basis of practical experience, it is necessary, in part, to ensure full compliance with the requirement of legal certainty and, in part, to address certain issues at the statutory level in order to facilitate the applicability of the legal institution. It is therefore appropriate to define categorically that the legal institution of the settlement may be used in the course of the imposition of the sentence for any legislative provision which is itself subject to Be. It doesn't rule me out. The new Be. Its well-known legal institution is the substantive preparatory meeting, but its practical application raises a number of questions. In order to ensure uniform application of the law and the right to a fair trial in accordance with the intention of the legislator, the proposal clarifies the right of the defendant and his defences to be present and asked at the preparatory meeting and the need for a substantive hearing of the defendant, which is tailored to the purpose of the preparatory meeting, in particular with a view to revealing the sincerity of the confession. The Be. In order to speed up the procedure, the conceptual innovation of the appeal system was the legal institution of the restricted appeal, which is to say that only the first instance provisions challenged by the appeal will be subject to a substantive review in the second instance procedure. In order to ensure the predictable application of the new legal institution to the prosecution and to the defence, there was a strong need for the law to settle the obligation of the facts laid down in the oral reasoning of the court. Accordingly, the proposal clarifies the rules on the obligation to keep a record of oral explanations and makes it clear that, within the framework of the identity of the case, the court is bound by the facts stated in the oral statement. Finally, as the final stone of this regulatory system, the proposal defines a breach of this provision as an absolute reason for its repeal. According to the previous rules, the only institution which accelerated the substantive court hearing was the court-martial. Based on judicial statistics, almost 60 percent of cases will be completed at the preparatory meeting after the general rule has been prosecuted, thus a review of the function of the court in the new legislative and enforcement environment has become justified. Accordingly, the proposal intends to allow a claim to the court to be returned to its original form at a time close to the time when the offence was committed. At the same time, the regulation intends to provide an appropriate time frame to ensure warranty rules and the right of access to loaded case files. Accordingly, the proposal may also be made within two months of the offence being committed in the event of being brought to court and admitted to the court. It is of guarantee importance that the amendment allows the court to examine in substance all the legal conditions for bringing to court. In addition to the Criminal Procedure Act, amendment of the Criminal Code is also part of the regulatory scope of the proposal. This partly serves to comply with our country's EU and international obligations and partly to remedy legislative difficulties. First, the amendment of penalties for offences relating to cash substitute payment instruments and the amendment of the act of terrorism in order to ensure full consistency with the Counter-Terrorism Directive, the extension of the confiscation of the extended property to facilitate illegal residence to criminal offences and, finally, the clarification of the concept of a foreign person in accordance with the recommendation of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Btk. a clear major change, however, is a complete re-regulation of the state of the money laundering and the economy. A more effective withdrawal of criminal assets is expected to further reduce the number of criminal offences. The new facts clearly extend the scope of the crime to any property element with which it will ensure effective action against new forms of assets of the modern age. However, the most important innovation in this context is that the objective of money laundering, the cover-up and cover-up of the result of the crime, the criminally acquired property, is transformed into an open legal situation that can be achieved by any action, and that there is also the possibility of criminalisation of the part-actions leading to the result as well as of other acts supporting it. It is an important innovation that the proposal simplifies and therefore makes money laundering more transparent. Within the facts, this means that four basic cases of money laundering are clearly distinguishable from each other. In addition to the uniform application of the law, this understandable fact also ensures legal certainty and predictability. In the re-regulation of the facts of money laundering, it was an important legal objective to maintain the same protection of the law and thus continue to be sanctioned as an infringement in accordance with the definition of the former economy. Accordingly, the proposal makes the necessary amendments to the Violation Act. Changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure should also be briefly mentioned. [[18.50]] Among the amendments to the Bv. Act, it is worth highlighting the regulation established in accordance with the indication of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Prosecutor's Office for Legal Supervision of Prison Enforcement, in relation to the so-called access hatch for the control and monitoring of the conduct of prisoners in the appropriate place. The proposal also provides for rules on bail on a captive mobile phone and provides for the possibility of obtaining information that may allow access to relevant open police information on the receiving environment when leaving the bv. institution. Unlike so far, the proposal allows for the inclusion of offenders in the treatment of crimes against the freedom of sex, even if the victim is over 18 years of age. In this way, the government is taking another step to prevent repeated sexual crimes. Through the amendments to be introduced, the prison will be required to notify the child protection system of the expected or actual release of the sentenced person. This will allow, where appropriate, the use of protective mechanisms in the best interests of children, which are independent from prison execution. This amendment is another cornerstone of the government's child and victim protection measures, which is of particular importance in relation to offences committed against relatives and children, as victims of these crimes need greater protection. The proposal also amends the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters on several points in criminal law. These are mainly due to the amendments identified by the Court of Justice of the European Union in case-by-case decisions, which ultimately ensure the proper functioning of EU legislation. The amendment to this Act was also partly justified by changes in the legislative environment and by the experience of law enforcement. Accordingly, electronic administration and electronic contact rules have been developed specialising in the procedures covered by the law, as well as the rules on the performance of translation tasks required in the performance of legal aid applications have been clarified. In addition, the proposal also amends certain sectoral laws, with two main reasons for amending them. On the one hand, the Btk. amending its interpretation provision for persons carrying out public tasks and amending Article 5/2018 of the Curia Criminal Code Council In the light of the provisions of the BJE Decision No 22 it has become necessary to clarify that persons performing public tasks not only require increased protection but also assume increased responsibilities, so that they cannot abuse their situation in the performance of the public service mission. Accordingly, the proposal amends, for example, the law on hunting, the protection of children, health, armed security guards, the forest, national public education and national higher education. In addition, the proposal implements, as far as the legal system is concerned, the clarifications and amendments that have become necessary in the context of the re-regulation of the criminal offences of money laundering and trafficking in human beings. This means technical amendments to nearly 20 laws. Mr President, Dear House, As can be seen from the above, Parliament has to decide on a rather complex bill covering a number of laws and directing cardinal questions. The amendments envisaged by the proposal have gained their present form as a result of thorough technical consultations, and the solutions developed will also have the agreement of the administrations concerned, the participants in the application of the law and the organisations responsible for implementation. Given that the legislation contained in the proposal is backed by EU and international expectations, signals from law enforcement, recommendations from the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and experience from the practical implementation of previous legislation, we can rely on the fact that by adopting the legislative proposal before you, the interpretation of the law can be made more uniform, the procedures will be smoother, and the application of the law can be made more effective. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the T/9918. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-07-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-07-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As part of the major judicial reform, the National Assembly adopted three new criminal codes between 2012 and 2018: the new criminal code, the new criminal law law and the new prison law. As is the case with all legislation in general, the economic and social changes that have taken place in recent years, the international obligations arising from our membership of the Union and other international obligations, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the recommendations of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the practical feedback of the enforcement bodies all warrant a comprehensive review of the large codes from time to time. The rapporteur presented in very detail the amendments envisaged by the proposal, so I would like to highlight only a few examples as an illustration. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments concerning the Btk. aim to address, on the one hand, compliance with EU and international obligations, such as the clarification of the facts of the terrorist activity or the concept of a foreign official, the full re-regulation of the facts of the money laundering and the economy, and, on the other hand, the difficulties arising from the interpretation of the legislation, such as the clarification of the facts of corruption offences or the concept of a person with a public mission, and the addition of the facts of the prison escape. The amendments to the Act on Bv may best reflect the impact of the recommendations of the Ombudsman and the decisions of the Constitutional Court. As an example, the proposal submitted contains appropriate rules on the indications of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Prosecutor's Office for Legal Supervision of Prison Enforcement in relation to the so-called access opening for the purpose of checking and monitoring the conduct of prisoners in an appropriate place. The Code of Criminal Procedure has now been amended to address legal interpretation problems and regulatory shortcomings since its entry into force. Such amendments include, for example, the inclusion in Be. of the regulation of concealed assets, the adaptation of the use of the code to the law on judicial experts and the law on legal activities, or the regulation of which legal institutions may be used before a suspect is questioned in relation to a person who may reasonably be suspected of committing a criminal offence. Dear House, In short, I would just like to refer to the laws of criminal law which are closely linked to the content of criminal law, but not to criminal law. As an example, one of the objectives to be achieved in the re-regulation of the facts of money laundering in Btk was to maintain the same protection of law, so that acts corresponding to the earlier definition of the economy could continue to be sanctioned as an infringement, for which the necessary amendments are foreseen in the proposal before us in respect of the Violation Act. With regard to the amendment of the law on the police, it should be pointed out that the proposal submitted provides the legal basis for the fact that the Be is to collect confidential information under the law of the police. it may also take place for the purpose of verifying and protecting the information provided by the co-operating party used on the basis of this information. Finally, I would like to mention that the third major aspect of the bill, the amendments to sectoral laws, was necessary in order to bring the concepts used by the background legislation referring to Btk into line with the changes made in the criminal financial code. These technical clarifications greatly facilitate a lighter, clearer and safer interpretation of the law. Dear Parliament, I believe that the bill on the House's table is suitable to remedy the problems arising from a timely and comprehensive review of the criminal laws in force. The amendments contained in the proposal can adequately ensure the coherence and effective functioning of the domestic legal system. In view of what has been said, the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.00]]
u2020-04-07-156	Thank you, Congressman. I give it to Congressman Imre Vejkey... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: My turn!]] Yeah, I'm sorry, it's just a different set-up. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, who will give her speech on the pulpit and then Imre Vejkey, László Varga and László Sebian-Petrovski.
u2020-04-07-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/9918 in front of us. There is a general debate on bill No.1 and in this respect I will give my speech as a speaker, but I must respond briefly, for a few words, to what Mr Orbán Balázs said in his last exposure to the salad law. So I would like very much to ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, to translate my words. State Secretary Balázs Orbán said he doesn't understand what we have against salad laws. The problem with salad laws is that, on the one hand, completely alien living conditions are generally regulated in a proposal, the other, which is even more problematic, is that they hide good proposals in order in salad laws in which a lot of proposals are not acceptable to an opposition representative. And since we can only vote on a bill once in unity, they will put us in a position to vote that we cannot vote on new institutions, proposals that are important to citizens, which will move their lives forward, but if we voted on them, we would also say yes to a number of things that we cannot do. Then, in this House, in general, when the opposition is being bullied by pro-government ministerial representatives, they are said to be what the opposition did not vote for, which is possible to be a paragraph of a law consisting of paragraphs 200 to 250. So tell me, please, Mr. Balázs Orbán, that's our problem with salad laws. With regard to this law, I still have a serious problem with its salad law, and that is to say that it amends the most extensive, fundamental legislation, which actually means a new codification. For example, a new Code of Criminal Procedure was created by almost 135. from § 273. Article 138, which, however I count, is, of course, a lot of paragraphs between it. He did all this by not having any professional discussion, and I don't understand why I can't hear the voices of prosecutors, judges and lawyers, or maybe not because they feel themselves again in party-state times, and they think they won't talk about anything, just do what the government wants them to do. The other one is an enormously extensive prison law, the 2013 CCXL. Amendment of Act No 132 from 77. In fact, we are witnessing a new codification. This, I think, is unacceptable. In 15 minutes, it is impossible to make a meaningful commentary on this bill. The virtue of the proposal is that, for example, it finally states that the facts published orally bind the judge to the writing of the case, because, in order, since the press is often present in politically sensitive cases, we have not once experienced that the oral reasoning had anything to do with writtenness at a later stage, and I particularly welcome that this is an absolute grounds for repeal. It is also a virtue of the proposal that, at last hearing the voice of all opposition, profession, parents, victims, in the event of domestic violence, the child protection system should be notified of its own motion and appropriate procedures should be launched; this should be welcomed. I must say, you are very difficult to handle in the structure of the salad law and in your infinite moustache. I will give you just one example: yesterday we voted on a bill in which we voted on the law on organisations with special status. What's going on? Today there is a new proposal in this House, which is also about the same institution. I simply can't imagine the same Ministry presenting proposals, why it couldn't do it, at least to collect and submit every six months proposals for amendments that concern a piece of legislation, and would then be more transparent. I cannot imagine that this is not a problem for those who apply it in the case-law. In paragraph 282, a total of 46 laws are amended in a 264-page proposal, which will be submitted on 31 March 2020. Today is April 7, 2020 and such a terrifying proposal would require an expert even an otherwise qualified representative to fully understand the proposals for amendments and the effects of the proposals for amendments. And why do I say that? I am saying this because the general justification is that the practical experience of the great codes in the last decade justifies the revision of these laws, and the amendments are justified by the need to be made or, in some places, even refer to decisions in Curia. Here's the problem. Of course, only the one who doesn't work doesn't make mistakes, but I don't think it's appropriate to modify such large codes every 3-4 years in such a wide range that I don't think practice alone would justify. It is a question of the arrogance and defiance of the Fidesz government and its refusal to listen to any opposition or professional proposal in general that always leads to the fact that in practice there are a lot of problems, there are no applicable laws, there are conflicting provisions, and there is a kind of legal uncertainty that, of course, creates a forced signal to the government after a time. So what I would like to say is that this proposal, which lies before us, is not merely trying to address the problems arising from the practice itself, but it is the inadequate approach to legislation that brings the government so far. In this proposal there is a rather pronounced element, which appears in the general justification and then in the details, which, in part, could be said to be justified, but I think that in this political situation, which Fidesz has created over the last ten years, is quite, to say, to be rejected. It states in the explanatory statement that persons with a public service mission receive special protection, as there have been a number of legislation on this in recent years, but the opposite, and increased criminal liability, has not been sufficiently regulated. I'm shocked at that. Well, the reason a paramedic gets more protection as a public servant is because he often meets people who are drunk or intoxicated or aggressive, who, in spite of helping them, attack them, and the legislator could not do anything else to keep people from doing so, giving the paramedic increased protection. And the counterpoint is that the paramedic's criminal liability will be higher? ! When? In what case? Well, I'm sorry, what's with the thinking? You just can't accept that! Well, isn't it, if you're talking about responsibility, you're saying that if I give you increased protection, you have a more professional responsibility? Isn't that the counterpoint? Is criminal liability counterbalanced by this? Well, you just can't accept that. Not to mention, and since this issue is already raised, could it not rather be the government's top priority to create high-quality working conditions for people with increased protection who provide public services? Wouldn't that be the first task? Is their criminal liability the most important thing in the world? I just don't understand this thinking. The police law is modified long enough by this proposal, the most characteristic element of which is to discuss the detailed rules of the snitch system. I have to say, it's very important for me, too, that crimes are being investigated, but, to be honest, I've always been sick of snitching, because that means a quality of life, a personality, an approach, and it's often more abused than not. [[19.10]] So I have to say, when I read this chapter, I got a little chilly. I don't want to talk about it anymore right now. The proposal is also about international legal aid in criminal matters, the essence of which is to ensure that non-Hungarian citizens who have their address in Hungary can be granted to Hungary and that we do not have to hand it over to other countries. Surely in everyday practice, as we are a European Union country, this problem may have occurred, and the person who lives here as a living life, but is not a Hungarian citizen, but an EU citizen, I also think that in this way we need to protect him, even if he is committing a crime. Next up is the Water Transport Act. There is a new element in the legislation, and this is that the master cannot be one who has committed certain types of crimes. I'm sure that's true. I think it's more important for a captain to be able to pilot a ship. I hope that is the first and most important condition. It is also a fact that a man with a criminal record and a certain type of crime may not be a master, especially because he is doing his job across borders and does not abuse it to do something illegal for the future. Due to the cessation of the crime of the economy, legislative harmonisation was needed, and this proposal has introduced a number of legislative sites. There's no reason to argue with him. The Tax Office Act comes again, where the covert work of the NAV investigators is the subject of this proposal. I am pleased that there are such institutions, but I would also like to see tax collection at least as effective. That's 53. In paragraph 3, the Btk. is replaced by the following: 399. It amends its section and I must say that it has been an explicit pleasure to read this rule system, since this is about who is committing money laundering. As I read these extremely richly formulated facts, the situation appeared before my mind when it was communicated to participants in hiding assets not so legally acquired in the last ten years; I hope, at some point, there will be a mass communication of these suspicions. Having a ten-year limitation period for money laundering at the highest value due to the penalties laid down in the proposal, I hope that we will see that this new set of facts will also benefit society. There is another positive element of this proposal, and this is that a few months ago there was a proposal on metal trade when finally, after 30 years, the legislator thought it would be okay to link this metal trade to a permit, because it is a very important area of black trade. An amazing amount of hidden property was accumulated during the metal trade. At the time, authorisation was defined in the proposal, and I said even when the proposal was being negotiated that I think that this market is what someone needs. Well, see, there's proof of that. The authorisation of a metal trade cannot be granted to a person who has committed several types of crime as proposed. I really don't mind that metal dealers have such an immaculate lifestyle, although, in my experience, that's not really the characteristic of metal dealers from certain social groups, but now it's time for spotless people to do metal trading. Not only do I have a feeling now that I'm sure someone needs this market, so it's been regulated into a licensing procedure, and that's why metal dealers need to be spotless. Finally, what I would like to mention is the 2013 CCXL on Prison Enforcement. Amendment to Act, which is set out in section 55 of this proposal. I must say, I do not understand either this or the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, why it could not be put into a separate proposal. Nothing, but there is no link between these legislative proposals and the regulation of other laws that should have been done in this way. Sometimes, of course, when something is urgent to the government, three to four stages of proposals are submitted and discussed, and now Bv is complete in a paragraph above 280. And in. There are amendments to the Code, not technically justified, not negotiated. I would like to see such enormous amendments brought here already during the Coronary Virus epidemic, at least promise me that they will not continue to do so in a few years, and here they may finally have completed the amendment of these codes, because the case law is to the extent that there is no legal certainty which, as a result, will cause legal uncertainty in the citizens. And that, I hope, is not the government's goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-04-07-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, who will be followed by Mr László Varga and Mr László Sebian-Petrovski and Lórán Keresztes.
u2020-04-07-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/9918 amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws Bill No.1, especially the new Btk., the new Bv. It contains amendments to ensure the coherence and efficiency of the legal system based on practical feedback, on the basis of law and the review of the new Law on Law Nos Be and the related Law on International Criminal Cooperation and Legal Assistance, the Law on Police, National Security Service, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Violations. So these legislative amendments were not theoretically made behind a desk, as has been said, but specifically on the basis of practical feedback from law enforcement. Ladies and Gentlemen, First, let's look at the amendments to Btk. The bill amends the penalties for offences relating to cash substitute payment instruments, in which there is a high penalty for the misuse of cash substitute payment instruments in accordance with EU requirements and for facilitating the counterfeiting of the cash substitute payment instrument. The bill clarifies the facts of the terrorist act in order to ensure full consistency with the Counter-Terrorism Directive. The bill also extends the extended confiscation of property to facilitate illegal residence for criminal purposes. The concept of a foreign official is clarified by the bill as recommended by the OECD. The bill will carry out a complete re-regulation of the facts of money laundering and the economy, where the bill will assist in the effectiveness of criminal law instruments against ancillary criminal offences in the interest of property, in addition to extending the content of the subject-matter of money laundering, in a more transparent and consolidated manner, by merging the economy with the additions required by the EU standard and by restructuring the rating system. The bill also eliminates legal interpretation difficulties, corrects regulatory shortcomings by supplementing the situation of the prison escape with the factual element of the detention of offences and the escape from the enforcement of the infringement procedure, clarifies the facts of corruption offences and clarifies the concept of a person providing public service. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let's watch the Bv. amendments to the law! The bill contains new rules to monitor the detention of prisoners and to monitor their conduct. The bill regulates bail on a captive mobile phone. The bill provides for the possibility of obtaining information that contains data in the event of the prisoner's leaving the institution. The bill will allow more extensive involvement of offenders who commit crimes against the freedom of sex. The bill strengthens the child protection warning system by informing the prison of the expected or actual release of the sentenced person by the child protection system. [[19.20]] The bill introduces that any dispute arising from the work of prisoners should apply in accordance with the rules of labour lawsuits. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, let's look at the modifications to Be. The bill sets out what legal institutions may be used before suspects are questioned in relation to the person against whom there is reasonable suspicion. The bill removes the limited legal situation of the trustee so far and gives him the right to represent him throughout the procedure. The bill clarifies that not only a lawyer, but also a European Community lawyer and an employed lawyer, an employed European Community lawyer, can act as a defender. The bill states more clearly that service to the counter-interested person does not allow for the use of the service fiction. The bill clarifies the specific rules for the interpreter and the translator that differ from the rules on experts. The bill clearly states that it also provides the legal institutions that can be used to protect the undercover detective to the cooperating persons. The bill places the regulation of a covert instrument that can be used to collect classified information in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The obligation to request information on your customs and tax files to be subject to a prosecutor's permit will be terminated by the bill. The rules on the amount of redemption replacing the seized item, the amount resulting from the sale and the amount of redemption replacing the thing placed under the seal are specified in the bill for the benefit of the victims. The bill is the new Be. It also implements clarifications and facilitations on the administrative rules for simplified compensation on the basis of the experience of law enforcement in compensation cases which have been initiated since its entry into force. The bill clearly regulates that the court may derogate from the prosecution's motion and complement its shortcomings. Ladies and Gentlemen, In my lead speech, I went to the three main criminal laws, not wishing to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner has already said in his expozee. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/9918. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-160	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to notary László Varga, who will give his speech on the pulpit, followed by László Sebian-Petrovski and László László Keresztes.
u2020-04-07-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here at this slowly late hour, in the time of the coronal virus threat, we are discussing this extremely complex, complex proposal, which is, as we say, a salad law, since it has been said here that 46 laws are being amended and amended through 282 sections by the honourable government. Obviously, he is proposing to change a whole criminal procedural legal environment, almost a new code, and the Bv. law is also very deeply amended. I am saying that this is a proposal of a volume that is extremely difficult to deal with in this way. Even to my esteemed colleague Vejkey, this speech gave me the opportunity to list what it actually concerns. I put this on the table in particular, and the exposé has obviously been said, and the main speaker of Fidesz has also said what he has to say, because it is not entirely understandable to me that the haste in this matter is not fully understood, even if several points are eligible, because the law will formally enter into force on 20 November 2020 and the vast majority of the provisions will enter into force on 1 January 2020. So it would certainly have been possible to break down this material, so let us say, thematically, to negotiate in several proposals and to engage in wider social and professional discussions on this subject. Although the secretary of state mentioned this here in the expo, the information of my opposition colleague before me was also that there is criticism in this. He'll answer me, I guess, in his locker room for this thing. Obviously, in such a wide-ranging amendment, opposition representatives can actually do what they can do to say certain points with which they have reservations and problems. I think that both the expozé and the pro-government representatives have said a lot about the specific facts. This is our chance. Yes, Mr Secretary of State said that a comprehensive review is necessary from time to time. I understand that. Several Btk.-fact positions justify this. I also understand that the recommendations of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also justify certain amendments, which he mentioned. In addition, let us put on the table that a significant part of the amendments are also justified by compliance with EU law, by following the amendments contained in the Framework Decisions. At the same time, and here my first very big problem is I do not understand what kind of certificate you are actually issuing at the time about the quality of government law preparation, what we can conclude from the fact that one and a half years is the new Be. After its entry into force, Section 138 states that it is appropriate to amend Be. It therefore entered into force on 1 July 2018. What legal certainty do you think this is? What does this say to those who are required to work within the framework of the legislation you apply? This is obviously a serious criticism of the government that there is practically a new codification. While the government's rhetoric is always in favour of strict criminal policy, it has repeatedly improved criminal statistics as a result of a significant increase in the infringement threshold. A number of speeches have referred to this here in the Parliament in recent years. This trend continues in the present case. In the case of customs violations, the infringement threshold increases significantly, to five times, i.e. 500 thousand HUF. Nothing really justifies this magnitude, unless it is possible to improve criminal statistics here, if not at the previous level. Clearly, this is not what makes people feel safe. The Be. 25. §2 provides that the prosecutor's office supervises the legality of the reconnaissance and controls the investigation. One of the main cancer threats of Hungarian criminal proceedings in the shadow of NER is referred to in the proposal 138. §2 of the Act on the Law of the Republic of Croatia on the Law of the Republic of Croatia on the Law of the Republic of Croatia on the Law of the Republic of Croatia on the Law of the Republic of Croatia, 25. It adds the following paragraph: the superior prosecutor's office supervises the exercise of the supervisory and management powers of the prosecutor's office. The explanation of this is given as follows, and here I would quote literally the explanation. .. The Whale.. 12-13. In general, §2 of the Act empowers the superior prosecutor to instruct the subordinate prosecutor to choose the necessary measure. Therefore, there is a possibility, which, in the event of detection of an infringement, is in fact an obligation that the superior prosecutor has detected for any reason, but Be. the measure falling within the competence of the subordinate prosecutor shall be decided in substance by the superior prosecutor. In such a case, the enforcement of your decision may only take place indirectly by order of the subordinate prosecutor, which, in particular in the event of an infringement, renders immediate intervention impossible. In view of this, the proposal provides for the possibility of direct intervention by establishing the supervisory powers of the superior prosecutor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is what the explanatory statement is saying, making clear your intention in this particular situation: to directly intervene in criminal proceedings, therefore, in this way. [[19.30]] Furthermore, from our perspective and from the perspective of the MSZP fraction, the submitted bill does not remedy any errors that have previously been criticised by Be, which took effect on 1 July 2018. I am thinking of neither the powers of the prosecution nor of the gathering of confidential information, and of the criticisms and amendments mentioned in the guarantees of the use of concealed instruments. This kind of modification package doesn't solve anything. And what I said about the superior prosecutor's office and the amendment is the main argument that we cannot support this package. Although one argument in itself may be that each of the 2082 sections is judged equally by an opposition representative. Obviously, that's not gonna happen. It is quite simply unworthy that we have to decide so many stages and so many different relationships at the same time with the push of a button. This was also mentioned by my opposition fellow Member, that this is often used against us. Obviously, they put unacceptable proposals in such a package of laws and, of course, eligible ones. As I said, we believe that a number of other proposals on EU harmonisation, made by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, can be supported, but I can say in summary that, as long as Péter Polt is the Attorney General, we will certainly not support a proposal that gives superior prosecutors an unlimited opportunity to intervene directly in criminal proceedings. Therefore, we cannot accept this package of proposals in this form. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-07-162	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovski, on behalf of DK.
u2020-04-07-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am in a terrible situation, because both my fellow Member László Varga and my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said the three basic starting remarks I made about the bill that I prepared for my speech today; on the one hand, that this is a terrible big material, which I looked at about a week ago, less than a week ago. The processing of this and the turn on of experts was indeed a trying task. We have certainly understood and dealt with a lot of things, but I do not say that this can be a normal process of business, that it needs more time, I think, for any party, for any Member. My second comment, which I have just said, is that if I look at the Be.- amendments that came into force in 2018, which were already adopted in 2018, I see a lot of things in it that are actually bug-fixing, if you like, which is good, and we are happy and everything that can be improved, we will improve, but at the same time we will find out how prepared that law was then; how matured it was, and that there is no possibility that there is something working behind it, I mean that what is going on permanently in government legislation and proposals may need to take more time to prepare for these more effective laws. And finally, Andrea Varga-Damm's comment on the salad law as a genre; DK is in the same position as Jobbik, so a number of proposals can be supported in this package. I am going to say one or two things, which are absolutely positive, forward-looking, eligible, but there are one or two, and the proposal is mixed with one or two proposals that are quite unsupportable, and this can even prevent DK from supporting this whole bill and package, for example. For example, a forward-looking, good proposal is - I would also like to make a reference - the Water Transport Act is also being amended. It tightens the moral standards of ship captains. It is likely that this is a consequence of Mermaid Tragedy. Very good, very supportive, we need it. I have been mentioned by the speakers in front of me that the warning system for child protection is also changing, and also in the area of domestic violence, it is as if we are making some progress. We miss the adoption of the Istanbul Convention in each of our speeches. I have to say it now, but of course we are happy every time there is progress in this area, one step at a time. So, there are good, forward-looking, positive parts of this bill. But I'm telling you, I've written four or five, which we have a serious problem with, and that prevents us from supporting this whole package. One: 167. We see in Section 2 that in the case of a person who may be well suspected of committing a crime, if they assume that the crime is in progress, this will allow him to be intercepted, if I remember correctly. It's a concern for us in this way. We don't see it as guaranteeing that it can always be okay. I don't have to say that I think that in the last ten years, there have been cases of criminality that I shouldn't say against the people on the left who were then finally acquitted by the courts, or are the criminal cases still pending, and it turns out that I should be very careful how to put it? At certain levels of prison execution or justice, perhaps they were more interested in them than they were in the case, as was otherwise well founded, I put it very delicately. Here's another one: 180. I see an amendment in Section 2 that creates the possibility that the alleged perpetrator, who is assumed to be a criminal... may be used in the course of an investigation against him by virtually any means. Once again, we do not see the guarantees that would prevent this abuse in these points. There has also been a reference to this point, but from a different perspective, this paragraph 240, which states in the proposal that the perpetrator who has arrived in Hungary in the framework of surrender or other criminal assistance cannot be questioned as a suspect, cannot be used as a coercive measure, can not be charged with the crime committed prior to arrival in Hungary. Well, it certainly came to mind about this point, Nikola Gruevski, as if he were to be protected by this provision and people in a similar situation. It's the wrong person to think wrong, I can see Mr. Secretary's face, but that's our problem with this point. It's 242. § 2 states that the knowledge of the case files may take place for the suspect and the defender up to an hour before the beginning of the trial. We find that awfully small. Obviously, neither is the law, and I think that's what you want as a general rule, or that's your main goal, to push everything over here, but the fact that you're giving us the chance is in no way to be supportive of us. Finally, it amends two separate laws, but in fact it is the same, they come from the same branch that it will be possible, after the adoption of the law, to have your tax without prior prosecutor's permission or customs secrets, to say so badly. The D.A. can second-guess it. Once again, we do not see warranty terms that this is not an opportunity for some kind of abuse. For one hundred words, this law, in addition to many points of progress, cannot yet be supported because of these objections. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-07-164	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said.
u2020-04-07-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Almost every speaker in the debate raised opposition points to the fact that we are talking about a salad law, so if we look at the structure of the law itself, these amendments include, in particular, other legislation relating to the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings. [[19.40]] What my fellow Member László Varga mentioned was also mentioned in the expozee: after a year of preparatory work, we presented this proposal to this House, in which representatives of both the Bar Association and the Public Prosecutor's Office took part, and on the basis of practical experience, they proposed minor amendments to the new law on criminal proceedings that allow for even clearer and even smoother application. So what we really need to say is that a kind of recognition of the quality of the new criminal law is that there was no need for a fundamental change. There were minor comments, such as comments on metal dealers. Technically, this regulation has been in place before, but only because of a clarification, it is necessary that this is included in the proposal. I would like to point out that this is specifically a professional material that is in front of us. So you don't have to ask the man on the street about it, but you do ask the law enforcement people who use these laws every day, and their proposals are incorporated here. With regard to the entry into force that we have time to negotiate this law: in a normal timetable, we can talk about the law before the House. I think that we need to give more time to enter into force because it is not enough to publish this law, but obviously we need to prepare the law enforcement organisations, whether we are talking about the court or the prosecution, or even the law firm needs to know the amendments that they will act after the entry into force. There was a question of legal certainty. It is just the past one and a half year period that proves that the new law on criminal proceedings provides sufficient legal certainty, that the proceedings will be completed sooner, so the kind of waiting that we have attached to it has worked. We have introduced new legal institutions, but no general or major problems have arisen. At the prosecutor's office it was said that, in practice, judicial supervision now appears to be in a written form and within the framework of criminal proceedings. So this is a guarantee, because it can only be applied in writing and only in the event of a violation of law, as opposed to a general rule of law, which is practically not recorded and cannot be documented within the context of the case in question. So this was a previous demand, which is shown here in the bill. For example, the increase in the threshold for infringements has also occurred in law enforcement, and even in the tax administration procedure, fines, interest and other forms can be sanctioned for the types of infringements that are present and, in fact, pushes the higher threshold for more serious crimes when the rules of criminal proceedings actually apply. Water transport has indeed been a clarification in this case, so it has not been generated by concrete cases. In connection with the wiretapping, my fellow Member, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, mentioned that just when the law on criminal proceedings was passed, when we were sitting here, it was a achievement that, in practice, only within the framework of criminal proceedings, a wiretap can be made with a judicial licence which the court can then use and apply in criminal proceedings. So this kind of clarification was precisely intended to raise the guarantee rules to a higher level in the adoption of the new law on criminal proceedings. So this will not change in the future either, and in all such evidence, evaluation, tools, so in the use of concealed assets, I would stress this, the control of the judge of punishment will appear, so practically all this ensures that they are not used unlimitedly as investigative tools. There was a little comment here on the handover. It was said, but Gruevski was not handed over to Hungary, so I don't think this parallel will hold up here. I hope that, in the course of the debate, either in the committees or with subsequent amendments, those comments can also be made by opposition groups, which may not be considered acceptable. I would also like to stress that we regard the proposal before this House as a specific professional proposal, and we would like to continue the debate in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1996 21st edition on territorial development and spatial planning. Legislative bill amending Act No 1/2014 on the National Development 2030 National Development and Regional Development Concept The joint general debate on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision and the proposal for a decision on the territorial detachment of the Central Danube High Area until closure. Government referrals T/9928, H/9929. and H/9930. are available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Rákossy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-04-07-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Contrary to the period of governance before 2010, the government pays particular attention to the development of all regions of the country. Before 2010, development policy measures contributed only slightly to the development of individual areas, and development policy did not promote territorially balanced development, but rather strengthened the detachment of certain areas. Economic and social disparities increased to a demonstrable extent before 2010. In order to reverse these negative developments, the government has taken a number of significant measures to reduce territorial differences over the last ten years. The domestic economy has been in a balanced and sustainable growth path since 2013. In 2018, the rate of growth reached 5.1 percent, which continued in 2019. The government measures taken in recent years, especially the government's competitiveness programme and the investment-enhancing economic environment, have led to growth primarily through employment and increased investment, and from the production side, industry, construction and the service sector have also supported expansion. Effective use of EU economic and territorial development resources, the operational programme for economic development and innovation, the GINOP, the operational programme for territorial and urban development, the TOP and the competitive Central Hungary operational programme, VEKOP have helped the dynamic development. The National Assembly adopted the National Development 2030 National Development and Territorial Development Concept in 2014, which prioritises territorial development and catching-up goals. These objectives will be effectively validated by these government co-financed development programmes for 2014-2020. The concept sets out a vision for national development policy by 2030, with comprehensive and specific objectives, aligning sectoral and territorial development objectives. The concept provides guidance for priority territorial development objectives, priority areas and, on the basis of a number of economic and social statistics indicators, the government defined the so-called beneficiary districts in a regulation, which could benefit from development benefits, for example, from the allocation of EU funds. For the sake of economic convergence, the government has established free business zones based on beneficiary districts, in which small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from tax relief, as well as one of the target groups of non-refundable support for the operational programme for economic development and innovation. The national development and territorial development concept, as well as the Regional Development and Regional Planning Act, name two other areas with so-called priority regional status due to their national regional development significance: in the Balaton Featured Area and the Tokaj Wine Region, regional development councils operate in cooperation with the government and local actors. Both regional development councils are effective in supporting the development of their regions and settlements, making a significant contribution to their targeted and effective development, and providing an excellent forum for regional consultations. [[19.50]] Due to its long-term effects on the region, all these measures and institutional fora are well integrated in the Central Duna Menti Featured Area to be designated by the Parliament, which is intended to ensure a coordinated management of regional development and sectoral intervention needs arising indirectly through large investment in the Central Danube region. The Central Danube region brings together a total of 98 settlements. The Central Danube Development Council, which is to be established on the basis of the bill, will facilitate the coordinated preparation of planned developments in this area, the consistency of synergies between developments, and the long-term utilisation, further utilisation and sustainability of results. Government efforts are aimed at the coordinated development of less frequented areas, which are in many cases further away from the important industrial centres of our country, which are still considered to be the edge of the counties, separated by the Danube. The Central Danube region is primarily the Danube Valley area and the common areas of the settlements of Hungary and Kiskunság which cooperate more closely along the principles based on tradition. The priority area is located in three counties: Bács-Kiskun, Fejér and Tolna. The region, which has been an internal periphery in previous decades, has an interest in strengthening common values and cooperation. The central settlements of the region are the cities Szekszárd, Paks and Kalocsa, in which there are also some smaller towns, and many more slowly developing rural and sometimes socio-economically less developed settlements. Government efforts are aimed at reducing territorial development disparities within the region, exploiting regional development potentials and coordinating development implementation. The planned developments will also serve the industrial, economic and social innovation of the Central Danube region, which will also contribute to the long-term improvement of the region's ability to attract capital and its tax resources. The commitment to make the Central Danube region a priority development area is also confirmed by the fact that there will be a large number of labour needs during the construction of the planned investments in the region, most of which will be intermittent. This will mean specific economic development, institutional development and institutional cooperation, which will provide the right foundations and opportunities for achieving long-term sustainable territorial development. In addition to the development of Paks in the Central Danube region, other developments will take place over a ten-year horizon: construction of a new Danube bridge of outstanding importance for the national economy; renovation of railway lines, road development, road renovations, port development, and urban infrastructure development in health, public education, vocational training, retraining, public security and tourism development areas. Along the lines of each development, a number of additional investments are needed in order to accommodate the workforce, to set up the establishment of the established entrepreneurs, to develop public works, to increase public security, to housing and preparing the workers of public organisations that are active in the region. The Paks-Kalocsa Bridge, which was built in 2023 in the Central Danube region, provides further opportunities for the coordinated development of the settlements on both sides of the Danube, which also connects the so-called NUTS level 2 territorial units. In order to make use of expanding infrastructure capacities in the longer term, to maintain development results, to attract new investment opportunities to the region, it is necessary and justified to treat the Central Danube region as a territorial unit. The development needs of the region's internal development differences and the effects of large investments in the region such as the construction of Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the implementation of the new Danube Bridge are projected to affect a specific urban circle. The region, for example, currently includes Paks, a city with excellent indicators, a few more slowly developing cities around it, and settlements that are slowly developing, sometimes suffering from socio-economic difficulties. Increasing the cooperation of settlements, transforming the region into a real territorial unit, involving the areas involved in territorial and regional development, and making greater use of the opportunities and opportunities of settlements. In the development and cooperation phase following the completion of large public investment, it is necessary to support previously implemented infrastructure and human institutional capacities affected by changing functions by introducing new modes of exploitation and to facilitate their continued maintenance. It is essential to expect sustainability to be reflected in each design phase, but the management and preparation of changing functions in this specific area requires even more complex coordination. The renewal of the system of basic regional infrastructure such as energy, water, transport networks, training systems, housing, agriculture, tourism services, social and health care, but also the long-term sustainable development of the administrative and other services requires a comprehensive regional approach and territorially proportionate planning and development. It is necessary to develop the counter-poles to ensure a balanced industrial and economic development structure in the region in the future. In the coming decades, an appropriate regional ecosystem for territorial development, climate protection, business development and innovation activities should be developed, able to identify synergies and make effective use of development opportunities in order to strengthen each other. The harmonious development activity requires a regional approach, continuous development cooperation, effective organizational coordination from central and local, regional, county and government actors. This requires the development of wider regional cooperation, the strengthening of the existing network and the operation of the professional regional development organisation. The very diverse nature of development activity is linked to domestic and EU development opportunities, specific regional features and the management of the development gap within the region support the idea that, for the EU budget period of 2021-2027, regional planning could be best carried out by a regional development council. Dear Parliament, The three closely interlinked individual motions to be discussed, as set out in the Government's decision on certain tasks relating to the detachment of the Central Danube Strategy, identify and limit the Central Danube Strategy, and the bill before the House will help to establish the Central Danube Development Council as a High Regional Development Council, with the re-regulation of the chapter of the Regional Development Councils of the Regional Development and Regional Planning Act. The joint adoption of the three motions will lead to the achievement of the objective. Allow me to address all three legislative proposals in a few words. The first is the proposals for a parliamentary decision on which let me inform you that the priority areas for territorial development and spatial planning are adopted by the Parliament by decision on the basis of the Act on territorial development and spatial planning. The priority area is set out in the Parliamentary Decision on the National Development and Regional Development Concept, adopted in 2014, which needs to be complemented by the Central Duna Menti Featured Area. Accordingly, the "National Development 2030" concept of national development and territorial development is set out in 1/2014. The amendment of the parliamentary decision places the Central Duna Menti Featured Area among the priority regions of the country. However, the territorial scope of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area is not included in the parliamentary decision on the national concept of development and territorial development, and it is therefore necessary to adopt a new decision. The parliamentary proposal for a resolution on the territorial detachment of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area sets out the geographical scope and territorial detachment of the priority area within the administrative boundaries of the 98 municipalities listed therein. [[20.00]] The proposal includes the involvement of settlements that were, or are, the most isolated settlements of strategic importance in the central part of the Danube, such as defence, nuclear power plant operation; secondly, in recent years and in the near future, the construction of Duna bridges could significantly increase their integration into the economic circulation, the areas of dunapentele, Szekszárd and the planned Dunaszentgyörgy Cape bridges; thirdly, the municipalities of the Danube and Sió sections most affected by the Danube water development needs; and finally, the settlements of the Mezőföld region, which provide a new opportunity for economic development, which have already developed and demonstrated their cooperation. Of the settlements of the Central Danube Menti Featured Area, 28 are located in Bács-Kiskun County, 8 in Fejér County and 62 in Tolna County. Several of the 98 proposed municipalities have significant development needs, as nearly half of the settlements are located in 44 beneficiary districts. Within 44 settlements, 1 settlement is located in a district to be developed, and 37 settlements are located in a district to be developed with a complex programme. The 44 municipalities cover 40% of the total area of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area, and the proportion of inhabitants living here represents more than 32 percent of the total population of the Central Danube Menti Featured Area. The proposed amendment to the law before the House is the current Regional Development Act III. It has been presented in the framework of Chapter III of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which lists regional development bodies, including regional development councils, as well as their tasks. With the adoption of the bill, we want to achieve a more uniform and robust structure of the existing legislation on regional development councils; to make the tasks assigned to regional development councils and key development councils more transparent; to clarify the background and reason for the high status of each regional development council; to strengthen the role of the country's priority development areas in territorial planning and the implementation of development plans; and, finally, to achieve greater coherence between the territorial development objectives and the use of domestic and EU funding. At the same time, the government also takes the emphasis on enforcing the principle of subsidiarity as a priority. This means that, as far as possible, the closest levels to those laid down in the subsidiarity principle should be used to address these tasks. In line with the objectives presented, the bill aims to re-regulate the chapter on regional development councils and expands the priority regional development councils with the Central Danube Development Council and sets out its membership composition. The bill clearly sets out the tasks that all regional development councils and the priority regional development councils should carry out as additional tasks. In order to increase the efficiency of territorial policy and development policy, the Minister responsible for regional development strategic planning will be included among the permanent guests of all regional development councils and the representative of the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds will be invited to attend the meetings of the three Priority Regional Development Councils. Having established a new priority regional development council with a clear mandate in addition to the two existing Balaton Development Councils and the Tokaj Wine Region Development Council, the proposal also sets out the constitutional requirement that the central budget will contribute to the costs of running the Central Danube Development Council. Based on the required tasks of the bill, the priority regional development council to be established will, inter alia, regularly examine and assess the social and economic processes and the environmental status of the region, identify its development needs; develop the regional development concept and programme of the region in accordance with the national development and territorial development concept; conclude agreements with the relevant ministers, ministries on the financing of the regional development programme; monitor the implementation of the tasks of the EU development programmes in the region; contribute to the implementation of operational programmes' tasks in the region in the event of a government decision; give an opinion on the territorial development concept and programme of the departments in the area of competence; cooperate with relevant regional development councils, county authorities and metropolitan cities in the framework of appropriate agreements on specific development issues; and, of course, regularly report on its activities. For the Danube Development Council, the most important task of the coming period will be to develop the concept and regional development programme of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area, in line with the national development and territorial development concept and based on the developments already mentioned in the introduction. The regional development concept defines the vision of the priority area for a long period of 14 years, the principles of the development of the region, its overall objectives, the instrumental and institutional system of development. The Spatial Development Programme sets out, for the medium term and for 7 years, the regional development target system, identifying development priorities and interventions, monitoring and evaluation plans, cooperation between organisations involved in implementation and the objectives to be achieved. The two regional development plans provide the basis for a targeted, integrated and efficient use of EU funds for the priority area domestic and EU development period 2021-2027, thereby contributing to reducing territorial disparities. Dear Parliament, The government's development visions are integrally linked to the reduction of development differences within the region, the prevention and proper management of emerging and growing differences due to various developments and development gaps. I am sure that the legislative proposal and the adoption of the two proposals for decisions before you will serve to achieve our national objectives, contribute to the stability and sustainable development of the country and increase competitiveness. I therefore ask you to support and adopt the bill and the two proposals for decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Peter Ovadi applauds.]]
u2020-04-07-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-07-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The three proposals before us, as you have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, include Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning. Amendment to Act No 1/2014 on the National Development 2030 National Development and Regional Development Concept amendment of the parliamentary decision and a proposal for a decision on the territorial detachment of the Central Danube Region. The three proposals submitted to the Parliament are 2139/2019 on certain tasks related to the detachment of the Central Danube Special Area. It carries out the task set out in point 2 of Government Resolution No 1. The Government Decision aims to ensure the well-organised and sustainable implementation of the planned developments in the region. In order to ensure proper coordination of developments in the region, it is necessary to establish an institutionalised form of the Central Danube Development Council. The designation of the Central Danube Region and the establishment of the Council should therefore ensure a coordinated management of regional development and sectoral intervention needs in relation to investment along the Central Danube. Government efforts towards the Central Duna Menti Featured Area are aimed at the coordinated development of the less frequented area of Bács-Kiskun, Fejér, Tolna, the three counties concerned, separated by the Danube. Dear House, The aim of spatial planning is to define the long-term, harmonious spatial structure of Hungary and its regions by preserving Hungary's outstanding natural and cultural value, yet in line with the interests of the economy, with a view to sustainable development. The priority regional and county spatial planning plans complement the framework regulation of the national spatial planning plan. Together, they convey national and regional land use decisions to municipalities, of course not distracting local authorities from the right to implement the final land use requirements and construction conditions. [[20.10]] Based on the country's social, economic, sectoral and territorial development needs, the national development and territorial development concept sets out a long-term vision and development policy principles and objectives. The vision of the concept and its target system are set for 2030. On the preparation of the national development and territorial development concept, Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning It is governed by law. The concept gives the development goals in a coordinated manner, taking into account the needs and ideas of the ministries or State Secretariats managing the individual sectors and policies, as well as those of the county authorities and Budapest listed in the county and the capital. Dear Parliament, The parliamentary proposals before us designate the already mentioned Central Danube Menti Featured Area at the administrative border of the 98 settlements fixed there. 28 of the settlements of the region are located in Bács-Kiskun county, 8 in Fejér county and 62 in Tolna county. Among the objectives to be achieved by the proposals is to make the tasks assigned to regional development councils and to the key development councils more transparent, to clarify the background and the reason for the priority status of each regional development council, and to strengthen the role of the country's priority development area in territorial planning and the implementation of development plans. It is also important to ensure greater coherence between regional territorial development objectives and the use of domestic and EU funding. The creation of priority development areas is an important issue in order to achieve long-term sustainable development in areas of importance for the country, in cooperation with local actors, due to its uniqueness and economic importance. Such a priority development area is, for example, the Balaton region and the Tokaj wine region, which is decisive in tourism and natural conditions. In the case of the Central Danube Rescue Featured Area, regional economic development based on energy production justifies the creation of a priority development status. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to mention that there are a number of improvements planned in the Central Danube Area in a ten-year perspective. These include national and local road and rail development, the development of water transport, the construction of bicycle roads, the development of corporate sites and logistics areas, the development of municipal water utilities and waste management, and tourism development and business development. In the light of what has been said, these proposals contain a number of forward-looking provisions for this area, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposals, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-07-170	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-07-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is a huge question as to when both the expozee and my fellow Member Peter Ovádi's speech was written, because in case they hadn't noticed, we have now been in a situation that has to be dealt with for a month now. Of course, improvements are important, and we fully agree with that, but only in the expos and in the speech itself can there be much too much optimism, in the lines that you have read before this House. Appreciating the three proposals, which are closely linked, the two proposals for decisions clearly address the definition of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area, the settlements that belong to it, and are indeed designed to define the Central Danube Menti Featured Area by adopting the parliamentary decision. However, I would like to move on to the bill, because I think that is what is important in this debate. I am always looking for a reason why this was submitted and what could be behind it, which we opposition representatives might be trying to read between the lines. They didn't make it easy because I had to really, really think about it. I will now hold on to one sentence, and that is that the new legislation on the task of regional development councils and the membership of members, so the amended version, defines the election of the President of the Regional Development Council and its Vice-President from among its members. The original legislation that is being amended is not included in this sentence. Why is that interesting, and why did I bring it up in this debate? I usually attend the meetings of the Balaton Development Council, because I think it is extremely important to be aware of the developments at Lake Balaton. There István Bóka, mayor of Balatonfüred, presides over me. If this amendment, which lies before us now, will determine that the President should be elected from among the members of the Regional Development Council, because if I have understood the structure of the legislation correctly, the High Regional Development Council is within the Regional Development Council, which means that he will also be subject to the pass that the President should be elected from among his members. The draft now states that the members of the Balaton Development Council will be the chairman of the county assembly of the three counties that make up the region, plus one representative and one representative of the ministers responsible for the implementation of operational programmes, plus a representative of the Minister for Strategic Planning for Territorial Development at BFT. I have now listed this because I have looked at it, and it seems to me that I am pleased that my fellow Member, Ovádi, is now the lead speaker from Fidesz, Veszprém County Representative, at the Veszprém County Assembly, István Bóka is not a member. My question now will be that if István Bóka is not a member of the county assembly and we accept this legislation, the mayor of Balatonfüred will have to resign from the position of President of the Balaton Development Council. He wasn't in there until now to elect the president from among his members. What's the point of that question? Because we are now seeing the restructuring of the tasks and powers of the municipalities in several legislative amendments, and it is a very important thing that the municipalities, even in the Balaton region, have some say in development, because they see what is most necessary in the region. Is that the question of what will happen to the municipalities? It has been customary so far, but I repeat that I can only confirm this in the case of the Balaton Development Council that the chair is always held by the priority mayors of the region. Before he became the mayor of opposition to Siófok, Mayor Árpád Balázs was president of the Balaton Development Council. When Mayor Robert Lengyel was elected to Siófok, this chairmanship was transferred to Balatonfüred. I don't think that's okay. Local authorities must continue to have a say in drawing up these developments, so that they can get involved in this, because no region can develop without it. And then I'd go back to where I started. Yeah, it's important to improve, but there's another situation right now. For the EU budget cycle, we do not yet know what the future will bring between 21 and 27. The most important thing now is that the emergency ahead of us is resolved as soon as possible. To do this, of course, everyone has to tighten up their belts, and every development has to be carefully thought out, because this is not about wanting two more hotels and three restaurants, but about having a job for people who otherwise work in this area. If we can do this with improvements, then so, but I think that we really need to put these centers of gravity elsewhere. So all I would like to ask you, overall, is that you have understood the law correctly, that you can now choose the President from among his members, what will become of the representation of the local authorities in relation to the Balaton Development Council. I'd be honored if you'd answer that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-07-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, who will be followed by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. [[20.20]]
u2020-04-07-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are in the fortunate position that today we are discussing together these three draft laws and amendments, and so we are discussing the draft law on territorial development, spatial planning, the National Development 2030 National Development and Territorial Development Concept and the Central Danube High Area Regional Deposition Act together. This is important because you are experimenting with and proposing these legislative proposals so that there are as many opportunities as possible in the municipalities associated with and connected to the development of Paks as possible in the framework of the development. Let us basically start from what the Secretary of State has said, and we agree on this, that the decision must be made by the actors closest to the decision, who have the most information to the decision and who are closest to it, and I am therefore pleased that you have repeatedly stressed the principle of subsidiarity. In contrast, I think that this is the solution, and I am not going to go into the laws separately, with the result that only those involved will be left out of the decision-making process. I understand that you will be able to provide examples of which settlements are connected, but basically it should be assumed that the decision is made in the ministry within the framework of the majority of the actors in the direct application of the government. That is why, and I will give you this as an example, because Mr Süli has recently received, as Minister, from the Tolna County Assembly, a mandate on territorial development that was at the time. If I understand correctly, this will apply to him and continue his activities in the same way, so he will not only be a minister but also a key player in development, not only through his direct colleagues, but also personally by making this regional development or regional council a priority and thus being established. There is nothing wrong with stressing that this is in the interests of the 98 settlements. I'm glad to hear it's suddenly important. What raises some questions is that domestic development and coordination of EU funds are considered important. This is generally correct, of course, but the realization of this is usually very unique for you, by having you implement the central decisions, and by putting up with the gifts that you will sooner or later get you there. That's why I have a problem with the fact that I'm an I.D. I'd rather say I don't have a problem with what you've set out to do. As this is achieved, I must say in its personal composition, decision-making and experience gained so far that there are serious doubts that you will really do so in accordance with the intentions stressed. There is indeed a great need for it to function as a transparent organisation. I see that direct government resources will be provided for operation, so they will not only solve the sources of development, but also the functioning of this council. I hope that in this debate and in the next few days we will see what you really want, because in itself the framework would be eligible, but based on the experience and practice so far, I see little good in this. Just because the targeted developments that have been decided, for example, within the framework of the Territorial Operational Programme, are, let us say, from the initial good intentions to the issuance of the immunity rights that we saw yesterday, when committed a specific crime, they have abused this opportunity in a way that is totally unacceptable, and so Parliament has had to deal separately with how these development ideas have been implemented. I therefore expect, from these experiences, that they will try to act with some persuasive force in order that you really want something good to do with this high-level status. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-04-07-174	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2020-04-07-175	Mr President, Dear House, I do not need a particular prosthetics of opposition to conclude that we cannot expect a long debate here today. And not only because we have run out of naphtha in the church of the nation as a result of today's debates, but also because I believe that the proposal before us is a proposal by good experts with good intentions and relatively few ambush situations, with which there would be no problem in the sky beyond the usual political debates. Obviously, there are things we want answers to, but we probably won't get them, that's Parliamentary routine. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have passed history. There are two weeks behind us that not only the opposition expeditions and the pro-government expeditions, but also a part of the bill, let alone being rewritten, I do not mean to say that it is unnecessary, or at least questioned. The next EU budget cycle has been discussed here. What makes any of my fellow Members think it's gonna be like this in the way it's been known to be? The fact is that if we just look at how Europe is now trying to react to the crisis caused by the epidemic, we see that it is essentially unable at European level. What we see is that the nation states are trying, and Germany has somehow been able to put together a EUR 750 billion package for itself, which, in my view, will certainly be enough for economic crisis management, while Italy has a 28 billion, which is only 4 percent of the amount just mentioned. And if we look at the euro area, we see that not only the differences in interest rates between the northern and southern states, but in fact, macroeconomic and financial data suggest a two-speed Europe that could still be put together in 2008 with the various mechanical interventions of the Central Bank, but in today's circumstances it is not possible to do so. And we also see that all this is being tackled by the brutally increased level of pan-European indebtedness, which has increased almost one-and-a-half times over a decade. I would like to make it clear that I understand the numbers of the next EU cycle and that they are being discussed, I am only afraid, and I am sincerely afraid that history will blur this whole thing out, which we are talking about, but the issue of territorial development will not be washed away. What I see is that Hungary needs to master a whole new life strategy and vision in a way that rewrites its entire budget, the difficulty of which is that we will have to invent and decode the new vision without which we will not be able to deal with this issue without thirty years of time. I see that within a self-sustaining Europe, we need to create a self-preservation Hungary, which cannot in any way be a communist, which requires public intervention, but what I see is that we cannot leave any Hungarian county, any Hungarian region, from territorial development to sources of job creation, to investments. And yes, we must develop an economic structure capable of self-defense that can cover the country's needs as much as possible from basic food to building materials. We may have to deal with GDP data a little less, a little more with the human development index, access to health care, access to decent education opportunities, so the real, meaty, existing problems. Once again, I appreciate all the good intentions behind this proposal, but I have a strong fear that the numbers of the next budget cycle will be fundamentally rewritten by what is ahead. I would also like to say that I can speak on behalf of only one of the opposition parties, but for this part the maximum constructivity in this situation towards all sincere, improving proposals. And if we get an explanation of the opposition question that has been raised in connection with this proposal, then I think that there is plenty of legitimate debate here, and this is not an underestimated result in the last years of Hungarian parliamentarism. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2020-04-07-176	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr. Balázs Rákossy, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment. [[Dr. Balázs Rákossy is rising to speak.]] He says yes, so you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-07-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your arguments and, where appropriate, criticisms. If you will allow me, I would like to clarify these in my final comment and ask for your support, together with this, for the adoption of the bill. The Congresswoman rightly suggested why this bill, amendment of legislation, and why we are not dealing with matters that reflect the unfortunate events of the last month. I believe that the bill does have relevance in this dimension, too, because the aim of the amendment is to allow for a stronger, more cooperative economic development in this Danube region in the coming years through good practices, the Balaton Development Council and the Tokaj Development Council, and, of course, they coincide with the not only government but also virtually overall social policy efforts to help and support the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic in the coming years as effectively and effectively as possible in different parts of the country, including in the relatively undeveloped area along the Danube. So, in this respect, it does have such relevance, because economic development, competitiveness, industrial development, job creation is a general, overall social goal to which this instrument can obviously contribute more. As I said, it is the Balaton Development Council and the Tokaj Development Council, which is an example, a good example in front of the government, and it is important that, in addition to the European Union funds, it has, of course, been involved in budgetary resources in recent years, decades, and so will the Danube. I would also like to reflect on Mr Z. Kárpát's comment, who said that the composition, justification and existence of European Union funds are extremely uncertain in this period. It is true that this is true, because we are at a complex time when not only Hungary and the other Member States of the European Union are affected by the coronal virus epidemic, but the new European Commission is in the finale of the adoption of the EU budget, and details are still not yet known, but it is possible that it is likely that it will fundamentally rewrite the budget and the objectives of the budget for the management of the coronal virus epidemic. I am optimistic in this respect, because this is expected to make it possible for Member States to use a simpler, perhaps more flexible cost use, so our national economy and national policy objective is to obtain as much European resources as possible in the next period and, if possible, in a more flexible environment of use as possible, as this will allow us to use European Union funds as much as possible in these three development zones as possible, because let us see that under the current rules these rules of use are sufficiently limited and regulated, and that is why there is a need for complementary use of domestic budgetary resources as well. In addition to the application of subsidiarity, Mr Varju said that it is important that regularity and transparency are also important in relation to the use of EU funds and TOP in the next period. I believe that out of the ten operational programmes in Hungary, which have enabled the use of the 2014-2020 funds in recent years, the use of the funds of the regional development operational programme has been one of the most successful areas of use, since we have used more than HUF 1300 billion in the TOP framework in recent years, and the number of settlements concerned has been 3,200, more than 50 thousand support decisions have been made in recent years. The TOP funds were delivered to the municipalities concerned in two branches: on the one hand, the county-righted cities and the county-righted cities were the recipients of these European Union funds in approximately two thirds, 60% and 40% of the county municipalities, and the county-owned towns, which were smaller than the county-righted city, could use this money. I think that the improvements made, the relatively minimal number of irregularities, reflect the fact that the use of the TOP was good and in the vast majority of cases regular, and that we are therefore thinking that, like the TOP in 2021-27, there should also be a spatial development instrument from EU development funds that can support these settlements and settlements in the county as strongly and as targeted as possible. To suggest to the Member that Mayor István Bóka should resign or not, my good news is that he does not have to resign, because the Regional Development Act now defines the personality composition of all three regional development councils in different ways in the event of the adoption of the amendment. The good news is that the local government and the people's sovereignty are valid for all three regional councils, since the delegation of the county local government delegates, the delegation of the president and the plus one member, is valid in all three regional councils, in the same way that half of the total membership is represented by the local government delegates, and in the case of the Balaton Development Council, President Bóka was appointed as delegate of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Economy, as delegate of the territorial development area, so we expect him to perform this function in the next period. In this respect, therefore, there will be no change in the membership of the Balaton Development Council during the next period. As regards the composition of the regional development council along the Danube, the presidents of the county municipalities and the plus one main delegate will ensure that the municipal delegates in the composition of the entire development council will ensure 50%, and, moreover, that the two working development councils have not been members of the local government, only county municipal representatives. I therefore hope that this will also be a comfort to the Member woman that this will not result in any change. After that, I would like to ask with respect not to mention the arguments listed and highlighted in my expozem and why we consider it necessary for the Government to publish this new development policy instrument in the Land Development Act to support the Honourable Parliament by voting in favour of the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-07-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. For the first time, after the agenda, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came forward with the title of taxation of the oligarchs. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[20.40]]
u2020-04-07-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to restore the additional costs caused by the coronal virus epidemic and our extremely shaken economy, there is no doubt that the position of the representative of the government is well founded on the need to add additional burden to the citizens, companies and various organisations of Hungary the resources to combat the epidemic on the one hand and to restore the economy on the other. If there is a society torn apart in terms of income in Europe, it is the Hungarian society. There is an extremely narrow, extremely rich layer, and there is an extremely poor layer of about 3 million. In principle, the middle class or middle layer among them is also extremely polarised, so it cannot be said that citizens who earn money can be involved in this burden, and rather they need unconditional support. I would like to mention a few thoughts on how the oligarchs in Hungary acquired their wealth, how they realised their huge income from the taxes and purchases of Hungarian citizens. The richest man in Hungary, Lőrinc Mészáros, stands out among them, with 85,6 percent of his revenue coming from EU funding between 2011 and 2018. The Hungarian public procurements, ordered from the budget forints, which his companies received, were HUF 498 billion. I translate for the kind population what this means: a total pension of seven months, i.e. the total pension of 2 million 200 thousand pensioners paid for seven months, and the public procurement from EU funding was HUF 426 billion between 2011 and 2018, which is a total pension of six months for Hungarian pensioners. Are we not surprised that, as opposition parties and representatives, we raise the question that those who have made huge profits out of Hungarian taxpayers' forints or taxpayers' purchases should be involved in this burden in proportion? Even though multinational companies, banks and parties have been defined by the government, it is not possible to miss two very important layers. One is the large corporate sector, which is not multinational companies, because there are many of them, and the other is the hundred richest people in the country, whom we can call the oligarchs. It is important to know that Lőrinc Mészáros's companies have won twice as much procurement as all the other organisations that have applied for these procurements, either from the EU source or from the Hungarian budget. The wealth of the hundred richest Hungarians is HUF 4633 billion. To show you how much wealth this is: one fifth of the one-year Hungarian state budget. If this layer of this 4633 billion fortune only gives 1 percent, so a fraction, to the budget in order to defend itself, then they could at least say that they have returned small money to Hungarian society to somehow overcome this terrible crisis. There is no other way to talk about these issues than to talk about them with emotion. In Hungary, those responsible politicians do not see that all those who have benefited from the Hungarian society, the Hungarian economy, have benefited from the system that has created this democratic system, have benefited from the Hungarian state, so that all those who have benefited from public procurement for the past 10-20-30 years have been beneficiaries of the public procurement of our common property, which we have not even talked about, the unruly amount of state aid that these people and organisations have received from taxpayers' forints, and who today do not approve of these rich companies and individuals who have been able to obtain such wealth from the fair and very, very generous support of Hungarian citizens, from purchases and tax forints, must participate in this crisis with serious amounts... That's what I call them. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-07-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-07-181	Mr President, Dear House, On the opposition side, my right-wing fellow Members have, I feel, recognised the historical responsibility that our opposition role, our weight, has changed fundamentally in a few days. This is very difficult for many, since, in some cases, after ten years of routine, you have to move to a new role in a few days, but what happened in the first days of the crisis caused by the coronal virus? The government did not really find its place in crisis management processes as a lame duck for 7-10 days, then Viktor Orbán regained political control between the government and the opposition side in an internal political debate, but remained in debt with the solutions packages, the intelligent ones and the merits. We got there today, so more than a month after the first registered disease, that the issue of compensation for the loss of wages even arose, and we still do not know, in the absence of the detailed rules, what kind of commitment Viktor Orbán and his team have made. What we see is that in the case of part-timers, on condition that they do not stay at home in any way, 70 percent will be replaced by some kind of division between the employer and the state. It is also a scenario that Hungary will undertake 70% of the 70 percent. We have a much simpler solution to this, and this is MMA. I do not mean mixed martial arts, my favourite sport, because, although close to me, many people are not told by this acronym, but by the Hungarian employment protection fund, which, in my view, must be guaranteed 80% of all outstanding wages for the next six months, regardless of whether they have a job or not. Even if it is still there, it must be guaranteed in the interests of Hungarian families, and even if it is not, 80 percent of the previous income must be guaranteed on a temporary basis. But we also see that, while the government is working with a political spectacle bakery to reassure society next year with small pension cuts, it could be an immediate node of solutions that might not cost money, or not so much, but could bring enormous relief to a wide range of social circles. In the first round, we see that, while we have ordered a commendable loan repayment moratorium, the idea of Jobbik is fortunately achieved, if not in the form we wanted, but it has become something that we appreciate, yet we see that executive bans on small pensions and on the lowest salaries can be included in 33 percent and 50 percent more debt, and this is unsustainable. On the one hand, the bans must be removed, and, on the other hand, in my view, the point where the private institution could be rethinked and that, under normal conditions, those whose financial situation is now indestructible, should be able to turn to, and, in respect of the private institution of bankruptcy, without being placed under financial supervision, we can guarantee that they can put bread on the family table. There's no more important security now. There is a need for a discharge moratorium, especially in the event that, if we ensure, we make up for the loss of wages, it would be expected in return, especially if there is a tax and contribution reduction, so that the employer does not dismiss the employees in bulk. In the public sector, I think it is obvious, so those who work in the public sector should simply be banned, but even in the context of the multi-sphere, we must sit at the table and make sure that the multi-companies operating here with a huge profit rate do retain at least the workforce this year, and this should not be the subject of debate. Thirdly, I also see that we should look at the profits of the Hungarian National Bank in a completely different way. I think it is a commendable phenomenon that, after saying in Parliament for seven or eight years that the profits generated there have to be paid into the budget in the form of dividends, something has finally moved, after an earlier minimum item, the institution is now paying a bigger one, and this will be used in the course of crisis management. I clearly call on the Government of Hungary to intervene, not through public debt, but through monetary policy. Obviously, I am thinking about the modern-day printing of money and the great quotation mark that many countries in the Western world are now using, but the most important way to replace the loss of wages is to finally begin to rebuild the ravaged social safety net. [[20.50]] As opposition representatives, I believe that every elected Member of Parliament has a historical responsibility in this House, and we stand before this responsibility. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-07-182	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi applied for a post-meeting speech:. Believe me, they know better what is needed locally. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-07-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last year, when the coronal virus epidemic was only very far away, in the Far East, news flashed that the government was going to touch the trade tax, which was to be withdrawn from the municipalities in some way by restructuring and redeployment. Since then, a lot has happened here in our country. The government believes that in dealing with a coronal virus epidemic, municipalities must bear a very high burden. We must bear this burden by giving them tasks without providing resources for it. What's happening? In recent days, there have been several announcements that a significant part of their own revenue is being taken away from the municipalities. They started this with regard to the car tax. They said that the 40 percent that applied to the municipalities until now should be transferred to the government this year during the next period. The government plans 34 billion forints for the country. Yes, only if we look at this per settlement, it is very, very, very much money for each municipality; it was said here in yesterday's ministerial exposé that this is only 1-2 percent. Yeah, only when you look at the whole budget, it's 1-2 percent, but when you look at what local governments can actually manage, they can actually invest in improvements, they are their own revenue and, most importantly, public revenue. Yes, if you look at this, it's not 1-2 percent, it's a lot more than that. And if we look at what happened today, when Minister Palkovic announced that the tourist tax had been dropped this year, then we are talking about a lot more here, adding up these percentages. Consider an example. In the Somogy County 4 constituency, only 272 million forints are deducted from the motor vehicle tax from the 71 settlements and 110 million forints for Siófok. But let's also put in the tourist tax that the municipalities have been counting on. Yes, we know that tourism has a hook this year, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said so, but all tourism taxes would still have flown into the budget. It was designed with 330 million forints. If I add the two together, it's 440 million, and the total revenue of the 10 billion-dollar city is 5 billion forints. We're at almost 10 percent, which is being taken from the municipality with the money that they can actually make improvements out of. Obviously, there is a lot to be done to control the epidemic, but the necessary investments must not be missed. Let's not forget that there are 70-80-year-old plumbing pipes still in very, very many places. This is no different for Siofok; it is enough to break the road. By the way, the car tax was left by the government, according to the original plans, so that they could do municipal road maintenance, potholeing, painting road signs, and providing a source for this. You just took it away. I ask you, if the road breaks, how will they make it, because they don't give a source of defense. Masks are made locally by seamstress. What kind of world do we live in? ! Giving Macedonia 200,000 masks without the Hungarian citizens, because the pharmacy can't even buy it at a horror price? ! That's something to think about, but very, very seriously. We can see where it's going. And the next one? What are they gonna touch? For business tax revenue. This came up last December, and there was no coronal virus epidemic at that time. But please don't do this to the councils, they'll bleed them out completely. Or is that the goal? You're grounded for October 13th, because people in many cities have finally come to their senses and don't ask for fidesz kings, don't you ask for what you've done in the last ten years by robbing our country, not making any improvements? The municipalities will face a serious, very serious crisis, and this will be your responsibility. If you touch the trade tax, which will decrease as a result of the crisis, it will be the last mercy blow. Don't do it. Please don't do it. Trust me, you know better than to do what you need. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-07-184	Thank you, Congresswoman. After the last agenda, Mr László Varga, Mr President, asked to speak with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-04-07-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have often had the opportunity to thank here in this House health and social workers, workers in community transport, workers in factories, those who do a great deal to make this country work. Today, in connection with an agricultural proposal, I could say that thanks to those who do their job in agriculture, too, they are doing their job to ensure that Hungarian food supply is undisturbed. There may have been less talk about the very serious task that the previous speaker has, in fact, explained in detail how serious work is done in the municipalities by those who do this. The leaders of the settlements, the members of the board, but those working in the offices, those working in municipal institutions and companies do a great deal in the front line of defence to enable individual municipalities to implement the plans they have planned for the coronal virus epidemic, to acquire tools, to operate the basic public services. The municipalities are therefore on the front line, and they cannot count on the government's effective assistance. However, the municipalities must already calculate a huge loss of revenue, I say also the business tax, which, or a significant part of it, was actually planned to be withdrawn by the government, more precisely on the proposal of one of its organs, the Competitiveness Council, but it is a body created by a government. This plan seems to have been abandoned, but in the case of municipalities already affected by the crisis, the first withdrawal of the car tax was announced. By the way, this appeared very quickly in the Gazette yesterday, so it was not really possible for the municipalities to at all state their arguments as to why this revenue is important to the Hungarian people living in Hungary. By the way, let's not forget that 100 percent of the car tax used to be in the municipalities. This is how they were able to make road renovations. It was a very important local income. It was the Fidesz, it was your government that took away 60 percent of this revenue from the municipalities. But this 40 percent is also very important. To talk about my hometown, where I live, Miskolc reported some HUF 450 million in revenue, and this 40 percent, which is a very important basis for the budget. [[21.00]] This may therefore be waived by the municipalities and, in addition to this withdrawal, by the waiver of parking fees and tourist tax without compensation, I say so, because it is clear that otherwise tourism enterprises must be assisted, whether or not they should be taxed, that may be logical, but the municipalities must compensate for this loss of revenue, as well as the income of the parking charges that has been lost. They put the municipalities in a more difficult position. Indeed, it is a little bit as if there were political reasons for these decisions, because the government has much more room for manoeuvre to make decisions, but it has not been touched by large investments that some of the projects in Városliget have already been made here, and I could list other projects, luxury investments, which would have been justified, not involving the oligarchs in bearing burdens, which has also been said before me, and pushing the backs of conflicts here on the municipalities. This is an irresponsible, pointless decision, which also makes defence difficult, because these resources are also necessary for the municipalities, beyond their operation, so that they can be effective in defence and organise local defence. Let us not forget that older care has become much more serious, even more serious tasks for local authorities, and let us not forget that we are in the finale of a seven-year EU budget cycle, when the remaining investments need to be carried out, to ensure their own share. There are also a lot of tasks for local authorities in development policy that are in the interests of all of us, and it is in the interests of all of us to be able to work on these projects locally. The municipalities therefore need more resources and not withdrawals. I propose to all of us, especially the government, that today's statement by the mayors of free cities be read in this spirit. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-07-186	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
