u2020-11-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. The 20th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, General debates are now taking place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation by Mr Lajos Kósa Fideszes, Member T/13653. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There is now a legislative amendment proposal before this House that has already had a precedent for amending the law on prohibited market conduct. This is the same, namely, to help small producers enter the market on the market for beverages, or to prevent large producers from driving their competitors out of the market by administrative and legal means. At the time, in that debate, I indicated that the story was not finished, namely, this spring, when the law on illicit market conduct was amended, I referred to the need to amend the trade law, and now this has happened. The objective I intend to achieve is extremely simple: partly to help the small ones to access the market. It strengthens competition, and it is also good for the big ones that if they are not exclusive in their own market, or that exclusiveness is not guaranteed by quality competition, not by price competition or other services, it is simply common practice in Hungary that large manufacturers have granted exclusive rights or demanded exclusive rights to traders for various perceived benefits. The benefits assumed were that, if we looked at the evolution of subsequent prices, it turned out everywhere that the benefits that the large ones gave to distributors, traders, from the umbrella to the glass to the beer mat, were actually paid by consumers after all. Unfortunately, the lack of competition has resulted in the price of beer, soft drinks and mineral water in which the exclusivity was guaranteed, which was simply higher than in the markets of the neighbouring countries, in markets where the market was opened for small producers, and the exclusion of removal from the market by administrative means. The current proposal also specifically strengthens consumer opportunities or consumer availability. So this is not only about protecting the interests of small manufacturers or maintaining competition on the market, but also about letting the consumer choose whether to go to a restaurant or a festival, where appropriate, from several products. After all, it can easily be that if you do not like the products of one of the large manufacturers, you do not simply get a different product. This is known either from occasional events, festivals, or even from the practice of restaurants. Overall, I believe that the set of rules that I have just presented to Parliament, in consultation with small manufacturers and big ones, is an appropriate tool to maintain competition, an appropriate tool to allow small people to enter the market and to try to expand the supply for consumers. This will be beneficial for both quality and price. We have taken into account the regulatory system of countries in Europe and elsewhere where this process has already been started. I have to say that the changes have been beneficial even in very large markets such as the United States, where competition has been ensured and market entry opportunities for 20 years, and the market share of small producers has reached roughly 10-15 percent in Coca Cola and Pepsi Cola or Coors. But the fact is, even in the Netherlands or Germany, small manufacturers have access to the market, even though there are really large manufacturers. Of course, we are used to it, we Hungarians, that if we go to Prague or Vienna or go skiing to the surrounding countries, then the local Czech, Austrian, German beer is available. It is completely unthinkable to conclude a contract with distributors in Schladming that would push Schladminger out of its own market. But I'm not sure you can get it in the next province, there's something else. In Hungary we are not talking about the lack of tradition, because in Hungary the small breweries have quite a tradition, as even in the Hungarian language there are a lot of sayings, which, by the way, came from brewing or drinking beer, which shows that otherwise there are serious traditions. I don't know if the honourable Members know, but the, who says the toast, how the boots are placed on the table, the, the juice cooler, all these terms come from brewing and beer trading in the Hungarian language from the Middle Ages. Therefore, it is not that there are no small producers here, but that, as long as it was possible to conclude exclusive contracts that forced small producers out of the market through legal and administrative means, it was, of course, very difficult to stop or very difficult to make a living on the market. This applies not only to beer and soft drinks, but also to mineral water and drinking water in Ányos Jedlik's home country, so in a country where we invented the spark water. In a country that is Europe's richest country in the area of local drinking water and mineral waters. And with such tools, the drinking water of large brands, which is produced in mass but which is otherwise of lower quality, drives small producers out of the market, even though this is not the place of advertising the mineral waters marked by the name of Vajna Pávai, or the name Borsodi, are specialities, rarities, and it is a pity that they cannot be bought. [[8.40]] So I think that Hungary can take care to give the small locals, the small producers, the opportunity, the market, not harshly. It is not that we are putting some kind of compulsion into the system, this regulation does allow competition, but otherwise, the little ones must be very much involved in marketing and other means to take advantage of this opportunity. The only thing we've achieved now is that they can't be forced out by administrative means. Overall, I hope that the proposal is supported by the kind Members, and, of course, I am absolutely open to improving amendments or possibly improvements. Let us help competition in the market, help small producers access the market and help Hungarian consumers to choose the best drinks for them from a wide range of options. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-2	Thank you. I'll ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2020-11-20-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make one point, since Mr Lajos Kósa in his presentation gave a detailed justification for the reasons for this bill, so the government supports the bill in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to L. Simon László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, I think that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, has revealed the background to this bill, the reasons for its submission. We all know in this House that this is actually the second stage of a regulatory process, because, thanks to an amendment by my fellow Member, Kósa, the possibility for small-scale breweries in Hungary to gain a market share that is much higher than the current or the usual one. I would like to add one more aspect to what my fellow Member Kósa has said, although to which he has referred in part in relation to beer consumption or catering practices in Austria and in the Czech Republic. It is a cultural custom, I might say, that it is a mentality custom. In Hungary over the last three decades, we have witnessed the fortunate turn of events that we have managed to increase Hungarian wine culture to a great extent, and we have partly achieved it together, producers, regulators, so politicians and consumers in cooperation that if you go to Tokaj and sit in a restaurant, you may well be able to consume good quality local wine. If he goes to Mád, then the Mádians can even say that they are still a separate island inside Tokaj, and there is a good chance that we can enjoy a high quality Mád wine. If we go to Villány, we will experience the same thing, and if we go to Szekszárd, we will experience the same thing, and in the Eger region it is natural to taste a variety of Eger bulls. So not only is the part of the wine culture now after three decades to make good quality wines, but it is almost a prestigious thing to taste local flavours and wines made from local grapes in the HORECA sector. But think about it, since my colleague Kósa referred to the festivals earlier, that we can experience the same thing... [[Antal Csárdi: Not wine! Beer!]] My fellow Member, stop yelling at me! I know you can't stop him from yelling at me. There are eight of us in Parliament, and at least at this point, have a little respect for each other. He'll ask for your word and give you your opinion. So, to continue thinking, in the world of festivals, we see that I am thinking not only of music and cultural festivals, but also of wine festivals, that local flavours and local products dominate. If someone goes to Eger, goes to Sopron, you can see that, say, the local artisans, the local wine orders are the ones who are represented. The local conditions of the wine culture have been strongly strengthened with the development of the wine orders. But not so long ago in Moron I found that the organizers of the Mori Wine Festival, outside of the county or outside the countryside, hardly let in an exhibitor, because they say that anyone who wants to eat Mori wine comes here, and who wants to know what wine they make in the Balaton Uplands, will go to the Balatonfüred or Badacsony Wine Festival. So this is a very important dimension, which obviously has commercial consequences in the HORECA sector, and of course it is linked to the fact that the production of wine in Hungary is much more differentiated than the production of beer, i.e. it is a large number of small and medium-sized plants that add together the quantity and quality that determines and strengthens the country's positions in this market. In the world of beer, we have seen in recent decades that multinational companies that are decisive in these markets have come to Hungary, and as we have witnessed in other sectors, in other areas of the economy, they have also bought up production capacities, they have made serious improvements and investments, that is a fact, but we can see that at the moment either Soproni or Dreher are not owned by Hungary. This is natural and common in the European economic space, and we cannot say that they do not produce excellent merchandise. But, thank God, over the past decade, there's been a process similar to that in the winery that many, many small businesses have appeared. Moreover, it is not what our fellow Member Kósa sets as a ceiling in the bill, and what is included in the legislation is this revenue of HUF 30 billion, which is much lower in turnover, but at the same time it is a top-ranking, high-quality brewing plant. Now, thanks to God, we find that similar movements are taking place in the refreshing market, partly thanks to the support of the government and the EU support system, through the ÉLIP and the GINOP application system, quality small plants have been set up that are suitable for the production of high-quality food products. So this change creates the basis for cultural change that consumers discover local flavours for themselves, products made from local water, using local raw materials or partly local raw materials, which in addition are in some way linked to local identity. Think, fellow Members, of what a great thing it is that Zircen has renovated the old cystic monk traditions, and the Zirc Abbey has its own brewery manufactory! Or think that not so long ago, a few months ago, Pannonhalma was handed over to the Pannonhalma, the new brewery, which appeared next to the excellent winery, which is also based on monk tradition, to the Abbey of Pannonhalma. Think of the fact that the people of Bakony have their own beer, make their own beer, and make their own beer, say, the Bishop of Székesfehérvár, Antal Spányi, and indeed they bring very, very much value to the surface, the tradition behind it, the culture, the possibility of acquiring rich gastronomic experiences. So from this point of view, I am primarily approaching my fellow Member Kósa's extremely important proposal that it can contribute to the appreciation of localities, local flavours, local gastronomic values and the local economy by helping small-scale breweries access to the market in this way. Let me just say one more thing, ladies and gentlemen, on this point, that this can also have a very serious impact on tourism. In our area, we try to connect tourism and gastronomy, and it is true that if we can get the actors in the HORECA sector to place locally made products primarily on their shelves, then this can bring new income to local entrepreneurs later on with returning guests. We also strive, as we have had the EFOTT Festival at Lake Venice for years, to persuade the organisers of the EFOTT Festival to show the local values of the local gastronomic offer. As a result, we can now see this from the perspective of many years, that later these college students, even starting a family, will come back to us, vacation there, hiking there, and tasted at the festival that they liked and would be happy to taste again. So, in fact, we can raise a returning customer, a recurring consumer. [[8.50]] What my colleague Kósa has just said is that it is actually a fine incentive regulation, I think it is very important, but it is also a clear indication to the large brewers that the government considers them to be partners, and the ruling party considers them to be partners, that they actually want to get them to help in the process that, in general, if we look at the size of the market and the revenues, if we look at the volumes, they will not endanger their economic performance and, of course, in this way, will not prejudice Hungary's tax revenues from this sector. I have also been talking to the leaders of Heineken and Dreher about this regulation in recent months, and the lack of understanding or fear at first has clearly changed in a positive direction, I think that my fellow Members, Kósa, have experienced this during their discussions, that there is an explicit openness on the part of large breweries to change here, because they have understood that there is an emerging sector that produces value and quality, and that, by the way, it gives jobs and opportunities to many people who are interested in this business, or interested in this, but they live far away from large brewing plants, they cannot and do not want to work in large production, but they are particularly interested in small-scale technologies. I would like to note to you, fellow Members, that over the last decade, a very good industrial capacity has been built on this in Hungary, and there are two plants that produce technology world-class and which now makes a significant contribution to Hungary's exports, since they can export very good technology with excellent Hungarian added value, which is one of the secondary benefits of this change. There is also a scientific aspect: besides wine training at Szent István University, beer training is now at a high level, and, by the way, not so long ago we were talking about it with Diana Sárdy, Dean of St. Stephen University, when we visited a small brewery together, that they have an incredible openness to cooperate with plants that can be practical training venues for them, and those who master the trade in a professionally built small plant will be able to do their job well in the large factory. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that this is a very good direction, otherwise, according to the Patriot approach taken in Széchenyi, there is an important opportunity for the national economy in this bill. We believe that it is the approach to the heroic era of the Defense Union that has worked behind this bill. Obviously, my fellow Member Kósa has also submitted his first and second proposal with the aim of making sure that Hungarian flavours, Hungarian production capacities, Hungarian industry and small industry continue to develop unbrokenly and that consumers also enjoy it. We also ask traders to see this as an opportunity, not as an additional burden for them, to keep two more manufacturers' products in their business; this is also an opportunity for them to expand their supply to their consumers, and we hope that they will make use of it, and we also hope that the Economic Competition Authority, which is authorised in this current bill, will discover positive experiences during the inspection. Ladies and gentlemen, So what I can say is that the Fidesz faction is very much in favour of our fellow Member Lajos Kósa's proposal, and I ask you to do the same. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-6	Thank you. I now give the floor of Z. Carpathian to Daniel, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-7	Mr President, Dear House, I try to approach the subject with sufficient restraint, because the introduction was not an actual political tone, and those sitting on the pro-government side, whose cultural or other activities I respect very much, so I say that I am approaching with sufficient restraint; however, I find it difficult for my kind to understand the amazing attraction to various alcoholic products, articles that have recently broken out of several pro-government representatives as chimwords, and as an athlete, I find it difficult to accept that pálinka is a basic food. I respect the fact that there are several people in Hungary who live on a daily basis with similar articles, or even drink a glass of good quality wine after dinner, and I have no problem with that; the decline in proportion is a bit of a distance, as the government testifies this week, as the promotion of different alcoholic products is not mentioned in the third case, however, let us say, the situation of Hungarian athletes or Hungarian trainers, or the situation of Hungarian and now our countrymen who have lost their jobs and income has not been discussed at all. I consider this to be a massive loss of proportion, and I warn the government that this will leave out all social groups. I would add that if this proposal were to be about Lajos Kósa hitting the multinational companies and putting Hungarian companies in the position, I would not support this goal 100%, 100% [[Nacsa Lőrinc's arm spread out: That's what I'm talking about!]] And when my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, spread his hand like this, I know that there is a trick involved, because we can see that when Lajos Kósa justifies his desire to create a competition with administrative means, he is somewhat misguided, he is certain from an economic approach. I am precisely the great critic of the free competition with quotes, because I believe that in a competitive climate called free market, those large multi-enterprises, among you, are simply eating up the small ones from the national economy, which is why I think that you should approach and stimulate this market with very different means. By administrative means it can be 20 percent, I do not say that I reject this from the gut, I say that still small Hungarian companies, which represent 20 percent, will not necessarily be competitive, and their initial competitive disadvantages will essentially remain unchanged. If the aim of Lajos Kósa is to really go up from the current market rate of 3% to, say, 5 or 6, then I will support you in this without any cynicism, but at the same time I see that if we look at what companies are receiving job creation aid these days, what companies are receiving non-refundable subsidies, then, my fellow Member, perhaps you should confirm that it is not the small breweries, not the Hungarian micro-enterprises with five employees that typically benefit from the subsidies, so a completely perverse redistribution is being achieved in Hungary, where large companies are supported by public funds by the Government of Hungary, because I can provide concrete support to support. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Here you go, specifically.]] And I hope there's a productive debate. Audi Hungária Zrt., colleagues [[A statement from the ruling parties: Beer, beer!]] ; a HUF 2 billion grant agreement has been signed with this company, with which I will say once again the loss of the entire quarantine shutdown: they will give it all to this company. Stand up, any of you, and tell me three Hungarian small plants whose losses from the entire quarantine have been compensated by a similar contract! Now you can yell out, insult the opposition representative, or stand up and answer the specific question. The perverse redistribution system that you have implemented is about supporting large companies, replacing their losses, and raking the losses of these large companies together with taxpayers' money. The case of Audi proves this, as well as the case of countless other multinational companies. I'm not necessarily sorry about the Audi a little bit, but not until the last forint, because obviously if they hold a job, it makes sense, but I am very sorry that Hungarian small companies are not supported in a similar way. My fellow Member, Kósa, said that he intended to support small-scale breweries with this proposal. It didn't come up as a debate point for me here, but the specialized press came up with the Pécs Brewery. We are talking about a company that has basically been a small company since 2019, but a company that, after a net turnover of over 2.5 billion dollars, has produced a taxed profit of HUF 50 million, so it seemed that there was not a revenue volume typical of a small company, but the profit that was taxed was still shrinking compared to that. So it should be decided, and we should communicate honestly whether they want to support real small family businesses and factories, because then they will have my support in this, or they have shrinked with various market machinations into a seemingly small company, otherwise companies that could become the exclusive servers of a World Championship, because there was a world event in Hungary where this family plant could not be called an exclusive one, and its own products could be marketed in this way at this event. [[9.00]] I would like to add what my colleague Kósa is talking about, and I repeat that I do not dispute the principle, as I am aware of to the GVH in 2017. So what you're about to re-invent is a almost completed flow diagram in 2017 that says it was already a market firm commitment. I don't want to belittle what's in front of us right now, because if the principle is honest, then I'm gonna support it. What I would like to say is that it is not enough, it is not effective, and in the current emergency situation, this does not get those Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises who are forced to discharge their employees. Prime Minister, you can say here on Mondays, many on Mondays, that you will create as many jobs as you will lose, but we all know that you know that, unfortunately, this is not true. I wish it were true. I wish it could be true. But in my view, there is no European national economy, none that can replace the number of jobs lost in these months, at the moment. You can't either. And the fact is that the commitment already made to the GVH will be presented as a new revolutionary achievement of the revolutionary government, but I do not believe that the Hungarian small companies themselves will still be in a position. And we also see that the leader of the Association of Small Plant Brewery has also been shown on this issue. I don't know, did you negotiate with him? If you sat down with him or sat down with him, you would probably know that they feel that, from a market point of view, it would be a reduction in the VAT content of taped beer to 5 per cent, which would give them some revenue in this market, an opportunity not to fire an employee, but, where appropriate, to cover their wages. I am not saying that I am here to support the reduction in the VAT of any alcohol product from this situation, and I would just like to say to you that the president of the Association of Small Plant Brewery considers this to be a normal market solution, but this is not in your proposal. Once again, I am not asking you to do this, but the proposal of one of the leading representatives of the relevant market sector, which either did not reach the government's table or was simply not negotiated with it. The second is the scarier scenario, since they typically submit bill proposals here by claiming that they have negotiated with the parties involved, and then they say that this has not happened. Which is why I'm saying that if you want to help these companies, then what should be done? In the first place, we shouldn't have been running around all year with a system of compensation for lost wages. In spring Jobbik put down the concept of the Hungarian employment protection fund after three days, which would make up 80 percent of all lost wages, including those who have already lost their jobs. And we see that for about a month and a half, the government dwarfed on what concept to put on the table and put down one that replaced 15-20 percent of the wages that were lost instead of 80 percent. It's autumn now, fellow Members. I see that horrific energies are being mobilized in the development of laws on mining, putting your real estate investor friends in the position of Budapest-Belgrád investment, at the moment in the position of the brewery called small-scale. I'm not saying I'm debating all the proposals, not at all, I'm just saying that with the same amount of money, I think they should find time to make up for the losses. For these small-scale breweries, it would help a lot more if the Government of Hungary were to replace 80% of the wage lost for all employees, and I am not saying that the Hungarian taxpayers, but those who would have to pay for this in the form of a fair epidemiological register and hat. I see that you are laughing at my fellow pro-government Members, but I hope you will not when you explain to me why you are being paid to one of the Hungarians and not to the other. What we see is that the parties and local authorities are taking on the burdens they have to bear at this time, but the banking sector is not dared by this government to pay into the epidemiological defense fund on the basis of public burdens. They get a $55 billion special tax on paper, and then they can write it off for the next four or five years without any problems. What I am saying is that this fund should be recharged properly, with 80% of the wages lost, because it would really help the workers in the sector concerned and discussed. And if you really want to put small companies in the position, I beg you to sit down with the leaders of these small companies' advocacy organisations, because they might paint a picture of a completely different Hungary than you imagine from here. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-20-8	Thank you. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-9	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. President. My fellow rapporteur. I was waiting for Congressman Arató to yell at Dániel Z. Kárpát when he started talking about cars, because L. Simon shouted to László to speak not about wine, but about beer, but about the Audi, but he did not have a problem with my fellow Member. I think my colleague here compares apples and pears. The comparison of small breweries to Audi factories is false and, on the other hand, obviously takes the focus of the debate away. Mr. Congressman said that he basically agreed with the direction, then said for nine and a half minutes how bad we were, how terrible everything is here, and, by the way, this proposal, but he said that he agreed with the direction. If you look at what you should check, what the left has to do with the constant accusations: reconciliation, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's We could conclude that this should then be supported by you on the basis of your speeches so far, because there has been consultation, the goal is good, the instrument is good. After all, I would like to start by saying that when I see a trade law amendment or anything that might in some way interfere with free competition, I believe in decent work and free competition, first I get a little scared, and I have to read it thoroughly, because I don't like it when free competition is really hit by the regulator, or something happens that could put free competition in jeopardy. At the same time, if we read this bill and know exactly the history of the spring bill, then we see that this bill basically promotes competition. It allows parties to compete at least in a visual range at the start line, if not next to each other, but in a visual range, and not on another track in another city, to compete with small breweries. I did not speak to my colleague L. Simon, but I also wanted to start my speech from the fact that there were monastic breweries, and what a tradition, the cultural significance of the fact that, for example, Pannonhalmán was already the XI. beer was also brewed in the century, and how culturally important it is that beer is brewed with 600-800-year-old recipes in many places, equipped with that knowledge. I think that this is also of cultural importance and additional importance. It's not that it's the primary task of a monk's order, it's not that they did it. It was also an educational, educational, cultural and, of course, financial part of supporting the activities of primary educators, educators, charities, social and religious life in complementing the activities of the monastic orders. That's why I'm happy for you. The Communists took all this away, because almost all dioceses and monks before communism had some kind of cellar, vineyard, brewery, and activities related to gastronomy that the Communists then took away from them. Thirty years after the change of regime, it seems to be in a few places. My fellow Member gave examples of this: Bakonybél, Zirc, Pannonhalma, but we could talk about several places if we talk about wine. I think this competition puts the little ones in a position of some sort or gives them the chance to compete in this race. The small ones are supported by this proposal. This is not alien to the international environment, for example, the European Union has a directive and rules that allow national governments to provide tax incentives, for example, for small-scale breweries or small-scale wine production plants. So I think that this is no stranger to the international environment, it is not a unique example, but it is a good tool to help small-scale breweries. I am pleased with what my fellow Member, Mr Simon, said because years ago we saw that many at the small breweries called it handicraft beers; I do not like that term so much as it became a subculture, but it became a tiny subculture. There was a layer who was interested in this, who had tasted it, who had access to it, who knew these opportunities, and who sometimes encountered the consumption and tasting of these small-scale beers. But I think that it is time to open this up to a wider audience, and it is important that small-scale brewery products appear on the shelves of shops, and thus a much wider palette for customers. [[9.10]] My fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, also spoke about alcohol consumption. I think the most important principle here is that I would like to list these three with responsibility, measure and quality, so basically we need to examine whether such proposals, which are pushing the issue of alcohol consumption, are pointing in this direction. I think that this triple filter can be met here too, but it is very important that we, too, if we are in a situation like that, then by our example, by our words, by our actions, we should certainly set an example in the fact that it is only with responsibility and only with measure that alcohol should be consumed. It is very important that there is no debate between us. I also wanted to mention that, in recent years, many support opportunities have been opened to small breweries, whether with EU or domestic programmes. A lot of people have been able to use the amount that they have been able to obtain from EU proposals or from domestic sources for asset acquisition, development and quality growth, so thanks to the support policy of the last ten years, this market or this segment has been able to grow and produce a quality that is ripe for us to negotiate such proposals and move in this direction. What I would like to say is that I agree with the aim, I agree with the instrument, the negotiation has been carried out, and I think the direction is right if we want to give the little ones a chance in some way. I would not say putting them in a position here, because I think it is very important that Congressman Kósa has formulated this bill and the spring in such a way that we do not put small breweries in a position, but that we give them the opportunity to start at all in this competition, and it takes a lot of work, a lot of effort, time and energy to show them in the Hungarian beer market that they can compete with their quality. And, of course, there is, of course, a bit patriotic aspect of this bill, because we know precisely that the large brewers in Hungary are also owned abroad, and the small breweries are almost exclusively or to a very large extent owned by Hungary. As a believer in patriot economic policy, I believe that that is why this bill is important, because it gives the opportunity not only to the small ones, but also to the Hungarians, and I always think it is important to give domestic businesses, domestic producers and domestic producers the opportunity to do so as opposed to large multinationals abroad. Overall, I think, on the basis of what my fellow Members have said, and on the basis of the rapporteur's proposal, that the KDNP fraction can support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-20-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to start with a statistical record. Today, there are at least 400 thousand children in Hungary where at least one parent is an alcoholic. That's the least of the data. And let me also say that it is very bizarre to start the parliamentary session with beer, wine and brandy on Friday morning. [[Lőrinc Nacsa keeps interrupting.]] It is also very bizarre that in the middle of the pandemic and epidemic, this is our most important law when hotels do not work, there are no festivals in Hungary, and restaurants are closed. You may also say, Mr President, that we are preparing with laws that, when the situation improves and there is no epidemic, these laws should be ready to help businesses. But we also know that you can bring laws before this House in a day or two, and it doesn't take a week to vote very quickly. And the opposition representative and the population would rightly expect us to negotiate laws during an epidemic that, let's say, actually help small businesses or Hungarian families. We could say when the government will introduce 100 percent of the sick money that we ask for during an epidemic or when laws will be introduced that we, Members, personally, have initiated on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, so that let's say that the mothers who are pregnant can receive a 100 percent absence fee; that if they decide to fear for their own lives and the lives of their fetus, then let them go and not have to work, but not for sick pay, but for a 100 percent absence fee. We socialist Members cannot argue with how to support small-scale breweries and small-scale businesses, only by listening to you can even say that this amendment can be supported, but you know, we have seen something quite different in the last ten years. In its introduction, Lajos Kósa did not mention that, say, in 2017, the Pécs Brewery had already lost money, and how György Matolcsy's cousin Zoltán Szemerey got it, and as soon as he got it, they produced 1,08 million hectolitres of hops, which in 2017 resulted in 442.4 thousand litres of production, and after getting it, György Matolcsy's cousin quickly brought it down to below 200,000, for they immediately submitted a law, which was to raise the annual hep ceiling from 8 thousand to 200,000, which meant that it was not necessary to pay 100 per cent tax on beer production, but half of it, 810 forints. You know, these laws are the ones you have to tell the opposition that we don't believe you anymore, because you're basically always setting foot in an economic sector, and once you've set foot there, you can make laws that are favourable to these economic sectors. And that's not a coincidence. It is no accident, let us say, that opposition representatives, how these legislative amendments took place, and Congressman Lajos Kósa forgot to say so. Dániel Z. Kárpát, who spoke before me, also said that the market share of small craftsmen in Hungary is now about 3 percent, but if they had agreed with the profession, as you have led to this, they would also know that this market share, if they took full advantage of their capacity, could not have gone beyond 6 percent. Small breweries can't get 20 percent of the current market, so even though they say they can provide 20 percent to these operators, their current capacity needs can't meet this. And then we have to talk about the fact that this is not just about the brewery in Pécs, but also about the Ciuc Beer, and you are essentially trying to put these two sectors in a position that you are trying to guarantee by law. I think I know that you don't like it when you talk about it, but when you look at the years and the practice of the past years, I'm just saying that I can repeat myself that if you get into an economic sector or rule over that economic sector, you can then directly pass laws to put these businesses in a better position. I stress that we are also trying to support small businesses as much as possible in Hungary, but this method is completely rejected and we cannot support it. In this way, we must also say that this amendment is not acceptable in this way, in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-13	Dear House, Dear colleague Lajos Kósa, The only reason I'm not asking you is because I know you're not. There's a reason for that. This morning, as we have seen, you attended the meeting of the operational tribe; you will do so on other days. How much has it been said there that the support of the Matolcsy family or the Ciuc Beer helps to combat the epidemic? In a situation where 600 people are now on a ventilator, when unfortunately there are still very high numbers of new infected and deceased people every day, is that your biggest problem? Is this their biggest problem, that two breweries, which are not actually handy breweries, but factory breweries, have only cleverly modified the rules in order to fit into the small-scale category, provide additional market benefits? ! [[9.20]] I understand that, of course, you could have written in the Fundamental Law that you can only buy beer from them, just like you did with your earlier high-profile position on the colour change of public funds. But is that the most important problem today? This is what is to be dealt with in Parliament today, in this country at all, who will be given trade benefits through various legislative amendments? I must say, Congressman, that we have a job to do, that you have a job to do, that you have health, that you have an emergency service, that you have business with small businesses that have lost their livelihood, that you have lost your income. And this is by far not the very narrow circle you're providing some kind of help with, of course, the buddy circle among hotels and, on the other hand, a pretty narrow circle in hospitality; a lot of everyone else is covered by the fact that they don't have any income. So, you can deal with small businesses' subsidies, you can deal with how many people have lost their livelihoods, because not only did they not get a job after three months, as you said, but not even after six months, and they're out of the whole unemployment system. They could be concerned about what happens to those who have to stay at home because they're being quarantined, or because, for example, their children are being quarantined, or they're simply sick, and based on otherwise legitimate recommendations, they can't take their children to school. Instead, we're talking about making it better for the Matolcsy family and the Ciuc Beer. I have to say, it's a shame. It's a shame. It would make sense, by the way, to talk at some point, in calmer, more peaceful times about how to regulate the beer market. In the summer we talked about it here in Parliament, we didn't get a full agreement, but there was a lot of things that we had in common. But today, to deal with this is to let people down. We should be dealing with health, the epidemic, the threatening economic crisis, the social crisis that will destroy hundreds of thousands of people. This should be addressed here in Parliament and also in the government and in Fidesz. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I could start by saying that there is a very sympathetic initiative ahead of us, as it aims to put small businesses in position against large companies in dominant and typically monopoly or oligopolistic situations. And yet the first question I have to ask you, especially with regard to Prime Minister's recent statements, is that beer is also a basic food? I'm telling you, I'm asking because there really isn't exactly a common voter who understands why this question is here before us today, and I understand, I understand, that the Parliament is working and making decisions, but I still think that this is an actuality, let's say, that it is not. I go further: and as much as I like this proposal, as much as I like it, that small breweries and small plants are helped by the government, and I cannot go along with what is going on with the other small and medium-sized enterprises. What about the voters, the consumer, who has had a problem with living for months and months? Once again, I see that a bill has been put here, with a good chance as a result of lobbying by some lobbyists, and this law will actually be very good, because it will be possible to point back to the fact that, well, honourable opposition representatives, we also protected the small breweries! The fact is, my fellow Members, that it is beautiful, but few, very, very few, because, in addition, small and medium-sized enterprises have received minimum support and assistance, they are all in a very, very difficult situation. I would like to make an offer to Congressman Kósa: if he is able to leave Parliament, I would like to invite him very much to come to the Vámház körút kiárcsarnok and take a ride. A large part of the retailers are struggling to survive so that they can support their family, and let us be honest: it is very nice that you protect the small breweries, but we know exactly that ten years, ten years of government are behind you, that neither in trade nor in any other economic sector have your tiny players protected the economy. They didn't protect these tiny but developing economic groups anywhere. And to give you just one example: this week, the government decided that the economic security fund, through a reorganization, would provide additional support to the economy. It's a 300 billion-dollar remodel I'm talking about, and it's worth looking at the proportions. Of which 80 billion are specifically corporate support through the Ministry of Finance, then 70 billion, and we are already over half the amount distributed, medium-sized and large-scale support through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, rightly pointed out how Audi Hungária was pulled out of trouble. Do you know, my fellow Member, who are not among the supported? Small, micro, family businesses. And who else isn't on the support team? Employees who work sweaty work from morning to late at night to support their families. Families who, if they didn't lose their jobs, tend to lose their incomes, lower their salaries, but I can see now that you're gonna beat their breasts, because we've protected the little breweries! Dear fellow Member, The thing is, don't listen to lobbying. Come out on the street, and I'm sure my fellow Member Kósa will meet the cashier in the shop, the loader, and I'm sure he'll fill up and meet the gas station attendant, and I'll tell you a long list. Talk to them, my fellow Member, and you will find that the right order would be to help people, the working people, first. This is the basis of the economy, the engine of the economy, not the Audi Hungária, but the worker who goes into Audi Hungária and does the work, and they would need very much help! I get it. It's a very nice thing to protect the little breweries. By the way, the May Other with Politics policy is in perfect harmony with this [[L. Simon László: Then what?]] With the exception, my fellow Member, that the proper order must be followed. First, in the crisis currently caused by the epidemic, the protection of the economy must be achieved, not just by friends, not just by sectors close to us, but by working people, but also by small and micro-enterprises! Small businesses, family businesses that today carry 70 percent of employment on their backs, must be protected. Ladies and gentlemen, If this proposal had come in peacetime, if this proposal had come in when it was supposed to be here, I would have been able to support it with a very big voice, as well as my political community. Thus, in this situation, I think it must be said that you are once again trying to place the alcohol manufacturing industry or the alcohol manufacturing segment and, for example, basic food. [[9.30]] Why is this more important to you? Somebody explain that to me. Mr Kósa, I think you will be involved in the debate. Explain to me why small breweries are more important than those who consume basic food. Why is cheap brandy more important than available basic food? Explain it to me. I really do not see any understandable reason why the alcohol market is in such a prominent role for you, and I cannot understand why, when we are talking about economic protection, you are trying to help sectors close to you. I understand my fellow Member, Mr Simon, because he is close to the winery, the sector itself is close to him, but I think that bringing this into the Parliament on such a direct basis, let us say, is not elegant. It is not elegant, because I think you should too, and it is even necessary to see that today Hungarian society needs a lot of things, but it is not certain that among these, let's say, the top five includes high-quality beer or exempt brandy. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Basic food!]] I understand that you consider these as basic foods, but believe me, a 12-year-old child is saying this because my daughter's 12-year-old breakfast table cannot have small-scale beer or high-quality plum brandy, but it would be very important for everyone to have access to all the basic foods that are today taxed in an unprecedented manner in this country compared to Europe. And I also understand that we have a budget, and it sets a framework for every decision, and it is clear that these frameworks are distributed to large companies, see Audi, and to large companies in other sectors, see the around 150 billion forints spent this week, and you do not need to have your worldview, based on your economic policy, for micro-enterprises, for small businesses. For you, the alcohol industry is more important than the trade in basic foods or the manufacturing industry from basic foods, because at the moment you are promoting the production of alcohol, you are trying to put the sector in the position instead of supporting the retail trade and micro-enterprises that really need help. That's the problem with this whole bill because I think they've lost proportion and direction at the same time, and it's very difficult to stay below a certain level of uproar when your economic policy, your worldview, is so severely opposed to the interests of our fellow countrymen here. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-20-16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to L. Simon László for a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'll give the floor to the author first. Here you go, Congressman Kósa. [[L. Simon László: I asked for a proper one!]]
u2020-11-20-17	Mr. President. Dear House, I'm extremely sad, I've heard so much deafness and vegetables in Parliament in a long time that you've brought together quite a small number of people. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Back off when it comes to the death of people! Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] First of all, dear Congressman Csárdi, I see that after the first word you stopped reading. The subject of the law next to beer: soft drink, fruit juice, fruit nectar, mineral water, water, soda water. Is that clear? These aren't alcoholic drinks, and I'm gonna risk putting down a local fruit juice on your little girl's desk in the morning instead of dropping off the big multi stuff she's imported from Brazil because there's nothing else she can do. I'm right in the middle of small manufacturers... And no, it's not about alcohol. I don't know what your basic food is, but I think it's the soda, the juice, the juice, the fruit nectar, the mineral water, the water, the soda water. That's what they drink, isn't it? There's no alcohol in these, or you may have it, but we don't have it, we drink it. [[Defiance.]] By the way, for the record, the consumption of these beverages is much higher than that of beer. I don't know why they got stuck at the beer. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But only on the basis of the facts, my fellow Members: the law helps the market access of essential foods, not support, help! in the case of small local manufacturers, this is the subject matter. Two, of course we know that there is an epidemic, and of course we know that there are more important laws. Don't tell me that a law that you consider most important would be negotiated Friday morning is a complete mistake. But because there is, by the way, an epidemic and we are fighting it, it does not mean that Parliament has finished its work, but that we are going on, and we are discussing a lot of proposals, including this. Well, at this point in time, we couldn't discuss it unless we suggested a late night. Early in the morning and late in the night are the most worthless times in Parliament, so whoever found out that this is the most important thing not to do. Dear Mr. Csárdi. I assume if you're very seriously ill, you're at home, but you're still cutting your nails, aren't you? That's health, that's health, but life doesn't stop. Because there is an epidemic, there are still a lot of important issues that Parliament is discussing, very important questions and less important questions. I do not vindicate that this is the most important issue that we are discussing, but it is without doubt that, contrary to your position, this is happening at a time when the Horeca sector is, by the way, the best of the oddest ways of timing, it was not intentional, of course, but that is the only way it came out, because the current adaptation is at a time when it is easier to adapt, because the market is standing. It is not that everyone has concluded exclusive contracts, and they should be terminated, or, let's say, in the case of festivals, there are preparatory steps that would be affected by the withdrawal of funding, let's say, the programme, so this is not a bad time at all from this point of view. Of course, I have listened to Mr Z. Kárpa's comment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Bring him up!]] interestingly, he came to the question of whether we had discussed with the leader of the small brewery association, and then recorded that we had not, although if we had discussed... I just said it in my speech, but I would like to confirm that we have negotiated with him. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: Then why didn't you...]] We've been negotiating, we haven't accepted all your proposals. The negotiation does not mean, Mr Kárpát, that we accept all the suggestions made by the negotiator, but that we are discussing the issues. They also told us about the VAT reduction to 5%. First of all, it should not be discussed in this law, because this is the Trade Act, and on the other hand, under current market conditions, since the VAT regulation of the European Union would rule out differences in VAT according to manufacturers, the real support for a possible VAT reduction would be the three large ones, because they marketed 160 billion forints last year, and all others only 6 billion forints. So it is easy to calculate that a general reduction of 5 per cent actually supports the three large in volume, while for the little ones it essentially means little. It's simple mathematics. You can do it. So 160 billion is the largest of three [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Borsodi, Dreher, Heineken. If we reduce the VAT to 5 percent, then look at how much they have left, as opposed to the 6 billion market share of everyone else, among whom they are quite small, the top is the 200,000 border. That wouldn't mean anything to them, because they have so little market share. [[9.40]] Beyond that, of course, I'll say it again, that would be a debate on the VAT law, and this is not. That's a suggestion. I told the president of the association of small manufacturers that I didn't want to deal with VAT. This proposal helps that small manufacturers, once again, in water, mineral water, soda water, fruit juice, fruit nectar, soft drink and beer, by the way, but again, we drink a lot more of these than beer. This is natural, by the way, because we usually drink a lot more than beer, but my fellow Member Csárdi did not notice this. Therefore, the access of these producers to the market cannot be excluded by the large ones by means of contracts. So there is a huge difference between supporting someone or simply preventing them from being forced out of the market with contracts, because in Hungary, the practice of yes, I deliver, I am multi, and then I agree with the Horeca sector or distributors, and I say that you can only put out mine, and not the little ones, if you have to, if you don't. No wonder the stakes are small. I have no idea that small-scale breweries, or, let's say, small soft drinks manufacturers or small mineral water manufacturers, can go over 20 percent. No. Just let them get to the market. I was shocked when I went to Siksor, and there was no Borsodi water, even though one of my favorite, absolutely small mineral waters was just not possible because it was excluded. I asked the restaurant guy why he didn't, he said they had Naturaqua. This contract, it can't put anyone else out. I think you should not help this, of course, because you have always said how good it is in substance, but otherwise in this way and in that way, you will not support it. I didn't expect the opposition to support anything, by the way. Admittedly, for the little ones, it is important to forbid them from being excluded from the market, that is for sure. And, of course, there are many other issues to discuss in the context of this proposal the support of Audi. It is a pity that my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, did not mention the thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who also received hundreds of billions of dollars through various support schemes, such as the Audi to deal with this crisis, support and development, and the many, many subsidies from the credit moratorium to the family support system to keep jobs, which the government otherwise supported. I don't want to bring this here. And let me tell you something else, fellow Members. You can judge the government, that's what you do. One thing is certain: this is not the government's proposal. The government supports it, but it has nothing to do with it; it is my proposal, and also the proposal from my fellow Member Simon, and also the proposal from my fellow Member Nacsa, whom I have asked to assist in the work of the Commission, to express their opinions and to defend the proposal. I think we didn't change the world, we didn't fight the Covid epidemic, we didn't help the course of world peace, we didn't do a lot of things. This is important for manufacturers, of course, but it does not replace the world, the fact that the greats, out of dominant position, abuse their positions, cannot prevent them from entering into exclusive contracts to access the little bit at all to the market. That's all we did. And if it's the Fotian beer, the abbey beers, or even different products from the Dawn Brewery, then that's it. If this is the Borsodi mineral water, if this is the Pavai Vajna, if this is the Csokonai water, then this is it. If this is the DÉR, the apple juice of the deer's dough, then this is it. If this, by the way, facilitates market access for very small forest fruit producers in Zemplén, then this is it. That's it. You're gonna do this, you know that. I'm sorry they don't support you. We hope that Parliament will support it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to L. Simon László, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-19	I would like a proper speech, Mr President. Something's not...
u2020-11-20-20	But it was a two-minute signal.
u2020-11-20-21	That was an accident, I'm sorry.
u2020-11-20-22	Then, of the two-minute speakers, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, This week, we need to clear it about twenty-seven times, because left-wing Members still do not understand it. Last week, we made a decision together, you and we both did. The whole point of the decision was to hand over the decisions and powers of the CDC to the government together. [[Pointing to the opposition:]] You voted the same way, you voted the same way, you voted the same way, I voted the same way. We all voted that way to give it to you. So the most important decisions, the most effective, quickest and determined decisions, are now the responsibility of the government, because we have entrusted this responsibility to the government, this mandate, together with Dániel Z. Karpát, Antal Csárdi and Gergely Arató, to the government. All you talk about this week is every bill, while you've decided to do the same. Disease control is everyone's most important task right now. However, as the country works, so does the Parliament, which normally negotiates laws, and if you would like to help protect against the epidemic, then, for example, Congressman Csárdi will not hold a press conference in an hour to cancel the free parking, which 61 percent of the people have supported according to the national consultation, and he wants to bring people back to crowded public transport. He's gonna hold a press conference about this. Well, don't hold it if you want to help protect yourself from the epidemic. This is how the Democratic Coalition managed to kick Sándor Petőfi, the national memorial sites this week, when all he could do was abuse the government and, moreover, the referrals. If I really want to help protect against the epidemic, then perhaps you should call Lajos Korózs back from the head of the People's Welfare Committee and not share fake statistics and fake news in sync. They always forget that the VAT on milk, eggs, fish, meat is 5 percent, by the way, this somehow always falls behind from your speeches, always misses and misses how many and how many thousands of applications we have supported small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
u2020-11-20-24	Thank you. I give the floor to Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Congressman Kósa. The fact is, I do not think that there is currently in our basic food VAT reduction proposal the water, the mineral water, but I do have a suggestion: let us jointly submit our proposal to reduce the totality of basic foods to 5%, and then add to the basic foods the sparkling water, mineral water or other soft drinks you have missed, I leave this entirely to you, what you want, really, what you want. On the other hand, let's stop for a moment. It's very nice that you're using this law to protect the tiny breweries, because multinational companies are pushing them out of the market. By the way, this is true and an important objective, but I would like to ask with due respect, in particular, the representatives of the government, where the Hungarian Competition Authority has been in the cottage for the last ten years. Your hand-operated GVH has been able to stand for your interests, for example, during the time of the merger of press products, but where is the GVH, when they really need them, and when they really should do the task that my poor fellow Member Kósa is forced to do here in the early hours of the morning? I think it's a valid question. By the way, speaking of the Trade Act, when and what proposal does my fellow Member Kósa intend to make in order to ensure that small family and micro-commercial companies who are always undeservedly forgotten by Parliament receive support for their competitive disadvantage? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-26	Thank you. I give the floor to Róbert Honky, representative of Jobbik. Here you go. [[9.50]]
u2020-11-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, To tell you the truth, I didn't think that Friday morning in Parliament would be about 500 times, but the word beer might be spoken a thousand times, but I could say the spark. I'd like to tell you that we're in a pandemic period. We're sitting here... [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] Yes, I am telling you, my fellow Member, L. Simon, to you too, Mr Secretary of State, that we are talking about beer here in a pandemic period. By the way, what's even worse and even more outrageous is that they're performing this as a triumph. It is performed as a triumphal procession: they have consulted professional organisations. And when did you consult with the medical professional organisations and social professional organisations? Yeah, well, the lies are going, but then it turns out that they're all lies that are being said here because they're not going to contact the Medical Chamber in order to make the right decisions. That's the problem. By the way, I would like to say to you that, as it stands, we are not experiencing a water and not a beer and not a soft drink crisis, but a health and economic crisis. That's what we should be dealing with.
u2020-11-20-28	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I've been there.]] Excuse me, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, the representative of DK. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Smart give in.]]
u2020-11-20-29	Thank you very much, yes, we have two minutes left. Dear House, Dear Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, You're in a fundamental misunderstanding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Not in one!]] You don't seem to have read the entire text of the latest version of the Powers Act. Was there another part of that you know? which was about the government reporting to Parliament on disease control measures. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Counted in.]] Please tell me when the government has reported what it plans to do in the economy, how it helps businesses, how it supports those who have lost their jobs, those who are now out of employment, and so on. Honourable Congressman, How can I put this very gently, without any hurtful intentions? [[Lajos Kósa: Oh!]] You've been authorized to handle the plague. Now they can do that! I think we should get started on that one. By the way, what we object to here is that, while not giving the Parliament any substantive information on a series of issues, I believe that Congressman Szatmáry may or may not be wrong, on ATV, he tells us that the government's great economic plans are being made, but at the same time this afternoon, when asked here in Parliament, there were no direct answers to direct questions, not even the Fidesz Members of the Government, nor the Prime Minister's response to what is going to happen. So what I have to say to you is that you do not think that because we are more important to the Hungarian people's lives than what we think of you, we are also stupid, and we believe that you are using this mandate for good, and we will quietly say that, uh, well, the government is handling the epidemic. You guys are treating this disease very badly. They've finally been given the opportunity, legally given the opportunity to do what should be done. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Do something about it, and don't do anything about it. [[The president's ringing again.]] I want you to think about how you can put money in your buddies' pockets. That's all we're asking here in Parliament all the time.
u2020-11-20-30	Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to further contributions from its representatives, I would like to draw your attention to the title of the bill before us. I give the floor to L. Simon Laszlo, representative of Fidesz.
u2020-11-20-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Indeed, many things were said in the main speaker's round and in the next two minutes, and since I was the lead speaker for Fidesz, I would like to respond to a few things here for one last speech. I am pleased that my fellow Member Kósa has drawn attention to the fact that this situation should not be abused, my opposition fellow Members, that, on the one hand, the international press is being led to believe that this was what they were trying to say in Hungary, in spring, that Parliament's mandate to act is a temporary break in parliamentarianism and that Parliament is not working in Hungary. In fact, the Parliament works. You can't do two things at once. If we want the Parliament to work on the regular agenda, to do its work and to discuss the laws that come before it, regardless of which weight it is, then I ask you to accept this and do your work with honor, and not to do what you do when you speak up in Parliament, because otherwise we do nothing but do our job in a normal way. In addition, under the authority of the Parliament, the government is doing its job. And I must strongly reject my fellow Member Arato's outbursts, and the Hungarian Government is treating the current crisis as an example in a European comparison as well. We can't justify this better than the manageable rate of deaths on the one hand. Losing every single human life is a huge loss, but at the same time we must say that, compared with Italy, compared with Western European countries, we are still doing well in Hungarian numbers and statistics. This commends the work of the Government of Hungary and the work of Hungarian health workers, doctors and nurses. The other thing that confirms the efficiency of the government's operation is that it has taken action in a timely and appropriate way to save the economy. Saying things like what my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said here, that nobody listens to small and medium-sized enterprises, it's a complete nonsense! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We need to look at the concrete measures, starting from the reduction of contributions in the present Etap, until some of the payments are taken over, we can give a number of examples that the government is acting effectively and decisively. I am pleased that my fellow Member Nacsa has also referred back to the Petőfi annual debate three days ago, because that is exactly what we have witnessed, that DK's representative stands up and that it is bad for us why we deal with Sándor Petőfi during a pandemic period. Nonsense! Total nonsense! In preparation for the birth anniversary of one of the nation's greatest poets, why not take care of Sándor Petőfi for the 200-year anniversary? ! As my fellow Member Csárdi put it, this can be dealt with in peacetime. No, please, at a time of war, when there is a real war, we still have to deal with our culture, our identity, the food industry, education, everything that belongs to life. Because otherwise, we do not give up our right to a normal life, and we do not give up on the fact that once this crisis is over, life can move on in a normal way. By the way, I would like to say to my fellow Members, because you seem to like the answer by the Prime Minister to what he said here on the immediate questions, when someone said, perhaps just my fellow Member Csárdi, that brandy is not a basic food, and the Prime Minister replied that it is a basic food, to the knowledge of the brandy. Speaking of Petőfi, I must, my fellow Members, especially my fellow Member Csárdi, read Sándor Petőfi as a child and as an adult, and not only Sándor Petőfi, but also several great Hungarian writers, so that we can distinguish irony from serious things. The Prime Minister ironically said that brandy is a basic food, that is what I can say to my better fellow Members. He didn't mean that it was actually something related to everyday nutrition, but ironically, funnyly he said, referring to Hungarian culture, Hungarian traditions, that pálinka for Hungarian people is something like, say, whiskey for Scottish people, vodka for Russians, and we could list it further. Of course it was irony. So I suggest to my fellow Members that if they have not mastered the literary concept of irony in primary school, and therefore cannot distinguish serious speech from humor, irony, self-irony, at least now start reading beautiful literature. With regard to VAT on basic foods, I think my fellow Member Nacsa has said what needs to be known. I also do not understand why this is always brought up when you know precisely that every year the government or parliament has reduced their VAT on one of the foods, something that is one, something that is done at a number of paces, fellow Members. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] It should also be noted that the point of our tax policy is to keep turnover taxes at a higher level, but to keep income tax at a lower level. The only person who doesn't understand this is someone who doesn't want to just face the facts. It is possible that the Prime Minister has also said in Parliament a hundred times and Minister Varga that there is a possibility of a different kind of tax policy, a legitimate tax policy. It is possible to have a tax policy that says that we keep income taxes high, which is what the Socialists did, and they remember that they had 44.5 percent of their daughters, but they never kept the VAT low, so let's add. But it is possible to have a legitimate tax policy where income taxes are kept high, turnover taxes are low. Our government says it's not the right direction, we're doing it the other way around, and I totally agree with that. [[10.00]] I would like to say to my fellow Member, Harvester, that I am very sad that you, my fellow Member, do not know what to do with the concept of national protectionism; you do not know what to do with the concept of local patriotism; you do not understand the importance of localities in an economic sense. Dear fellow Member, When I took my kids to Görz, if I remember correctly, you're a history teacher, does that word mean anything to you to Görz? [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes.]] Today, it's called Gorizia, to watch the World War I Exhibition, when I sat down at the café, I drank gorizian caffè, so the local coffee. When I went to Trieste with my children to show them a beautiful city built during the Monarchy, which had serious Hungarian cultural aspects, we went to see the exhibition of the local coffee, the Illy caffè, and, of course, we did not drink Brazilian coffee in the cafe, but we drank Illy coffee. Not only did I mention that I had a double pleasure drinking this coffee, because I had not only the local coffee in Trieste, but also a coffee with Hungarian implications, since it was Ferenc Illy who founded that plant. So it was possible to taste the only Hungarian-related coffee brand, coffee brand; it is perfectly natural to have the same expectations. That is why I said that my fellow Member Kósa's proposal has a distinct cultural dimension, features of identity, parts of our identity, and that we should drink local wine locally and eat local products. And it is important to pay attention to the ways in which localities and related cultural and gastronomic values can be appreciated in globalism, but I do see that neither patriotism nor local patriotism and, in particular, national protectionism are saying anything to my fellow Member Arató, or at least unfortunately to him, and this has not been proven to be of value for the first time. That is basically the difference between you and us, honourable Members. I would also like to draw your attention to my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi. Let's take a look at how to say the Mohai Agnes mineral water because I always want to talk about the values of our own county, the Mohai Agnes mineral water, which was the Calvary of the brand known in socialism! If there had been market regulations such as those initiated here by my fellow Member Kósa, then these local value plants would certainly have been easier to survive the difficult economic periods, honourable Members. And the Mohai Agnes was also a well-known mineral water brand before World War II. These mineral waters are squeezed out by multinational drink manufacturers who, by the way, do not market mineral water in one case, but only carbonic water with relatively low mineral content. I don't want to say brands right now. I would say to my fellow Member, Csárdi, if he were here because he asked the GVH. You must understand that, obviously, this should be somewhat at home in the area, that the Economic Competition Authority is acting on matters in which it has competence. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] We're about to authorize it. Why does the Hungarian Competition Authority take account of the fact that it has not acted in this case when there was no legal requirement under which it would have acted? There was nothing to account for on distributors, traders and manufacturers. Now you'll have something to look at and take account of. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] In addition, I would ask my fellow Member, Csárdi, how many times in recent years he has turned to the Hungarian Competition Authority with an application where he would have drawn attention to, say, trade anomalies and pointed out how multinational companies are putting Hungarian producers and producers in an awkward or difficult situation, my honourable fellow Member. In addition to telling me here that it's not elegant to bring things into Parliament that we deal with personally, it's nonsense! Ladies and gentlemen, After all, one integrates one's own experience into his work. You can really talk truthfully about what you have your own experience of, where you've been through periods of failure, pitfalls, losses, and a career. The reason why I am able to speak authentically here is because I have been dealing with a number of aspects of the issue for three decades, and I can clearly find the parallels between the positive trends in the wine market and the opportunities that arise from the excellent proposal of my fellow Member, Mr Kósa. Moreover, let us really avoid the hypocrisy of pretending that we are not, by the way, interests that we have as a private person, but that it is always important that private interests and public interests do not conflict. When private interests and public interests come together, it is the luckiest situation when one can learn from the experience of one's own life what should be transposed into the legislation, not only for him, but also for those in a similar situation, to have a positive benefit. From this point of view, honourable Members, we represent Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and not, by the way, foreign multinational companies. Obviously, in your ranks, it looks like they're sitting down with people who want to help them. Finally, one more thing for my fellow Member, Mr Kárpat, and also for my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, because they keep coming with the Audi and why we support the factories and not the workers. I cannot believe that it is still impossible to understand the policy that we need jobs to be preserved. When we support the Audi, we actually support the Audi so that the people who worked there don't lose their jobs. Then they'll get paid. Those people will have self - respect, not aid, not charity, not some kind of support to make a living without work, but a decent salary. They go to work at their workplace, create value, create value for the national economy, help their companies to pay taxes to the Hungarian budget, and this obviously affects their souls. So, proudly, they go home knowing that they've earned their money, by the way. We all like to go home with this knowledge that we have worked for what we have received as income. We therefore support employers, and therefore it is very important that the operation of the economy is not more threatened by the epidemic than is currently the case, and that is exactly what the government's support policy is doing. I can't believe that the Jobbik representatives, who haven't long since assumed themselves as a kind of national protectionist, moderate conservative party, just don't get it. I understand that since you and Ferenc Gyurcsány have been refurbished, there has been a different direction in economic policy, but I would ask my fellow Members to accept our points of view as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-33	Mr President, Dear House, With sufficient restraint, my fellow Member, L. Simon, style is man. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right.]] I began my first speech by showing which parts of your professional work I respect and seeking common points, including, where appropriate, at parliamentary level, on a five-party level. Compared to this, you call what I've highlighted from the profession to the level of numbers. Please, if you consider this to be incoherent, try to disprove it at the level of numbers; I will give you specific numbers, even if you pretend not to listen. With regard to the replacement of wages, all the moderate market companies, which deal with estimates, concluded that in the spring period, after closing, you were able to make up for 15-20 percent of the lost wages in Hungary. On the other hand, it is my concept, which would have replaced 80 percent, and we have marked the sources of this. I ask you to evaluate this 15-20 percent loss of wages with a professional eye; I see that this is not enough. It seems that many of our countrymen have lost their everyday life opportunities because of this. And it seems to me that since the government has only put a program on the table in autumn that selectively, in one or two sectors, makes up 50 percent of the wages lost, an additional spiral of unemployment will be launched. We can have a productive debate about this, but it requires not a false sense of choice to whip the opposition, but a debate at the level of numbers. I also say to the Secretary of State that you can act like a brave man, press a button and argue with numbers. The same is the case with regard to VAT. Do you know, fellow Members, why we refer to the VAT on basic foods? Because, in the period before 2010, the typical rate of general sales tax was wrongly, very wrongly increased to 25 per cent. In 2010, you came to government and what you did with the key to VAT: you raised the EU record to 27 percent. And after this 27 percent increase, selectively, in the case of 6-8 percent of the basic food product range, my fellow Member, 6-8 percent were actually allowed back to 5%. But I ask my fellow Members: how often do you shop half a pig? Seriously. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not just half a pig!]] How often do you go shopping for half a pig? I'm very happy for UHT milk, which happened a few years later. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not just UHT milk!]] However, in terms of the whole range of products, we may be talking about 10 percent after the increases, for example, we typically don't talk about fruit and vegetables. [[10.10]] The 27 per cent VAT on basic consumer goods for which a reduction would be justified has not been applied. My fellow Member L. Simon spoke about your economic philosophy. By the way, the vision of a work-based society is close to me, and that's what I've believed since I was a kid, and I don't think that's gonna change for decades later. What I do see, however, is that the redistribution of economic policy and the collection of resources under you are deeply disproportionate. I'll tell you why, at the numbers level, and they'll understand right away. Last year's budget year, there was a closing statement of approximately HUF 4300 billion paid to you by Hungarian citizens for VAT, over 4,000 billion; over 2000 billion came in from personal income tax; and now, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, mentioned the taxation of companies, planned 399 billion from corporate tax, came in about 303 billion. So you see, on one side more than 4,000 billion VAT, over 2,000 billion personal income tax and dwarf, 300 billion corporate tax. And I didn't even mention the amounts that Tao had channeled. So there are amazing imbalances in this system. This could be done well, but you collect more than 10 times as much from Hungarian citizens for VAT as small companies pay in addition to large companies. So it can be said that the tax burden on multi-company companies does not go to public burdens. I told you, style is human. I'm most disturbed by the amazing style you guys have here, the laughing, the fluttering, the continuous distribution, the left-winging in every case, also in the case of your right-wing opposition party. You can, of course, distribute stamps, but at least try to respond to the numbers. If you're right, you can deny the numbers I've told you. I am glad that my fellow Member Kósa has therefore sat down under the leadership of the Association of Brewery Brewery, that is a good thing. So what's good, we admit it. I've asked you one more specific question, and I'd like to ask you to come to that in the closet. The Audi came up, my fellow Member, L. Simon, because they did not partially compensate for his loss, but regularly and fully. These two billion make up for the total loss. I asked my colleague Kósa to say three of these brewing small factories specifically, by name, because he obviously came prepared for the debate, where the entire loss was similarly compensated by the Government of Hungary. So I don't want to have the conceptual debate as a whole here, so I'd like to see if there is such an indicator at all. When we talk about this, about replacing the total wage costs for an Audi and other large companies, and these companies have little involvement in public burdens, barely paying taxes in the Hungarian budget, do they not feel that this is difficult to call patriot economic policy? Once again, against thousands of billionaires of VAT, Szia, they can produce one or two hundred billion-dollar corporate taxes, very little, and the reduction of the corporate tax rate was only a percentage favourable to the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized sector, much more so to the multinational companies. It has come up and I say, in the defense of the President-in-Office, that I am only bringing up issues that have been mentioned by pro-government representatives as one of the cornerstones of the current Fidesz economic policy and a kind of success. I would like to confront you with the fact that the measure introduced in this spring has calculated a little over 1.5 million potential claimants, so it has been able to give a discount to roughly that many people, to be precise, with temporary relief, while the cost of their loan increased by extending the term. This has been amended by the Government of Hungary, and don't forget that. After the amendment, less than half a million people can use it. So less than a third of the potential beneficiaries have fallen, even though you knew that a horrific economic crisis was coming. Nor is it a sign of a successful crisis management that the Prime Minister announces that they are buying foreign loans of the order of 800-900 billion. That's what you've been talking about, Prime Minister, you may have heard your interview. They also see that a Chinese megaloan came into our lives at Budapest-Belgrád, and in other directions megaloans also appeared from the East. So let's not get there, like before 2010, when international loans start strangling the Hungarian economy. I don't want that back. Don't do it either. I would like to share two more little moments with you, which does not indicate that the government's crisis management is successful. One is amazing: the situation around influenza vaccines; in particular, the fact that people in vulnerable age groups, in my immediate environment, have simply failed to obtain this vaccine, and the doctors cannot tell when they will get it. So in the summer, you were unable to prepare for this absolutely fundamental and expected development, that more people would demand flu vaccines than other times. [[L. Simon László: This is a commercial law, not a flu!]] And unfortunately, there's no way. And I would also like to say once again that during the success propaganda and during the yellings, a government that allowed dozens of Hungarians to be evicted from its home without accommodation last week in the middle of an emergency emergency. Hungary does not have another government that would have given its name for more than 10,000 evictions. These are amazing numbers. In each of their personal environments, I know that there are, there must be people in reception classes who lose their homes, they're in a spiral of credit. You have failed these people in an organized manner. I am not asking you to admit all your amazing mistakes here, but I ask that, as much as we try to hold ourselves back in professional debates, at least take back the big vest so that they do not try to paint the picture as if Hungary were successfully dealing with the economic crisis, the worst of which is still ahead. Together, they could and should be treated on the basis of a national minimum, but they also need to be treated as such. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-20-34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Given that the Trade Act encourages my fellow Members to debate, both the current pandemic period and the entire economic basis, in a fundamental and principled way, I would like to remind you once again of the subject matter of the law before us. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to respond to a few things. The fact that the Prime Minister ironically said in Parliament on Monday that brandy is a basic food, and we did not understand it, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member that if an opposition politician had said that, on that day, the right-wing media would have torn it apart, that is what they would have kept saying in the news. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] So, they have double standards of speech. My fellow Member says that we will not give up the right to a normal life during the epidemic. That's a very important sentence. You know, Congressman, the majority of Hungarian families do not want to give up the right to a normal life. And when you see it in Parliament... and I am sorry, my fellow Members, how do we regulate the pálinka law and the beer law during an epidemic, how do we give discounts? They can in two or three days, if the epidemic situation is restored, we can see laws on how Parliament has worked in the last ten years, then I think that is not the most important thing. I began my speech and let me repeat, today there are at least 400 thousand children in Hungary who grow up with an alcoholic parent. Allow me not to rejoice in such legislative changes. [[L. Simon László: But that's not what this is about! Lajos Kósa: Mineral Water. It's refreshing. It's spark water.]] My fellow Member, we were not talking about mineral water in particular. [[Lajos Kósa: Can't you read this text?]] And you know it very well. [[Lajos Kósa: Fruit Drink! The president's ringing the bell.]] That all of this is going to give a very narrow circle of friends a discount. They cannot reach a 20% share in the market, because the entire capacity cannot deliver more than 6 percent in Hungary. And, I'm sorry, we weren't talking about the mineral water. It was the least I could say about the mineral water. One more thing: if we were to talk about what my fellow Members have said here in Parliament, how we could actually help workers, one more thing, and I am glad that the next law will be a social issue. Today, it was found that technical staff in educational establishments will not be screened, kitchen ladies, office workers, doormen, will not apply to them. And they will not filter out teachers in digital education, even though a ministerial letter points out that in digital education education institutions, catch-up, preparation for graduation can be continued, even though digital education has been ordered, and teachers participating in digital education can continue to attend school. What are you doing? It's like the tech guy can't catch the virus, or he can't walk in, or he can't teach... [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] That's the kind of law we should be talking about, and I'm sorry, not about brandy and beer and wine. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[10.20]]
u2020-11-20-36	Thank you. I give the floor to Nacha Lawrence, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Let us make a few things clear; first of all, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Mr Arató, who are now telling us at least a dozen times today why, what thematic laws we are discussing during the period of the pandemic. Let's see what you've submitted during the period of the pandemic, and I'm not saying that it's not important questions, just tell us where it has to do with the epidemic, for example, with the discovery of the past of the state commissioner submitted by LMP. Where does it have to do with the pandemic situation Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's proposals, the Btk. Is it a matter of tightening up and driving without a driver's license? Then explain it to me, honourable Member, because you have submitted these. Where does the pandemic situation have to do with the state ownership and state reservation of the University of Theatre and Film Arts? Because these were submitted in the middle of a pandemic situation. Or it is Mr Arató's presentation of where the pandemic situation is related to the settlement of the municipal solidarity tax next year. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] So you are constantly submitting individual MEPs' proposals, which also have nothing to do with the pandemic situation, because this is also the law of the Members and the Government. You are attacking a Member of Parliament here, my fellow Member, Kósa, because you have exercised your right to represent you, because you have tabled a bill, while you want to discuss SZFE, the history of state security, Btk. and driving without a licence. And I am not saying that these should not be important issues, I am not saying that we should not argue about it in the committees where it belongs, in a committee, or we should not argue about it here in Parliament, because these are important questions. But the double standard that Congresswoman is talking about, and while they're filing the same laws, the laws that are not related to the CDC, you personally have your signature on it, I've looked at it, and I think it's a classified case of double standards. I envy my colleague Kósa because Ildikó Bangóné Borbély says that he is in favour of his circle of friends. Well, there's about six or eight thousand small-scale breweries in Hungary. Having such a circle of friends is, however, enviable that it is so widely known to my fellow Member. But I hope that'll calm you down, too. Mr harvesto said that the government did not report on the epidemiological situation here in Parliament, which we voted on together is a law, and it was in it. Let's watch Monday. You answered for an hour and asked Minister Gulyás, who, on behalf of the government, told you what the government had done with the extraordinary mandate. Then, for an hour and a half, the members of the government were asked in the speeches before the agenda, then for two hours on the immediate questions, of which the Prime Minister himself answered their questions for an hour. This is a total of four and a half hours only on Monday, when the government reported to you and, of course, to us in front of the House of Parliament. Mr Csárdi mentioned EU competition law and the role of the Economic Competition Authority. I think that's just ignorance. By the way, Mr President, you know very well that EU competition law must be enforced by the Economic Competition Authority, and it is also included in EU competition law that exclusivity contracts can otherwise be concluded if the market share of that company is below 30 per cent. Believe me, these big companies will make sure that they do not reach 30 percent, and therefore exclusivity contracts can be concluded under EU competition law. Which is why we need to go into this law now and give help and opportunity to small breweries. And I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpa, that when the government submitted the bill on bank accountability and the law on forinting, your fellow parties largely did not vote for it, for example, Gábor Vona, for example, so ask him to do so. On the other hand, I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that a moratorium on eviction is still in place for the pro-government proposal. I would like to clarify another misunderstanding with Dániel Z. Carpathian, who directly keeps saying that, says long - term milk. All forms of milk, except breast milk, are subject to VAT of 5%, for all milk except for breast milk. So once again, it is directly half-swine and long-term milking, while it knows exactly what the 5% VAT is, and it knows exactly that when it buys milk for its family, that is the 5% VAT, but there is a conscious misdirection again. It is particularly amusing that Congressman pretends that the Audi does not contribute in any way to the Hungarian economy, because he does not pay taxes, he receives state aid, has no impact on the Hungarian economy. This is a category of humor, that the many thousands of workers, the supply chain, of which a very large part is the supply chain of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and otherwise, the activity of Audi itself would not have a huge impact on the Hungarian economy, and Mr. What Congressman is saying is that he has been supporting the work-based economy for nearly 30 years, and I am very pleased about that. I am pleased that we are in agreement on this point and that I and she are in favour of the work-based economy. Only then would I have the slightest comment and question to the Member why he would then support those who, on the other hand, would like to introduce the aid-based economy, such as the representative of DK and the representative of the MSZP, for what consideration he would then support those who would like to return to the aid-based economy, as we have already seen between 2004 and 2010. So, in fact, this is the irresolvable contrast that Daniel Z. Carpathian himself should solve, and the great collapse can begin. Thank you very much. [[L. Simon Laszlo applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-38	Thank you. I'll ask Congressman Nacsa if he's still holding on to the two-minute... [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Then I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató of DK for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, I'd like to start by saying, Mr. Congressman L. Simon, I didn't say a stinking word about it. [[L. Simon László:]] what I think of the local economy, national patriotism or the opposite. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Well, that's it!]] I was talking about what they should be dealing with at this time rather than dealing with beer market issues. I also said that I would be happy to debate this issue at other times, when otherwise we have nothing more important to do. I don't think you participated in the summer debate. You will look back at what we talked about there, it will be worth it, perhaps it will be instructive before you judge your fellow Members and before you slander them. As regards what should be dealt with, I think that Mr Nacsa has set a great example of this, because the bill that we have tabled and which deals with the solidarity tax of local governments is indeed something that should be dealt with now, because it has to be paid at the end of the year, because it puts the municipalities in an impossible position, which otherwise has a lot of work to do in the disease management, because it is economically a type of issue that cannot be dealt with in regulation governance, because it does not refer exclusively to the period of emergency. I suggest to you, after this proposal has been made by the local councilman Judit Földi from Székesfehérvár to call Mr Cser-Palkovics, the mayor of Székesfehérvár, and ask what it means for them to pay the solidarity tax on the revenue that the local government will not receive because of the epidemic. Now, these are real problems, these are problems you can't wait to deal with, and things you have to deal with right now. Such matters should be dealt with by Parliament. The fact that you have not said anything about economic crisis management for four and a half hours is not a substitute for a substantive debate. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman Kósa.
u2020-11-20-41	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to get back to the proposal to amend the Trade Act. Basically, I hope that the adoption of the law will not prevent small manufacturers from accessing the market. This is far from supporting small manufacturers. Support is another matter. I very much hope that a further step will be if the government takes into account among the instruments of economic development that small manufacturers are facing other difficulties. I would just like to mention here that, for example, the availability and production of preservatives or, for example, the various manufacturing aids in Hungary are extremely poor. What has happened here in the last thirty years only in beer, is that basically Hungarian hops cannot be produced or produced in Hungary today, and can not be obtained, while we know that Hungarian hops are precisely the speciality of Hungarian hops, which makes Hungarian hops and Hungarian beer Hungarian beer. But I could say, by the way, that the production of various fruit juices is the intermediate or the ingredients, while, by the way, it is really terrible to drink the otherwise already diluted orange juice from concentrate, which is brought here in a variety of different qualities from the countries of the world over a thousand kilometers away, and, for the record, few people know that it is really drinkable because of the fact that there is Hungarian apple juice, the additive, the most important additive. [[10.30]] In the meantime, great manufacturers such as DÉR do not enter the market, which is one of the top quality fruit juice manufacturers. But it would be unworthy to highlight anyone, because there are extremely many, and with fantastic products. In Zemplén you can meet small plants, and the goods are completely available, their problem is that they can't get out, they make forest fruit juices, they're fantastic. If we can help them a little, it is important, and I hope we will go further, because what my fellow Member L. Simon talked about is true, it is much more than just a simple economic or competition regulation, trade proposal. This follows us everywhere, because wherever we go to a restaurant in any part of the country, we may be drinking a glass of water or some juice or a glass of beer. I would very, very much like to see the culture that my fellow Member L. Simon mentioned about wine, that Szekszárd is really the most graciously saying, sir, if you want to drink Eger bulls, you should definitely go to Eger, it's fantastic, I can only recommend it, but Szekszárd has bull's blood and how right you are! If you think about how this whole global cylinder is going through us, and we don't even realize how it's tearing people's identities apart, let me tell you a very nice story in closing, because it's also about our identity, our identity. Today, people do not know what my fellow Member, Mr Simon, said that the drink, Ágnes Mohai, was otherwise classified as one of the best mineral waters in the world in the '30s, and instead we drink the horror that the two large manufacturers make of America here in Hungary, in the home of mineral waters. By the way, in one of the most expensive hotels in Taiwan, the Taiwanese leadership gave us a guest of honor, I was out with a delegation and they served green tea. I said I'd have a sugar cube in the green tea, and the waiter said it wasn't the best place. We don't put sugar cubes in green tea, go somewhere else, not here. And I realized how right you are, and how right the man who says he wants to drink Pavai Vajna in Szoboszlo, and how true it is for someone who says that I want to drink the apple pressed from the szabolcs and not centrifuged apple juice because it's the best in the world. If we help this, we will not change the world, but by the way, in the United States, small producers own 25% of the total market revenue with a share of 12%. In English: these are also in the quality category. Let's give him a hand. It will strengthen us, discover a lot of things we don't know about, and then perhaps it can be avoided that centuries of tradition mean nothing to us. We do not know how the boots came into the Hungarian language from a beer consumption case. We do not know who says the toast, too, it came from such a gastronomic tradition into the Hungarian language. Let's find out, and then we'll all be richer. Then I would like to persuade the pro-government representatives to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on child protection and social matters until closure. The government referral T/13644. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, to present the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In the fight against the corona virus, it becomes even more crystal clear that social care is a matter for all of us in the Community. The fact that work in the social field and the protection of children, and the assistance of our otherwise disabled compatriots, are not only private matters for two people and not only for the social area or for the child protection area and for the government, but also for all of us. There is a great burden and responsibility for the social sphere, and our priority is to develop a more targeted and efficient service provision in this situation as well. In peacetime, we also look after our elderly parents, children without their families, the needy, our disabled fellow citizens, or our homeless countrymen, but at the time of the epidemic, we feel even more obligated to use all our resources to help the area function more effectively. The government is committed to developing high-quality services, effective responsibilities and family-oriented child protection in the social and child protection field. The amendments contained in the proposal serve these objectives and confirm the Government's intention to support the efforts of people with disabilities to rehab and social inclusion. With the proposed legislation, it intends to continue to develop transformation processes in social, child welfare and child protection services that have started in previous years, transparency of the supply system and more targeted provision of services. Dear House, Please allow me to explain the substance of the bill. First, an amendment to the amount of municipal aid. Since the restructuring of the system of social cash benefits in 2015, municipalities have been given the opportunity to set up a system of care that responds better to local needs. The aid granted by local authorities is determined by the municipal authorities within the framework of the social law. This bill aims to change the maximum amount of municipal care allowance to the basic amount of the care allowance instead of the minimum pension. The amendment provides an opportunity for local authorities to grant higher municipal aid in parallel with the increase in the amount of care premiums. The second is to modify the objectives of home-building support. It is an important pillar of strengthening local communities to provide for children who are not raised in their own families. We must pay particular attention to the support of young adults who are out of child protection. In view of the specific rights and interests of children, the Child Protection Act sets out the support and service elements to protect children from the family and to assist in the subsequent social integration of young adults from the child protection system. One of the goals of child protection is spiritual healing, which will be successful if the young person out of care finds his place in life, in adulthood he does not need the social care system, he becomes a tax-paying citizen, founding a single family. With the current bill, we will provide for the possibility for a permanently ill or disabled youth to pay for the contribution to smaller, more familyly, supported housing from home creation support. The third amendment is an amendment supporting foster care and clarifying the employment relationship. We want to emphasize it over and over again because we consider it important that every child has the right to be raised in the family, that only a strong nation and a strong community can provide safety for children who, for some reason, had to start at a disadvantage, or that life has led to the need to help and support them. Therefore, we will further strengthen foster care in the child protection field. The additional fee for foster parents providing special, special and dual needs will be adjusted from 5 percent to 7 percent of the minimum wage so far, increasing to help raise their activities that are challenging to care. [[10.40]] Due to the Covid epidemic, we extend the deadline for the foster parent's central education programme, and the training is free of charge for foster parents. The fourth major amendment is the extension of post-care care in maintenance powers for young adults who are studying. In addition to strengthening family-centred child protection, we must pay close attention to the preparation of young people from the institutional system for adult life. The amendment of the law therefore allows not only those who study higher education and secondary education to remain in post-care care, but also those who study in vocational training and secondary school, rather than only those who are 30 years of age. The fifth amendment is an extension of the possibility of requesting data from the IT system for the protection of our children. Not only will we strengthen the child protection system, but we will also speed up the flow of information between authorities, so we will create the possibility for judges, prosecutors, investigative authorities, protective supervisory services and penitentiary institutions to directly request data from the IT system for the protection of our children. The sixth important amendment is the creation of legal bases for disability counselling. On the next item, we will discuss strengthening employment with disabilities. Those amendments, as well as this bill, show that the government has broken off with the practice that the social area is about expressing regret, instead our aim is to build on opportunities, chance and value creation. With the current amendments, we will strengthen the integration and completion of people with disabilities into society. That is why we are proposing the possibility of consulting for their lives. The disability advisor available at family and child welfare centres has special expertise and a wide network of contacts across a wide range of fields. The seventh amendment is to facilitate the elimination of non-registered social services because they have been a recurring problem for years without an operating licence for social services providers. The bill allows the State Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection to have authority to ensure that it is entitled to enter and take action at the place where the service is provided, to assess the health status of the persons to be provided and to assess what kind of care is to be provided to them. Finally, the last one that changes data management in the case of street social work, because the many challenging areas of the social care system are homelessness, which is abundant in many individual and individual situations of life. So far, the data of homeless people living on the streets could not be processed in the case of street social work. With this amendment, personal data, such as life, physical health, social services and health benefits, can be handled in the manner laid down by law in order to transfer personal data to an institution or other accommodation. Dear House, As I mentioned at the outset, the work in the social field is indeed not only a matter for two people and not only for the profession and the government, but for all of us. The amendments in the bill before you concern social cash benefits, child protection and social and child welfare services. The government has broken off with the practice that the social area is only about expressing regret, because instead it needs to be built on odds, not on aid, but on chances. With the proposed legislation, we want to continue the transformation process in social, child welfare and child protection services that started in previous years, making it more transparent and providing more targeted services. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for listening, and please support our proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-44	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Gergely Tapolczai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-45	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Article XV of the Fundamental Law of Hungary Article 2 of the Treaty states: Hungary protects families, children, women, the elderly and people with disabilities through specific measures. Since the adoption of the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, since 1998, it has been the duty of the current Government to work in accordance with the National Disability Programme and the Annexes thereto adopted during that period and to fulfil any obligations relating to persons with disabilities, such as education, leisure, culture, sport, access to public services or the provision of equal opportunities or employment. In 2015, the government adopted the ten-year disability programme, continuing its work along the lines of the tasks set out therein, and it can be seen from the past period that a great deal has been done and a great deal has been achieved. The burden of social care systems has been reduced, administrative burdens have been reduced in some areas, half of the public health professionals have to apply so often for certificates of eligibility, for disabled people or for severely ill children, if their condition is final, they no longer need to undergo a five-year review. In 2018, the government decided to step up the number of guardians and child rights representatives, i.e. members of the child protection expert committees, and more space for children with special needs in order to strengthen child protection. From 2021, support will be higher for all social and child protection tasks than at present. Some examples. Family members who care for disabled relatives were available to support HUF 55 billion in 2020, and in 2010 it was HUF 15 billion, so it can be seen that the government is committed to this, and in addition to further measures, it is very important that local governments, local advocacy organisations and churches should be involved in this, so that they can help to carry out these tasks. I would like to highlight a few amendments to the bill before us. [[10.50]] With regard to the amendment of the social law, Minister of State also mentioned that the amendment of the legislation to the aid for care premiums provides that instead of the minimum pension in the current legislation, the basic amount of the care fee should be the maximum amount that can be paid, i.e. the possibility of local authorities to set the amount. According to the current legislation, the two provisions have conflicted, and this amendment resolves this. I would like to point out that the County City Association and the leaders of several local governments have also indicated that this is a very important need for amendment. This amending proposal resolves the contradiction and expands the potential of the local government. The amendment to the purpose of the home creation aid also mentioned by the Secretary of State the inclusion of subsidised housing in the use of home-building aid, thereby facilitating the housing of people with disabilities and facilitating the possibility of financing smaller homes from this support. It is very important for me that the Disability Council creates the possibility of creating legislation, and there is a so-called montage project. The longer name for this is the development of access to professional and public services for people with disabilities. Within the framework of this priority project, a network of people with disabilities and their families will be set up to respond professionally to the needs of disabled persons and their families and to create such an infrastructure, develop systemic services and make these services available. This amendment provides the opportunity for new services to be created in family and child welfare centres by disability consultants. Disability advisers shall have specific knowledge and expertise. So far, family and child welfare centres have not had such experts. This amendment replaces this. The task of the disability consultant is to provide advice to families with disabilities, to communicate with them, to provide information, and to develop social skills, to set up and organise administrative and community groups, to operate them, and to cooperate with the various public service institutions, advocacy organisations and health institutions. It can also assist in the provision of services to disabled persons and their families. It is involved in special services to support individual living and carries out mediation tasks, as well as contacts with other disability consultants. This project will be completed in 2021, and it is mandatory and justified to maintain this further, facilitating access to information, access and quality of life for family members of persons with disabilities. If the amendment is accepted, the disability advisory activities in the designated family and child welfare centres will continue with 42 senior advisors as from 1 January 2022. The cost of this is also covered by EU funds until 30 September 2021, then domestic funds are available within the EMMI budget, and, of course, this additional resource will have to be planned for the budget from 2022. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] With regard to the amendment of the Child Protection Act, I would like to say that this is a very important and forward-looking amendment. It is a step forward that in the case of parents who are unable to perform their duties for health reasons, they do not cease to have employment relations, as this has been possible so far. That was unfair regulation. This amending proposal will put an end to this situation. It is then possible to terminate the relationship only if the foster parent becomes unfit to perform the task or is not cooperating. In this case, the foster family will not be entitled to termination periods or severance payments. This amendment contains this, and I agree with that. On the other amendments, the Secretary of State has already said the main and more relevant points. I think it's an epidemic or not, it's a very important proposal, regardless, to help people with disabilities, children and their families. As stated in the National Disability Programme, we are committed to issues affecting people with disabilities in all areas of life, and we are committed to further measures. I support this proposal on behalf of the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-20-46	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás, and I welcome everyone. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to say that, whether in the protection of children or in the care and care of the elderly, I would like to say in summary that all positive changes in the social sphere are positive for us, and we can only support it. Just as the proposal before us makes a number of positive changes in the system in which we must be honest and there is something to be improved. A number of changes have been made in recent years, over the last decades, but there is not enough to deal with, as a number of changes still need to be made in a number of areas. What I would first like to suggest to the Secretary of State and also to ask him: an appropriate bill can be made if the rapporteur, with the involvement of the professional organisations, makes the decision and prepares the documents by which the present bill is presented to the decision-makers. [[11.00]] I therefore ask with great respect whether there has been consultation with professional organisations, because let us be honest, although there are decision-makers sitting in this room, the representatives of the profession are outside this circle, even though we can make appropriate decisions based on their professional opinion that are good for the whole sector and good for the profession. In connection with the information system for the protection of our children, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether the introduction of IT tools for family support has been carried out from March, whether there is central budget development support for this, or whether the institutions may have to manage it from their own budget. I would like to point out that in recent years there has been nothing more to do with ongoing budgetary problems than with these family support organisations, since they are given plenty of tasks, but not budget resources, budget support and competence. So this is a very important question. Please give them all the help they need. Mr State Secretary said that the government's aim, among other things, is to build on opportunities, opportunities and value creation. I can totally agree with that. I just want to add value. I think that the system and the system managers need the utmost respect, and that is what is missing from the current system. A few thoughts about the social sphere, speaking of appreciation. This is what is very lacking in both material and moral terms. Let's just think about the fact that from child protection, children's homes, people with disabilities, people with addictions, to nursing homes, not missing the poor, the fallen, all belong to the social sphere, otherwise the whole social sphere is about raising the poor, the fallen, helping them, and our job is to give them everything. Yet, a social pedagogical assistant with 40-42 years of work brings home a net salary of HUF 159 thousand. All this with a basic salary of HUF 105 thousand, which the employer still needs to add to 210, must be added once again in order to have the guaranteed minimum wage, then some extra money, and thus comes out a net salary of HUF 159 thousand. I think it is unworthy, both financially and morally, that, although they have studied a profession, they view their profession as a profession, and they do so in their everyday work. This is due, among other things, to the fact that in this sector, the social sector, there are areas where there are 30 and there are areas where there are 70 percent labour shortages. That is why I respectfully ask the government, through the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, to do everything in order to ensure that the social sphere is respected, because their work is done perfectly well by the employees of the sector, so it is important that it can be a financially and morally respected sector. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to add two things to your attention: one is a family allowance and the other is a minimum pension. Since 2008, there has been no change in the increase in the family allowance, not even in the fact that it has been made a follow-up to inflation. The government has put in place a number of support for families, which we agree with, and we must agree with all the good Hungarian people who aim to protect families and create their well-being, so we agree with Jobbik to the full. At the same time, it is the family allowance that reaches all families, all families that have children, and for all families who have children, that could have a positive effect. It hasn't even been subject to inflation since 2008. I think this should be one of the first steps. The other is a matter of minimum retirement. Minimum pensions have also not been raised since 2008. There are many, tens of thousands of people living, mainly in the countryside, on minimum pensions of twenty-one thousand forints. Believe me, I know that there was a congressman who said that it was possible to live on 47,000 forints, and I doubt that, too, but how to make a living in the poor, usually alone, little retirement area is unimaginable. In order to make an international comparison, the average national earnings for OECD member countries were compared to the minimum pension, and Hungary is among the hosts in this respect. If we were to raise the minimum pension value to HUF 80,000, I would not say that we have to increase it so much now, but I would just like to illustrate how much we have fallen behind in this competition compared to the current average salary, then we would be at the level of Brazil. We are very behind on this issue, and it is crucial and necessary to deal with it. For us, this is an opportunity and it is necessary to deal with it, but for those who are deeply affected every day, it is a matter of life. Dear Secretary of State, All proposals and legislative proposals which are working to improve the situation of children, in general the social sphere, and suggest that Jobbik will support it, so we support this bill. I would like to ask you to try to incorporate what I have said into a legislative proposal for a next amendment. Think about what else we can do in this sphere, because you know there's a lot of work to be done. I'm not saying that everything can be solved at the same time, but that we have to do it nice and steady, that's for sure. You started by saying that the aim is to build opportunities, opportunities and value creation, and I would like to add that it is to create appreciation. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Péter Harrach. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-49	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go to the amendment, allow me to make a comment on the victimous work of social workers. Especially now, at the time of the pandemic, their work deserves respect and recognition. Before the two amendments to the law, I would like to talk about what is extremely important, the few sentences that make up the spirit of the two laws, which must, of course, comply with all the amendments. When talking about the Child Protection Act, it may be necessary to highlight the sentence that all children must grow up in families. When we amended the law a few years ago, we took a series of ideas that began with the idea that adoption must be carried out first and foremost, if this fails, putting the child into foster care, because it is also a family, if it is not, a small family home of 10-12 people. So the goal was to bring the child into the family. Adoption comes first because there is the intention of finality, which means that the family, the parent, tells the child that you are one of us, no matter what happens, your place here, you are important to us, and we trust you. Of course, this should also appear in the foster family, but it is not, by its nature, to be accepted into such a family, and there is no such marked aspect of finality. Nevertheless, it is very important that the amendments to the law now deal with foster parents. What can we say about social law, its spirit? Clearly, the wealthier have the task of supporting those in need. This is important not only in individual life, but also in the life of society. This one has the technique and the means. I believe that raising self-esteem is definitely part of helping. I could also say that it is possible to provide a job, as opposed to aid, with the exception of a crisis, because aid is needed in a crisis situation. For example, the case of people with disabilities should be seen as a permanent crisis. [[11.10]] But we cannot agree with the idea of the liberal side of the basic income, as it is now a form of relief that does not serve the desire to work, so it does not serve the health of society as a whole. These two laws, like most laws, require maintenance based on the needs of implementation. If you look at these headlines, which have been found here in the amendment of the law, you will meet this condition, for example, in the case of street social work; obviously, the need for social workers has brought this amendment here; or the extension of the request for data from the IT system, which is already mentioned for the protection of our children. But not only is maintenance an aspect of these two laws, but the difference that does not arise in the previous commercial law, for example, is that it is about the man in every case. And let me give you just a few more examples. For example, an amendment to the amount of municipal aid, which raises the aid that can be paid by the municipality up to the basic amount of the care fee. But, for example, the amendment supporting foster care and clarifying the employment relationship in the foster family, which my fellow Member has just mentioned. Or, for example, the extension of post-care care for young adults who are studying them, this is also the humane change. If I may, I would like to highlight two issues from the amendment, and one of these two issues deals with the care fee and its surroundings. There are three important categories of this area in the case of a patient or person with a permanent disability in the family. One is the care of a relative adult receiving the above-mentioned municipal allowance. Here, there was a serious increase: over HUF 39 000, which corresponds to the basic amount of the care fee. The other category is a relative under 18 years of age, whose care is already done directly with this name, with the benefit of the care fee, and here we have to mention three items, the basic amount, the increased amount and the priority care fee. This ranges from 39 365 to 70 860, which will increase in each case next year. And here I have to tell you about what the new support introduced last year, I mean, 2019, the children's home care fee, the weed. That was 100,000 forints at first. This year it will be 123 900 HUF, and next year 140 680 HUF for the care of a child. This is a significant change because it applies to all children, not just minors, but those whose parents are forced to care for their children at home without work, regardless of how old the child is, will receive this support. The other area worth noticing in the amendment is that of foster parents. It has already been said that in the case of an employment relationship, if the parent is temporarily unable to perform his/her duties because of his/her illness, the amendment indicates that the employment relationship is no longer withdrawn. This is a humane measure that is natural for a child raised in a family and for a foster parent. And this is where I have to tell you not only about parents, but also about young people who are receiving public care. The amendment of the law prolongs post-care care in the event that young people study and support it until they are 30 years of age. I would also like to highlight another amendment to young people involved in public care, which means the use of assisted housing by using home-building support. Therefore, these measures, which appear here in the amendment, always reflect the needs of the practice, and include the humane measures that are being taken for those affected, whether by the foster parent or by a child living in state care, ensure this amendment. Of course, in light of these, our faction also supports the presentation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-20-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I would forward it, precisely because there has been a rather ember debate in the previous law, that this bill will be supported by the MSZP fraction group, because any proposals that will help families in any way, and we must now pay greater attention to vulnerable social groups in the event of an epidemic, I think that we cannot go beyond our support to the government. Mr Secretary of State has told us in quite detail what the amendment of the laws on child protection and social matters will be about, and the pro-government speakers have also said, but let me also highlight a few things from this law. III on social management and social benefits in 1993 Some of the amendments to Law No.52: As of 1 January 2022, disability counselling as a service will be incorporated into the framework of family and child welfare services. The service contributes to the well-being of individuals, families, improving their quality of life and ability to lead lives, helping them access public services, information and care. The Disability Advisor focuses on responding to and solving disability issues, has a key role to play in providing wide range of professional information, contacting, developing and maintaining cooperation, and facilitating the use of special services. We are talking about a very important matter here, and I am missing one half sentence about how important it is to sensitize society in relation to people with disabilities. And I have one question, because this is a very important point of the amendment: why are we waiting until 2022? And my other question is, who's gonna do all these things? What qualifications should those who will provide this counseling be qualified to have? Because what we see in recent years is the lack of social care systems for professionals who could play a role in the care or assistance of people with disabilities. The deadline set by last year's law is extended: the complex needs assessment of persons receiving care in a nursing home for disabled persons or in a nursing home for disabled persons on 1 January 2020 should not be carried out until the end of 2020 but until the end of 2021. This is due to the suspension of peer reviews ordered for a coronal virus epidemic. This is also a very important task that needs to be done. [[11.20]] Of course, we agree that we protect those persons who are involved in health care and social care as much as possible, and of course, of course, of course, of course, we understand that this task is being pushed away by a year. But then let me draw your attention to Mr Secretary of State, I do not know if you were in the previous debate, today we have noticed that in the context of the tests that we have been asking the government for months to carry out regular screenings among the first-line health and social workers and educators, to test these workers, thanks to God, we now see that it will finally start, but, Mr. State Secretary, the technical staff of educational institutions will be excluded from testing. Here I think about the office staff, through the doorman to the kitchen lady, they go into the institution, they meet the children, they meet the employees, the parents, and they can't be left out of this testing cycle, because they're at least as much at risk as teachers. The other group who misses out is teachers in digital education, even though they also have cases where they have to go to school. It is precisely a ministerial letter that provides for a derogation from digital education and, let's say, a preparation for children's graduations, competitions, I think we are talking about online competitions, digitally possible competitions. Or you can ask teachers for a personal meeting in addition to digital education in connection with catching up. I don't think they can be left out of this test cycle either. Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like you to do this as soon as possible. I know this problem doesn't belong to you, but you can tell the Secretary of State that he can represent us. The proposal provides for the possibility of entering and taking action in order to ensure effective action against illegal services, like the Government Office, by a public maintainer with no official authority. This is also a very important part of this amendment. Here, I would like to ask for information, if you know, Mr Secretary, about the number of illegal service providers in Hungary and the types of services they know about such abuses. It is very important that we also know numerically that we are opposition politicians. XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management The substance of the law and some of these points, because the speakers before me have already said a lot - : the legal list of those who carry out child protection tasks is added to the list of the local government's notary and the CVIII of 2020 amending certain laws in order to better protect victims of serious violence against persons against relatives. In accordance with the amendment of law to the Penitentiary and the Protective Detention Inspectors. We say many times that the child protection system and the crimes committed to harm children need to be discussed as much as possible in this House, and that as many laws as possible are needed to protect children in this regard, and, of course, every time we say how important it is to operate, support and develop the signalling system. There is a lot of talk about children's welfare centers, the foster care network, how it is now clarified that it is possible to give up on the foster family. Here, my fellow Member from KDNP started with the adoption, so let me not go without saying that we have just recently discussed the tightening up where, in essence, singles, partners or gay couples can only adopt a separate ministerial license in Hungary. Yet today, about a thousand children are officially adopted each year, and ten percent of these children, a little over a hundred children, were adopted by single parents. I do not think that it is in our common interest that as many children as possible can grow up in the family, and in Hungary there would be an annual need to adopt about 2,700 children, but in contrast, about a thousand children will be adopted by adoptive parents. I think that we should not tighten this up, but develop legislation that would make it easier for these children to get into a family as soon as possible, especially when we now see that it is almost impossible to adopt a child over the age of ten today. Over the age of three, the adoption of children to whom I think everyone would agree that it would be best if they were raised in a family. The increase in the fees of parents who care for children with special, special or dual needs is so minimal, and indeed, Secretary of State, let me ask you... Because it is raised from 5 per cent to 7 per cent, this is about a three thousand forint item, and I think that those who raise sick children should not raise their remuneration by three thousand forints, I think it is rather humiliating. I know that every forint counts, in every family, especially now in this economic situation, but this increase from 5 percent to 7 percent is so minimal that I would ask you to consider this: there is more to admit the work of these parents. And one more point: a further extension of the deadline for foster parenting shows that the government has not been very successful in achieving the goals it has set. First they aimed at the end of 2014 and then at the end of 16 and later in 2016 they pushed the end of these trainings to 18 and 20 in 18, and now they are pushing the end of these trainings to 22 and 22 respectively. If you have anything to say about this, Secretary of State, why the end of these trainings has been delayed for so long, I would appreciate it if you would answer that. Here is another crucial point to raise daycare awards. We don't understand why we have to continue to increase daycare fees. I think it should be erased. We also know that it was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, but it should be abolished. They keep saying how important it is to build as many nurserys as possible in Hungary, which we can support, because one of the tools of returning to work is for mothers to place their children and go back to work. But it can be a very heavy burden for a family if you can only place your child in a nursery and most kindergartens are like that if you can't get an exemption from it, where you have to pay a pretty high kindergarten care fee. I said at the beginning that we would support this initiative, but then let me ask Mr. Secretary of State what we have been asking of the opposition and the Hungarian Socialist Party for weeks and months now to consider giving the workers in the social sector a one-time payment of HUF 500,000. Because you've said exactly what you've said in your intro, and the pro-government politicians have acknowledged that during this period, when we see the epidemic every day, the situation is getting worse and worse, it means more and more work for those working in the social sector, and I think that there is no way, there is no way to thank you, but I think that they deserve this one-time supplement, because they are doing inhuman work. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Humane!]] Every day. And here we are talking about the care of elderly people, the care of people with disabilities and the care of children, I think it's worth all the money and must be supported by all means. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[11.30]]
u2020-11-20-53	[[No microphones.]] Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, we have said on several occasions that Parliament is now dealing with legislative proposals that should not be discussed now, not during the epidemic, not when we have much more serious and important things, such as, say, dealing with the benefits of brewing. Well, that's the exception or one of the exceptions, to be exact. This is a bill that has several elements... [[Interjection: Microphone!]] Oh, I'm sorry.
u2020-11-20-54	Get the mike! No problem. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: At last he praises me, and then...]] Would you like to start over, Congressman? We'll wait. [[Gergely Harvesto turns on his microphone.]] Got it.
u2020-11-20-55	First I found my spot, then I found my microphone.
u2020-11-20-56	No problem, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-57	My apologies, Honourable House. I would therefore like to return to the fact that, in principle, there are a number of elements of this bill which are justified, necessary and cannot wait, since it regulates human relations and relations, and I agree with Mr Harrach, Group leader, which is indeed an important, significant change, which has a significant impact on people's lives. We therefore fundamentally support a substantive debate on this bill, and we find a significant part of the measures contained in the bill worthy of support and support. Even where there is doubt, the main reason we have doubts is because we consider the steps taken by the government to be too small, too small a step, or we fear that, for example, the conditions of implementation are not guaranteed by other government policies. Let me give you a very tangible example. We are in favour of increasing the ceiling for certain social benefits provided by the municipalities. That's right, you have to align it with the care fee, it's totally fine. But how should municipalities pay social benefits when other government measures are taken to distract local government resources? We have talked about it today, and I do not want to start this debate again, but today most municipalities do not have any additional resources to provide social benefits to the population, while this would be fundamentally necessary in the current situation, because we may not argue that the epidemic has led to many families and many people who have become more difficult and more complicated. The situation is similar for people with disabilities. Of course, counseling is important, but what would really help would be a type of employment system that really gives many people the opportunity to join the labour market. I'd like to argue, Mr. Secretary, that Mr. Secretary of State is always saying that you came up with this. This is not the case, it is a decade-long effort in the social profession, in the employment profession, all governments have sought it. It's an exciting professional debate about who's successful, and sometimes even what other interests have played a role in this decision or that decision, but we agree on that, it's okay. In this, counseling is an existing, important element, contributing to this success, but far from believing that what is happening in this area is enough. It's the same with foster parents, you're solving a real problem here. I think we are in favour of this, and obviously the people involved are grateful, but since it is in our best interest that the foster care system work well, I can say that we ourselves thank you for this. At the same time, I have to say that foster parents also have a lot of problems, requests, difficulties, in which they asked for the government's support and received no meaningful, supportive answers. What I can tell you about the bill is that what is in the bill is in agreement with us, or we agree on almost everything, and I am going to mention an element where we have doubts, but we do not want to take more, more steps in a number of areas. I said that we have a serious doubt about the bill, and I would like to be reassured by the Secretary of State. The government extends data processing rights to the social profession in this bill to a very significant extent. We do not dispute that this may be necessary, but we all know that we are talking about very sensitive data in a large part of the cases, and we therefore miss the outcome of the consultation with the Data Protection Commissioner on the grounds of the bill. If this has happened, please reassure us, Mr Secretary, and inform us that these rules are also in order from a data protection point of view. We have some concern in this, I repeat, not arguing that there may be a need for data processing to be more extensive than before, because it can help the work of assisting professionals. At the same time, I cannot go without saying that there are a number of issues in the wider social field that are important at the time of the epidemic, at the time of the epidemic, and that it is important for the government to take action in these matters. My fellow Members have already mentioned this, and I am just confirming them: this is the increase in the amount of care premiums not only for those who care for their children, but also for those who care for their elderly relatives, which is a significant increase; such is the increase in minimum pensions; such is the recognition of social workers, because it is very appropriate and appropriate to thank them, but they will not only need to thank them, but also to carry out something with their wages, it is a substantial, big step, not just cosmetics, as is happening recently, and that they will receive it, at least those who are standing right next to older people, to children who are also at great risk, the wage supplement that health workers have finally received. So I think that we fundamentally agree with the intentions of the bill, that we are discussing the bill, that we agree. Whether we will finally be able to support the bill will depend on whether we will be answered in the further debate and whether the government will be open to improving the bill with amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Basically, I was very pleased to see the social sector being discussed in Parliament now, during the epidemic, and that legislative amendments would be made. These legislative amendments, presented by the Secretary of State, are essentially to be supported and represent a step in a positive direction. I would particularly like to highlight what I know is that Mr Secretary of State's personal case: the repeated amendment to the foster family network. The foster family network is very important, and it is important that the government treats this as a central issue. I would go through a few points of the law and ask questions, and then I would respond in a few ways to my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, because, to tell you, I would like to say it, and it must be very sad that, in this case, I do not think that this is the usual ideological debate between the government and the opposition, this is a much more political debate, and the great ideological statements that my fellow Member has made, I do not think they are necessarily relevant, but this would be just a genre-cleaning sentence. On the subject of data management, my fellow Member, Mr Arató, has actually told me everything I think needs to be said. Here, in connection with street social work, there are some problems that need to be solved in an epidemic situation. Honestly, a very special and difficult thing about homelessness during a coronal virus epidemic, we all know that this is extremely difficult to organise, so that both the workers and the homeless people are in some way medically sound and can provide comfort. Many times, and many social workers working in homeless care have said that they cannot produce two negative tests for homeless people who go into the accommodations, because they do not have the opportunity to obtain this in private care, and many do not have a general physician. In addition, temporary hostels do not function fully at the moment, and I think the Secretary of State can confirm that, so there are a lot of homeless people who do not participate in temporary care. I'm telling you, I know this is a complex question, but if you could respond to how the social government is trying to solve this case, so that homeless people don't get exposed to health risks, that would be important, because this is also an important point right now, during the coronal virus epidemic in the social system. With regard to the care fee, it is basically a good thing to increase this part of the settlement and to increase this maximum. The care fee is a state task, so the care fee in the current system is largely financed by the state, and the state risk community that you allegedly defended politically in the 2009 referendum is part of the care fee. [[11.40]] Therefore, in any way to pass this on to the municipalities, I think it is fundamentally wrong. I thought, on the basis of the 2004 proposal of Mátrai Márta, that you were in the same position. And that is completely inexplicable, and there is no reason why there are differences between those who care for their children and their elderly relatives, and why the care fee is 58 thousand forints for those who do not care for their children at home. What they say about this, or what I hear as an ideological explanation, is that while the lifelong education of a child with many disabilities is for one person, elderly care is a whole family task, but those who say that, in my opinion, do not know what is real in Hungary in relation to elderly care, because it cannot be solved by an entire family. Families live in many places in Hungary at the same time, and people, especially those women who live in the generation of sandwiches, who have to care for older and younger members of the family at the same time, are excluded from the labour market and are poor because of such care tasks, and this is not responded by the type of ideological attitude that you vouch for. So just because someone doesn't care for a child doesn't mean that it's the same nursing work, and it has to be appreciated in the same way. Obviously, if we do not agree on this, I am also very pleased to hear the Secretary of State say that there is a government policy in this diversity and the basis for this government policy. In the area of child protection, it is also important to add that the underpaidness of child protection workers is also dramatic compared to their responsibility. These people, and I really, really respect that job, have to make incredibly difficult decisions in their work, which is not justified by a HUF 220,000 net salary. Here they decide on human fates, often in cases where they have to decide between worse and worse versions, say, a family highlight for children, and in addition to correctly increasing the salaries and financial support of those in foster care networks, the salaries of those in the child protection system should also be increased, as this work is based on whether there is any level of child protection in Hungary. My fellow Member Harrach said that our side is in favour of the basic income, and that he has a philosophical debate, because judging income or wages on the basis of work would be the right thing to do, and the conservative idea of basically getting money for the person who works for it. Social workers have worked for this money. So you don't demand charity here, you don't demand charity, you say that there are employees in the Hungarian state who aren't properly paid. Those therefore, for example, who are now working hard during the coronal virus epidemic, often carry out work in an epidemic risk that sometimes makes them unable to see their children, have to go to voluntary quarantine, are extremely few, and these people still cannot justify why they did not grant a one-time payment of HUF 500,000. And what is most absurd and, again, if Mr Secretary of State could respond to this, although I know that this is not such a question-and-answered parliamentary genre, is why they have left out of free travel, and it is indeed a completely inexplicable government policy when healthcare workers are rightly given this right now in the epidemic situation. So talking about the social sector without talking about the people who run the social sector, and these social workers, it's absurd. And the fact that every year there is a press conference where they say that it is a sectoral wage increase, which actually means an increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, no one is fooled, because social workers know exactly how much that means, they know exactly that an 8 percent increase is not a real wage increase in this sector. With regard to home care and care fees, I also think it is important that it is not only possible to change the amount of the fee itself. How much help a home care provider can get from support services or in other ways, I think it would be very good, and it would be very important to make the system a little more flexible for a few hours so that those who are doing home care activities, going away, tearing up, handling cases, doing a thousand things they cannot do if they have to do 0-24 hours of care, and there is no state aid in this. The establishment of such a 0-24 hour support service compared to the current 8 hours, if the current support group remains, so if we do not expand the number, it is HUF 24 billion. I will not begin to say in this speech for a long time how much they spend instead of 24 billion forints. The most interesting thing that this law reveals is the question of social services that operate without registration. The press news has just been released, Commissioner Secretary of State has also seen that a young couple of weeks of pensioners in a holiday home in Somogy County have been illegally supplied without any authorisation, in fact. There are more and more of them; according to the SZGYF itself, there are more and more such institutions. My question is, what do you think is a sign that this has grown so much lately? Is it not possible that this is a sign that there is such a social tragedy in the care of older people in Hungary today that families have to resort to such solutions? It is not possible that the waiting list, which the Ministry of Human Resources removed from the website in January and only issued for public interest data request, shows that while approximately 4.3 people waited for 10 seats in 2019, this became 5.3 by 2020, so it was one year. So that means that right now, you have to wait years for someone who wants to put their parents in a nursing home with dementia in most cases. We also know that the elderly care is no longer what was in the Kádár system. It's said by the head of the institution, I think that people used to play cards and garden there, and now it's basically basically almost chronic patient care, it's changed at that level. And there has been no reaction over the past ten years from the state institutional system that you have run. And what they sometimes say cynically is that it is the family's job to care for the elderly, and therefore it is not necessary to expand the system of public institutions, is also not responding to Hungary, most families cannot solve this, because two people have to work to make a living for the children, plus they do not live where, let's say, their mother, father and, moreover, institutional care is no longer an alternative, especially after moderate dementia. It's a coercion. You can't take care of someone at home with a serious dementia, so medically speaking. Overall, therefore, the fact that these non-registered social services have thus appeared is a sign that the seats have not been sufficiently expanded. Of course, it is a very good thing that church institutions and the church are present as a maintenance presence in the social sector, but they do not have the money to renovate the institutions and then give them monument-protected castles, where they then have to disrupt the extermination programs, I know that you do not necessarily have contact with the churches, but if you continue to do so, I think they will speak on this subject sooner or later. Overall, the provision of professional and public services to people with disabilities, this tendering system, which is included in the law, is a very forward-looking thing, and we are very pleased about this, and the extension of support for home creation in this way is also a very positive thing, which we also support. For the part on violence against children in the law, I hope that there may be some cooperation here in this House, that the rejection of protective care is currently not duly sanctioned in the law. If there were any progress to be made in this, I think it would be important. That's what the defense agency itself said, it's a problem. I also have to say here, as a matter of fact, that the pay of the women in charge is not enough, to put it mildly. I think that sanctioning like this could often help you to do your job in a more undisturbed manner. There has been a lot of negative experience and abuse in this, which I am sure you have heard from the secretaries. All in all, this is a positive law, which the LMP will support, but we think it could be a lot more, and we very much hope that there will be a lot more. I look forward to Mr. Secretary's reaction. Thank you very much. [[11.50]]
u2020-11-20-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, then the Members who have signed up for a proper speech at the press of the button are: from the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start by thanking social workers for their support in the epidemic. I would like to correct my socialist fellow Member in so much that they are not doing inhuman work, but are doing a humane and superhuman, heroic work. We have to thank you for this every time, because, as before the epidemic period, and after that, I think that the workers of social institutions will stand up and fight heroically for the people entrusted to them, for the institutions, for the people in the institutions. So we're going to thank them from here in Parliament. We are discussing a very important bill now, and I am pleased that there is a consensus on these issues across Parliament's sides, across horseshoes. I would also like to thank you for the correct comments on the opposition part. I think it is our joint task to act together to protect the most deprived and vulnerable in these areas. I would like to say to Congressman Ungar that, of course, this is not the end of it, that there is more to be done, as has been the case in recent years, that we have discussed a number of forward-looking legislative proposals that you consider to be forward-looking on social and child protection issues, so this is an important stage of the current bill, and I am quite certain that this is not the last such station. The aim is constantly to improve this service. After all, the most important place in our world view is the work in front of the social safety net, and those who in some way need the help of the state, the community, society, should be given the most effective, humane assistance that is best suited to their needs. I would also like to add about the churches, Mr President, that to the churches, the transfer or reception of social institutions, from which we look, is not done by writing it out on the door of the institution, that it is now a church institution, but is done on the basis of the needs of the churches and on the basis of a trial. It is the consent and intention of both parties, not a one-sided handover, in a government decision or a government decree or even in a law, but long-term negotiations prevent these transfers. I think that social activity is well suited to the church's responsibilities. I have been to many social institutions maintained by the Church before the visitation ban, and I think that these institutions are outstanding on a high level. In addition to humane care, the spiritual plus they can offer in a church institution, I think it is very important for those who receive it. So I'm basically in favour of taking over the Churches' social institutions, but in any case, it's up to two parties, the current maintainer and the new maintainer. That's how it works. Congresswoman Bango and I have already argued here about adoption. He also stated that the main goal was to allow children to live in a family. In this intention, we are strengthened by the current law, as he said, that this is the goal, and we want to represent this direction. Of course, it is not true that singles cannot adopt, this possibility is still open, which can only be followed by professionals, after the Sztensz study, subject to ministerial approval, but on the basis of experts' opinions, after general medical fitness, environmental studies and the opinions of social and child protection professionals. In the bill, too, Mr State Secretary, my fellow Member Harrach and my fellow Member Tapolczai, and they all talked a lot about the details, and I would like to highlight two things. On the one hand, I think it is extremely important to change the use of home-building support, this part, as it is a priority for young adults who have spent at least three years in institutional care who have no family background or wealth. I think we can all agree that there is a need to open this opportunity to create a home to this social group in this way, and thus include assisted housing as one of the goals of using home support. I have also heard more about the creation of legal bases for disability counselling by speakers and secretary of state before me. Data processing is extremely important and I think it is a long-awaited amendment in the case of street social work. Several have called for this facilitation to be implemented in recent years and for this amendment to be brought into line with the different EU data protection rules. Overall, I am pleased that there is more unity than usual in social and child protection aspects and in this area. The irony of fate is that when Gergely Arató praised the government presentation for the first time today and perhaps for the last time, the microphone had just fallen, but this is only such a stylish or humorous scene about today, but I am really glad that in such matters, in order to protect children and help the fallen, a unit beyond the two-thirds of the governing party can be achieved in support of it. So I also ask the Secretary of State to make equally good, positive proposals in the future, and we thank the social workers for their support. As Mr Péter Harrach said, KDNP will support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, for a two-minute speech, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only respond to one half sentence. Inhumane work is about working in such difficult conditions as those working in the social sector and being very, very underpaid. That's what you can call inhumane, fellow Member. I think if either of us did this job, we might run home crying after the first two days. So, I think that material recognition and recognition of how much respect and respect should be given to them, that even under these circumstances they work every day and take on this kind of salary, I think that it deserves all the respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Péter Harrach also asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-65	Allow me one thought, Mr. President. My colleague Ungár made a comment on ideological issues. If we try to live with the best means of thinking, the exact destination, then there are three kinds of speeches here. We have suffered through the previous item, listening to the slogans of the campaign gurus. The other specific speech appeared at this very point on the agenda, and I hope you also believe that almost 90 percent of the speakers' speeches were on professional issues and on concrete amendments that could be mentioned in such a general debate. But the fact of the general debate is that it is the spirit of the law itself that needs to be discussed. In the in-depth debate, we will take out the little things that are included in the amendment, but if we do not mention it, I would not mention ideology, rather on world-view issues that appear in a law that concerns a social problem, then we will have an empty comment. So let me tell you that I have listened with great respect and appreciation to your professional contribution and government criticism, which, however, has led to a kind of idealism, whether you say it or not. So there is room for ideal questions in the general debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter Ungár applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes. [[12.00]]
u2020-11-20-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for the tone of the debate, especially on the part of the opposition, of course, that we have been able to talk about this law in this area, and thank you in advance for all those who have given their support to this law. There have been a few questions that I would like to answer, to answer, to see if we can get closer, or to see if this way... I see that Congressman Arató said that they are still hesitating on the support of the law, but perhaps this will bring us closer to this. The consultation, which first came up on behalf of Mr Róbert Dudás, and I think this is important for the whole area, so there is no way to bypass the conciliation in this area in the first place. Yes, this law was in agreement with church maintainers, civilian maintainers, municipal maintainers, local governments, county municipalities, County City Association, because there is simply no other solution in this area. Social care and child protection are types where municipalities, civilians, churches and states are jointly present. Now let me just give you a current example. Today we have started testing in social institutions, and we are talking about 1,600 institutions, as in the distribution of protective equipment, there has been full cooperation between the state maintainer and the maintainer in other counties, so testing is still working, so they can help each other. And I think that this whole area is going to work. And the government can't even bring a proposal in here without this type of negotiation happening before it does. The availability of IT tools, which was also asked by Mr Dudás: it is about completing the system in order to protect our children, so the system was already covered by the legislation on professional care for this year. What we have brought is that from now on it will be available in primary care and in child welfare centers. However, children's welfare centres still have a type of electronic reporting obligation, such as the publication of daily operational data in the KENYSZI system, for which they should have this type of asset park. In the last two years, we have specifically drawn attention to the fact that if there is an amount available for this task, it should preferably be spent on asset development, so I think it will be okay. If you don't, we'll definitely help you with that. The next thing I wrote was the issue of disability counseling, and if I understand correctly, the question of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was why we should only start in 22th. This has already been answered in advance by Mr Tapolczai in his speech. We did not start this at the time, we have already started this, but there is currently an ongoing so-called Montázs project, which is a joint financing of an EU and Hungarian budget, where this kind of advice is taking place today. We put it in from 1 January 22, because then this project will cease; we will still cover the financing of this in 21, but we want to solve it as of 22nd, and if the leg of law is there, of course, it will also be guaranteed in the 22nd budget. This means that 40-42 consultants help this area, which I think is really important, because our fellow countrymen who live with disabilities are sure to help them there by strengthening basic care. And about adoption: I don't want to talk about anything that's not the subject of this law, because then it would be a very long one, and Mr. President would just call it off, but allow me one sentence. The thing about adoption is, if you look at last year's data, it was 1052 adoptions, it was 71. In previous years, there has always been about 5-6-7 percent, which is unique. And when it comes to who, and how quickly, can adopt me, I would ask everyone for one thing: that the idea of adoption is to have the rights of the child so that he can grow up, if not in his biological family, in another family; and not that an adoptive person has the right to receive the child. And here, it's important to know who can adopt who. There's 1,800 kids waiting for adoption, half of them over the age of ten. One percent of those who want to adopt are willing to adopt children over ten years of age. It's good to treat these as one because then we can talk about the same thing. With regard to the data protection issue: yes, there has been a consultation with NAIH, because it may have been raised by two, so there has been a consultation with NAIH, who found this draft in order, but I think it is important to stress once again that, if this was not quite clear in the first speech here, it is obvious that data processing can only happen for as long as the institution has a legal relationship. As soon as it ceases, the entitlement will, of course, cease. But I'll tell you again, the NAIH were in agreement, and they didn't object to it. Eliminate non-registered social services. Here, Congressman Ungár has a little more vision than he has, there is no mass of it. So there are two or three cases a year, but it is important to do so, and thank you very much if we can support this in a uniform way, because now the obligation to provide services in the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection is on state maintenance in the event that there is an unregistered service provider and the service is terminated. It's just that we often have the problem that when we need to take over this service, it simply doesn't just work without registration, but they won't let us in, say, the state maintainer. That is why we wanted to have the authority to really take action in this situation, but I would like to emphasise once again that this has been two or three cases a year in recent years, so it does not occur in bulk. Now, on issues such as the care fee, mentioned by Congressman Harrach, and also by Congressman Tapolczai: I do not want to go into such a number war, and I think that if there is, somewhere, there are situations in life that are always very difficult to express with money, and it is impossible, let us not try to do that. I think it's much more complicated and difficult. But it has been said here how much has increased in recent years and in recent years, let us say, the amount that we have spent for this purpose: we have quadrupled it. And I am sure that we believe, both humanly and emotionally, that the increase in these fees is justified and that we should do so as soon as possible. All I would like to ask in conclusion is that you allow the government to do something step by step. We have brought in an amendment to the social law that has steps to be taken. I understand that you want more, but last year we brought in a social law amendment, and we were able to raise some things in part, and we will also bring in such an amendment next year. So I ask for the kind of step-by-step assistance to support and help this government, so that when we bring it in next time and we can support and help the next elements, we can do another good in this area. That's the kind of work you need to understand and help. In this debate, I would like to thank everyone separately for their contributions and subsidies. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-68	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and on the amendment of certain laws will now follow. General debate on the proposal for an amendment to the Economic Protection Action Plan to increase employment until closure. Government referral T/13662. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2020-11-20-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Life and job protection are the most important tasks of this year's epidemic. In the employment of disabled people in social institutions and in the area, the two weave our daily lives. Social workers survive in life protection, and jobs with reduced working skills continue to grow despite the epidemic, i.e. not only protecting jobs, but also expanding them. For example, the State Handicraft has created nearly 1,800 new jobs in this form of employment since the outbreak began. We will strengthen the jobs, which is why we launched this year at the beginning of the year the "value" programme. But not only do we keep it in the plague, but we also create new ones, because work is a chance, hope, and opportunity. This is especially true in the lives of people with disabilities. Instead of being sorry, we're building on equal opportunities, so we're not creating benefits, we're creating opportunities. This strategy has been in place since 2010: instead of aid, a work-based economy is being built in our country. The most important objective of the government's economic defence action plan is to protect jobs and create new ones. We would also like to strengthen the responsibility of the market and the public sector in the social field, bringing in outstanding international authorities in this area, showing that our fellow countrymen with changed working skills are creating value. Dear House, We want to continue and expand the path we have been on since 2010. Today, there are some 360,000 people of active age with changed working skills in Hungary. The measures taken in recent years together contributed to an employment rate of 44% over ten years compared to the 18 percent level in this target group. So this means that nearly 155 thousand people who have changed their ability to work are currently doing work. Dear House, When the government transformed the support system for people with disabilities in 2011, it established that anyone who wanted to work could, therefore, break down the training in their heads that the changed ability meant that they could not produce value. But the job isn't done here. Our aim is to be not only morally and economically good at employing people with disabilities, but also the best in the region. At the beginning of this year, when we launched the.V.A. program, we channeled the experiences of international companies and domestic companies into the program. They claim that in a workplace, employers are more satisfied with their employees with disabilities than with their other employees, because they are more motivated and more committed. This is probably the reason why more and more people decide to pay less taxes and employ more people with disabilities. For example, in order to support it by number, an average of 8500 employers do not have to pay social contributions today, while helping to employ 44.5 thousand workers. Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to make this type of work more effective, successful and stronger. It affects the functioning of the care system, cash benefits, procedures, occupational rehabilitation services. Together, the amendments and proposals serve to enable those who are able to do work to get all the help they can. The amendment of certain rules on disability and rehabilitation care helps employment, while the other part helps to simplify procedures and reduce the administrative burden on clients and determining authorities. Dear House, The two main objectives of the amendment are the following. First of all, the removal of the income limit related to disability and rehabilitation benefits. According to the current legislation, in addition to the payment of cash benefits, employment can be carried out, but if the income from it is higher than one and a half times the minimum wage for a period of three months, the benefit will be terminated. With the adoption of the bill, this action restriction will be lifted in the future. This can help to further employ people with disabilities, reduce the administrative burden on customers and employers, reduce administrative tasks and create a clearer and more transparent situation by simplifying the rules of action. The second priority objective of the amendment is to amend the regulation of the rehabilitation contribution. Under the current rules, if an employer employs more than 25 people, and the number of people with disabilities exceeds 5 per cent of the number of workers, they are exempted from payment of the rehabilitation contribution. One of the most important economic objectives is to increase the number of companies that employ a disabled workforce. We therefore propose the following amendment: firstly, to encourage the use of young people with special educational needs in public education. As companies are increasingly interested in using MMKs, they have an increased responsibility to help young people with special needs at the beginning of their adult lives after they have completed their studies. Therefore, by aligning them, the proposal extends the mandatory employment level of 5%. Thus, according to the proposal, it is important that young people with special educational needs who are out of public education and who have a disability in higher education start their careers not as unemployed, but as an opportunity for useful, meaningful life. This will help some 6,000 young people with disabilities and special needs. The second objective of this change is to strengthen the provision of mentoring assistance. Targeted personal support can make the employment and integration of people with disabilities stronger and more effective. And it should also be borne in mind that many people struggle with the uncertainty of lack of information against people with changed working abilities, since we are always afraid of what we do not know. Everyone will step back from the blind man standing on the crosswalk if he does not know what to do with the situation or is not sure how he can help. We get alarmed when we have a new co-worker in a wheelchair because we haven't worked with a wheelchair before, and we don't know how to handle the situation. In this regard, it is important to stress that the success of work is also supported by the ability of staff to be accepting and helpful in overcoming health barriers. In this process, occupational rehabilitation mentors have a key role to play. They are the ones who help the employer to integrate, work and retain employment in the workplace of workers with disabilities, start-ups. This bill now allows employers to take into account mentors employed for at least 4 hours when calculating the mandatory level of employment. So we are creating the possibility of strengthening the integration of the disabled worker with mentors and individual counselling at all workplaces. Dear House, A number of preferential benefits are also helping people to work and to work. More than HUF 43 billion will be spent this year to support the wage and additional costs of sheltered employment workers. With this option, 375 employers can provide employment for more than 30 thousand MMK persons. [[12.20]] The resources for the protected service will be increased year by year, and next year, in the 2021 budget, HUF 45.6 billion will be spent on this. In two years, the promotion of accredited employment has increased by HUF 10 billion. Employment of people with disabilities plays a major role in the implementation of economic policy aimed at increasing the performance of the Hungarian economy. We therefore support them with the proposed measure either in their position or in keeping their existing jobs, thereby strengthening our economy even more. For most people, work is the basis for living, a means of sustaining life, figuratively speaking, a web of the strongest yarn of social security. In the case of our fellow countrymen with changed skills, not only livelihoods, but basic self-esteem, social acceptance, the embodiment of a sense of belonging to a society, a nation, its pledge is the place where he gets a job and the employer who trusts him. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said above, I would like to ask you to support the proposals for amending the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gergely Tapolczai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-71	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Personally, I was looking forward to this bill, this amendment, because it is a solution to very important issues for us. Firstly, I would like to say that it mentions not only the economic protection action plan, but also the European Disability Strategy 2010-2020. Employment is one of the priority areas of this strategy. Thus, it is also a priority at European level that as many people with disabilities should work either through protected employment or in an integrated way. We all know that all persons with disabilities are persons with disabilities, but not all persons with disabilities are persons with disabilities. So this bill affects both areas in a certain way. Following this strategy, the national disability programme also sets out the national targets, which we mentioned several times in the previous debate. So we have the legislative framework, the tasks, the goals. We all know and know how long this area has come to help and support people with disabilities and to maintain the social network. After the change in the system, the situation of persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities who were entitled to social assistance was a huge burden on the state. That was a huge burden. The 2011 law tried to redirect this. In other words, the principle was to give as much as possible a job instead of aid and to give work to as many people as possible, so that anyone who is able and willing could work. As the Secretary of State said, their work creates value. In fact, in recent years, I have repeatedly said that the employment of people with disabilities and persons with disabilities is a long-term investment for all, at the level of the individual and at the level of the state. Let's look at the measures of the past few years. We have introduced a new type of care, disability and rehabilitation care, which is a highly work-oriented approach, so the demand for employment is strongly reflected here. We have also introduced various employment aids, such as wage support and job creation support. We have also introduced various measures to encourage employment, such as rehabilitation contributions, which obliges employers to pay a rehabilitation contribution, which is nine times the minimum wage, if they do not employ a disabled person under the conditions. This was more than HUF 100 billion in 2019. I'd be happier if it was less. This would mean that more people with changed job skills are on the labour market, but this fine amount can be used back to different forms of employment for people with changed job skills. The social contribution tax allowance is known as the next rehabilitation card. On average, 8.5 thousand employers applied this discount per month for 44.5 thousand people with disabilities, which is approximately HUF 11 billion per year. Protecting employment is also a very important task and rehabilitation goal. In 2020, there were 45.6 billion budget resources, 3700 accredited employers, and so many received this support, thus providing employment for approximately 30,000 people with disabilities. The per capita support framework was approximately HUF 1 billion per year in 2016, and in 2020 it was HUF 2.2 billion, so it increased by HUF 1 billion in six years, this year it will be HUF 45.6 billion and next year it will be HUF 46,6 billion. We also support various programmes from EU sources. From 2016 more than 18,000 people with disabilities were recruited, of which approximately 18,000 were placed in the labour market through EU support of HUF 16 billion. This is not the full list, of course. We now have this amendment proposal before us. As I have said, I personally have been looking forward to this, and I very much welcome the proposed amendment that there should be no limitation on the payment of rehabilitation and invalidity benefits. [[12.30]] When we introduced this form of supply, it was understandable that this commitment, this restriction, was made. Based on the experience of recent years, in 857 cases in 2019, three whole percentage of all termination cases were terminated because the income exceeded the income limit. Leaving this income limit with an average benefit of HUF 55 000 meant an additional expenditure of HUF 565 million per year. The removal of this limit can greatly contribute to the employment of people with disabilities and reduce administrative burdens on both the customer and the employer. I would also like to thank you very much for listening to the voice of interest protection organisations and, in view of their lobbying activities, the proposals I have put forward have been included in this amendment proposal. Another positive step is that care funding can be accompanied by childcare premiums and csed. The legislation was not clear from this point of view. As of 1 January 2015, the combined provision of rehabilitation and invalidity benefits and childcare premiums is no longer an obstacle. However, it was a problem to pay the baby care fee, because the legislation did not prohibit it, but if health insurance had established the baby care fee, the disability benefit had to be abolished. This anomaly is resolved by this amendment, and after the adoption of the proposal, the person entitled to receive the lawn, the family and the various supply fees. I am particularly pleased about this because there was a time when complaints from mothers with different disabilities came to me one after another, that there is a completely different case law and the application of legislation, so I am very pleased that this is also resolved by the amendment. I believe that it is justified and I support the technical clarification of the legislation that sickness and sickness benefits can, as appropriate, only be established if the insured person is considered unfit for work, so this clarification also improves the possibility of applying the legislation. This bill is therefore very important and very forward-looking, on behalf of the Fidesz faction, and I support it and further good work for the Secretary of State, who I know is committed to this matter and I wish him further strength and perseverance.
u2020-11-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I'd like to start by supporting him because he's forward-looking. There is much to be done, there is much more to be done in this area, but I think that this bill can be said to be forward-looking. The proposal was very detailed by the Secretary of State and by my fellow Member from Tapolcza in detail, making a professional contribution, he entered into the mysteries of the bill in detail. I would like to highlight this from a slightly different perspective, very briefly and only with a few points. First, I would like to start with what I did in the previous one, that I trust that the professional discussions have taken place. The Secretary of State said that these had happened on the previous item, as well as on the previous item. Allow me, with great respect, to interrupt the fact that several local governments and organisations are resident and involved, and the county authorities have no institutional capacity and right. He must have stabbed her by accident. It has been in the hands of government agencies since 2012. I dare say this beyond that because I was chairman of the Social and Health Committee of the Heves County General Assembly between 2010 and 12, which is why I consider this area to be a priority. Well, it should be noted, as my colleague from Tapolczai said, that from 2011 there was a regulation that gave a different interpretation of disability benefits, even disability pensions. We fully agree on the question of 800 thousand people who were in this system around 2011 in this rehabilitation system, which is an unrealistic number, but let us not forget that this was not their problem, it was not their system's circumventing activity, it was not their own fault that they came into this system. They changed this system, a lot of people fell out of it. By wanting to bring people back to the labour market, we fully agree, but at the same time, people who could not find employment in the labour market could lose their rightful stipend, thus being incompetent, and the situation is that they may not have been able to provide their families. So, in order to lead as many people back to the labour market as possible and not to build a society based on aid, but rather a work-based society, I think there is a consensus between us, but unfortunately, there are some forms of implementation that have unfortunately been hurt by many. Allow me to say that, on the part of the municipalities, it may not belong to your wallet, but since you are sitting here against me, let me say that, in the context of the public work programme, the municipalities are encouraged to involve people with FHTs through the labour centres of the district offices. This is completely understandable and acceptable. There is only one problem, but it is extremely big: that the mayors and municipalities have no insight into the labour centres database, this is forbidden, they cannot look at who belongs to the locality, who should be involved. I say with very, very good intentions that this should be changed, because I would also promote the fate of the FHTs, in order to facilitate the work of the municipalities, please deal with this matter. It has been spoken out of your mouth, and in your communication it is in many ways that you do not leave anyone without care, and that is, among other things, the purpose of this legislation. So allow me to point out that this is not necessarily the case in practice, but in theory it sounds very good, not in practice. Think of it as an invitation to remain in the public employment I mentioned earlier, a public worker who the doctor does not consider fit for health care. [[12.40]] So the municipality can't hire him, and he can't even work as a volunteer because he doesn't have a medical fitness check, so he won't have the 30 worked or certified employment contracts that year, so he's gonna lose even the FHT. I don't know if this has been considered in this way at the wallet, but please see if there are such pitfalls, such loopholes. That's all I wanted to say in short. Thank you very much for the amendments. And as you mentioned in the previous agenda that last year there were amendments to the legislation concerning the social sector, there are also this year, and it may be possible that in the closing words you will say that legislative amendments will be introduced again next year on this subject. I'm asking you to bring me more, if possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We, Christian Democrats, are committed to improving the situation, quality of life and opportunities in the labour market of our fellow countrymen who have changed their ability to work. We are convinced that our disabled countrymen are as valuable and important to society as healthy and healthy people. The Fidesz-KDNP government has already done a lot to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities, in order to promote their daily well-being. For example, during this spring session, the Parliament discussed and accepted the amendment of the Hungarian Sign Language Act, which represents a positive change and a great help in the lives of deaf and hearing workers with changed working abilities. Similarly, it is positive that it has become common now that public transport means, playgrounds and public institutions are designed in a barrier-free manner, with a view to equal opportunities. In order to ensure that people with disabilities are not excluded from society, there is a great need for their acceptance and support from the majority society. In this process of acceptance and integration and reintegration, it is important for people with changed working skills to be able to work compared to their opportunities and abilities, and for those who can take part in the world of work as many of them as possible, so that those who can and want to do so should be able to roll away administrative and other obstacles so that everyone can work. About 44 percent of the 360,000 persons living in Hungary who have changed working capacity are employed, which is a significant increase compared to 18% in 2011. Thus, under national Christian Democratic governance, employment of persons with disabilities has more than doubled, but there are still some people who do not work, but want or know. It is a special pleasure that the state-owned MANAGING company has been able to expand the range of employees who have changed their working skills during the epidemic, and it has been able to expand by almost 2,000 the state's largest disabled employer, who are doing valuable work for society. I think it is a particular point to highlight and it is a pleasure that this expansion has been able to take place in the middle of an economic crisis and an epidemic. The main objective is to increase the level of employment of people with disabilities, so that all those who want to do work that suits their skills and health. The bill before us is also intended to encourage the employment of people with disabilities. The bill expands the range of workers entitled to the exemption from the payment of the rehabilitation contribution in order to ensure that companies employ more workers with disabilities. In addition, young people with special educational needs should be taken into account for the payment of the rehabilitation contribution until the age of 23. It also includes a mentor employed at least four hours a day, who is a great help in the successful work of a disabled person and in maintaining him in the labour market. In addition to the payment of invalidity and rehabilitation benefits, employment may be carried out, but the income thus earned may not exceed one and a half times the minimum wage for a period of three months. The bill also includes the abolition of this limitation. The bill before us is another step towards achieving the government's objectives of working according to its capabilities and capabilities, and the world of work is even more open to our fellow countrymen with changed working skills, because we believe that the most important social safety net in front of the social safety net is the work itself and that the KDNP Group supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-77	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to point out that we will support the motion tabled by the Government, but I note that we find it rather small, although it is now almost eight to nine years since the transformation of this system. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, at the time, the Constitution itself had not yet been amended by the Fundamental Law, and then, with the reform of the pension system, a lot of forms of social security funding were virtually removed. Of course, I myself admit that, among other things, it is the pension system that must always be touched, but it must always be done with care, because the system itself is in constant motion. I would like to refer to the fact that, although it does not fall within the scope of the motion submitted, it was this week, more precisely, two years ago last week, that the Constitutional Court had taken a position on the question that many, perhaps tens of thousands, had fallen out of the system after the reform of the system, or that the level of support had changed. The Constitutional Court also pointed out that there was no improvement in a significant part of the parties concerned that would have justified the reduction or possibly the loss of supply. As I mentioned, the decision of the Constitutional Court of November 2018 would have been a remedy for those concerned, but the government did not take advantage of this possibility. I will, of course, quote this because I think it is more a duty than an opportunity for the government. I am opening a parenthesis: the Constitutional Court gave the government until 31 March of last year a deadline to establish the necessary legislation. This time has passed for more than a year and a half, and so far there is no Member of Parliament who has met with this government intention in the form of a proposal. We've had this topic several times. One of the parliamentary opposition groups talks about this issue almost every month either in the context of an interpellation or in the context of a speech before the agenda or in the hour of immediate questioning, and we get different answers, but also in the context of our written questions. There are times when it is said that they are actively working on the drafting of the legislation, sometimes they say that they are in consultation with interest and professional organisations. The point is, these cases did not get in front of Parliament. Dear House, According to the proposal submitted, it is important to encourage employment. We agree with that, there is no disagreement between the parties to the government and the opposition. Indeed, I myself agree that anyone who is able and able to work should work as far as possible, whether in the open labour market they have changed their ability to work or in a protected environment. According to the proposal submitted, as I mentioned, it is important to have this job, to whom this option is available. In connection with the former, I note that, for some benefits, Mr Dudás has already referred to this as a parallel payment, but we do not understand why the government makes a distinction between, for example, receiving children or children, because the former cannot receive both invalidity or rehabilitation benefits and the latter can. We could ask why there is such a distinction. An important change, but there is no question that only in the case of certain benefits, csed, ged and adoption fees, they allow parallel payments with invalid benefits. [[12.50]] To this end, it is worth mentioning that the Law on Disabilities refers precisely to the concept of regular provision of money under the Social Act. There, however, if we look at what these forms of supply are, we can see the following, and let me read it instead, because I do not want anything to be left out of it. Therefore, this is Article 4 of the Social Law. Paragraph (1) of the first subparagraph of the second subparagraph of the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of the second subparagraph of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 of the first subparagraph of the first subparagraph of this Article states that:, regular provision of money: sickness allowance, baby care fee, adoptive fee, childcare fee, old age pension, pre-age pension, pre-retirement benefit, service allowance, annuity allowance for dance art, temporary mining allowance, benefits for persons with disabilities, old-age allowance, incapacity allowance, widow's allowance, increased old-age, incapacity and widow's allowance, widow's pension is excluded, except for temporary widow's pension, and widow's pension, and widow's pension for disabled or permanently disabled or at least two orphans entitled to care under the spouse's rights. In addition, it is also a cash benefit for miners' health benefits, disability benefits, cash benefits for war-care workers and national caregivers, childcare allowance, childcare allowance, child-rearing allowance, retirement allowance, support for the elderly, health and child-care allowance, care allowance for children, care fee, support for long-term care workers in the elderly, allowance for national placements, public service allowance and other similar types of care provided by a foreign body under EU regulations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So that's all that's involved, but the government's submission to Parliament is quite limited. Therefore, the question remains as to why it is not granted to other recipients of benefits, why only in the case of so-called sickness benefits, which are subject to prior periods of insurance, as in the case of persons with disabilities, is possible to make a parallel claim. Who, in the old word, is alive, and I'm putting it in quotes, because that's how people understand it, and it's demoted, and it's right, why can't they get both benefits? Why is his situation different from that of the parent in the child? Presumably, I think it's even worse for him, I mean, for someone who's right than for someone who's young. Consequently, my question remains the same: why the status of parents is distinguished in this case as well. Or who receives a care fee for the care of her child or parent, but she herself is leokkan, why can't she get both benefits? I stress that while he is caring and he himself is leokkan, I think that he could be paid both benefits in parallel. I'm not going to go into any more detail. You obviously understand what we're talking about. For all that I have said in the previous two, we have tabled an amendment, and we hope that next week, as it is a government referral, the committee responsible for Parliament will also discuss it. I would like to ask my fellow government Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention and patience. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-79	Mr President, Dear House, In my previous comment, I basically said our position on what serious social policy problems the government would normally have to deal with during an epidemic. But, of course, we are always happy to see progress in some areas, even if this is a small step forward. We will therefore be able to support this proposal in all likelihood. At the same time, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the amendment and the facts mentioned by Commission President Korózs. I ask you to take these into account, and we support them. I think that if we give, we should not give it half-heartedly, and not just to a narrow circle, but to a circle in a similar situation, so that it can have access to these benefits. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether they wish to speak for two minutes or for a proper speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Attila Philip: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to thank you very briefly for the support of all Members and factions who have given their support on the agenda and on the bill. On what has been said by Mr Dudás, I would like to point out that, of course, we are still in the same position as we have in the past, when we have taken a lot of positive steps in terms of employment with disabilities. We are sure that, in their case, the kind of self-esteem that is most important can be obtained primarily through work. This, wherever I am in the country, I see it, I see it, I see it, so we will certainly confirm this in the following. Thank you very much for supporting this law.
u2020-11-20-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals for amendments, as already mentioned in the previous agenda items, were open until 16:00 yesterday. We are now taking a two-minute technical break before we can continue the debate. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue the debate. A general debate on the provisions relating to the successful organisation and organisation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme will follow in the context of the title of Europe's Capital of Culture 2023 until closure. Government referral T/13668. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The European cultural city was launched in 1985 by the Council of the European Union on the proposal of the Greek Minister for Culture Melína Merkeri, known as the actress, and the programme was named the European Capital of Culture in 1999. This title was first worn by the city of Cork in Ireland. It is interesting that in the first period nearly thirty cities were given the title of the cultural city of Europe, mostly large metropolitan cities, well-known big places, and then when the title of the European Capital of Culture started, from then on two sites a year, and after a while they also sought to give this title to the settlements not only in Western Europe, but also in this part of Europe, in Central and Eastern Europe. In the first period, there are about 30 settlements, now thirty settlements in the past. [[13.00]] It is perhaps interesting to point out that in this region, where we live, Rijeka could have received this title in Sibiu, Vilnius, Linz, Pécs, Maribor, Košice, Riga, Plzeň, Wrocław, Plovdiv, and obviously in a slightly unfortunate situation and difficult situation this year, and which is a special pleasure for us Hungarians that in 2021 Timisoara and Novi Sad will be the cultural capital of Europe, raising and presenting the region in which we have lived for a thousand years. But the award of the European Capital of Culture has provided a special opportunity over the years to renew cities, develop their creativity and improve their image. Cities shall be selected by an independent expert body on the basis of a cultural programme which must have strong European ties; all age groups of locally living people must be involved and contribute to the long-term development of that city. After Pécs in Hungary, Veszprém was honoured, I would also like to congratulate Péter Ovádi, the mayor of the city, and, of course, Tibor Navracsics, and of course, the Veszprém people, everyone who represent the city either in the governing party or in opposition. We really need this thing to help this effort together. In 2023, Veszprém will be the cultural capital of Europe. We can demonstrate the many, many values that this region represents. And although the winner is the city of Veszprém, the program also covers a much wider area of the Bakony and Lake Balaton regions, including the nature conservation and Natura 2000 sites, the UNESCO Geopark Bakony-Balaton and the Balaton Highland cultural landscape on the UNESCO World Heritage List. The aim of the programme series is to create a valuable and sustainable cultural space in the region, which can take a worthy place on the European and international map of culture. The programme aims to create the participation of young people in high-quality cultural training in the region, as well as to extend the current tourism offer with quality and sustainable tourism products. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] Allow me to mention and highlight some of the developments under the programme. In Veszprém, the cultural quarter will emerge, including the complex reconstruction of the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém; for the project, the city won a total of HUF 9 billion in the programme "Modern Cities" in Veszprém. The downtown rehabilitation program includes the renewal of the Csermák Music School, also with the support of the. Modern Cities, the revitalization of the entire green surface system, including the former Episcopal Garden, for which HUF 3 billion of EU funds are available. These funds are complemented by the state aid granted in connection with the year 2023 by the European Capital of Culture, which also provides the internal renewal of the Eötvös Károly County Library, located in the immediate vicinity of the quarter, together with the renovation of the Laczkó Dezső Museum. The cultural quarter is part of the program to transform and re-use the former cultural centre into rehearsal rooms, as well as to solve transport and parking problems in the downtown institutional environment. In the historic environment of the castle, buildings that are not used can also be renewed, endowed with new cultural content. In connection with the programme year, the Veszprém County will also have the opportunity to create a Happy Gizella Collection of Church Arts, to create restoration workshops and offices, and to create thematic exhibition halls and a Palace History Experience Centre. Since the Veszprém region was an emblematic meeting place between East and West even when the two blocks of Europe were otherwise unattainable, the programme's main objective is to involve European artists and young people, to establish a dialogue between actors, settlements and cities in different countries in order to strengthen international cooperation. The cultural programmes fit in with the specific character of Veszprém and the region, and I am thinking of a strong musical and artistic life here, or even the advantages of the Balaton region, not forgetting, of course, the strong ecclesiastical presence of the region. In addition, and not least, the application material was an integral part of the presentation of environmental sustainability and its protection objectives. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary, recognizing the great importance of this endeavour, appointed in 2019 the government commissioner responsible for coordinating the implementation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 Veszprém, the winning tender programme of Tibor Navracsics, as former Minister and Commissioner of the European Union, whose local knowledge and preparedness were beyond doubt, and decided in 2019 and 2020 that it was necessary to ensure the cost of preparation, so the government took the steps in this respect as well. Working with the Veszprém Fidesz-KDNP city management, the organisation of the programme series has already started, with the involvement of local civil society, negotiations and discussions have been launched to ensure timely and adequate investment in planned infrastructure, tourism and cultural services. 1468/2020 on measures relating to the title of the European Capital of Culture 2023. Government Resolution No.2 called on the Prime Minister's Office to prepare the legislative amendments necessary for the scheduled and effective preparation and implementation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme series. In accordance with this task, the bill before you has also been drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The bill establishes the conditions and framework for carrying out the investments related to the programme series, which will continue to take place until 2023. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the successful running of the programme can only be guaranteed if it can be prepared under the specific legal conditions provided for by the bill. The bill sets out the necessary investments for the organisation of related cultural events for which the local government of Veszprém County City and the majority-owned Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Private Company and the Veszprém Diocese for the renovation and development of the monument complexes located in the Veszprém Castle are owned by the builder and the performer. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Capital of Culture programme, implemented in Pécs in 2010, has contained many positive elements that still have an impact, the benefits of which the Pécs can still experience. But the shortcomings in the preparation and the challenges resulting from the success of the programme have shown that timely implementation of the investment and development linked to the programme series is essential. With regard to Veszprém, we must avoid these mistakes and create conditions to help the city carry out a series of programmes worthy of the title of the European Capital of Culture. [[13.10]] For this purpose, the bill allows the evaluation of tenders in the procurement procedures related to the programme series to be limited to the lowest remuneration, which can significantly accelerate the development of facilities. The same is supported by the transfer of state-owned property currently involved in the implementation of the programme series into municipal property, which is simultaneously transferred to the Veszprém Diocese in order to facilitate cultural and religious tasks. It also serves the timely completion of investments, recognising the importance of the programme, that the bill sets out the particular nature of the implementation of the programme series in the public interest. The management of the related investments will be managed by the government commissioner responsible for coordinating the implementation of the European Capital of Culture 2023. Veszprém. In order to confirm this, the bill gives the government commissioner general information rights and gives him the right to propose specific measures in order to ensure the proper exercise of the right of coordination. Dear Parliament, One of the most important products of the European Union's cultural policy has never been as timely as it is now, since the initiative aims to enable Europeans to learn more about each other's culture, to admire the memories of our common history, to experience the richness of European values and to experience the sense of European cohesion. I may not have to explain to you for a long time the need to strengthen European Christian culture and identity in the current situation of Europe and the world. Ladies and gentlemen, The success of the series of programmes to be organised in connection with the title of the European Capital of Culture 2023 is a national interest, and I sincerely hope that we all agree on this. If the programme series is implemented at the desired and planned level and time, then the county seat with more than 55 thousand inhabitants, Veszprém and the region concerned can become one of the most colourful cultural services in the country, which is certainly suitable for modern European standards. Of course, it is also a priority for the government this time that the investments, developments and cultural events carried out are also important for creating jobs and preparing Hungarian products as much as possible. I ask all the groups of Parliament to support this bill, which, once again, serves Veszprém, the Balaton region, the region of Bakony, with the adoption of the bill, aside from party political considerations. Thank you very much for the work of all those who have done a great deal for this, and thank you for the efforts of those who will do much for joint success in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I often say how good it is to be a Veszprém. This is no different now, and it will not be different in 2023, because the city of Veszprém was honoured to become the second cultural capital of Europe in Hungary. I can't really put into words what this medal means to us, and maybe I'm not exaggerating when I say that an old dream will come true for the Veszprémians. At the time of the first tender, in 2007, we dreamed of this fantastic opportunity together. However, it is important to point out that the only way that we could achieve such a good success was not only by dreaming about it but also by doing so. In the fulfillment of this dream, Gyula Porga, the first man in the city of Veszprém, had an inexorable merit, because he was the one who believed in the success of the project from the beginning, and Tibor Navracsics, who, as government commissioner, was responsible for the success of the implementation and, of course, the entire community of Veszprém and its region. Ladies and gentlemen, Although it is a recognition on a European scale, it is unknown to many what the title is. The cultural city of Europe was launched in 1985, and in 1999 it was renamed the European Capital of Culture, in which a selected city could show its own culture and artistic diversity to European communities. Despite the fact that the European Union has provided only symbolic support for the implementation of the programme, Member States have been very interested in the possibility from the outset. In 2017, at the request of the Ministry of Human Resources, seven cities submitted their applications: Debrecen, Eger, Gödöllő, Győr, Székesfehérvár, Szombathely and Veszprém. Only a European panel of 12 experts took into account the European dimension of the programme, its connectivity function and its development concept for the period beyond the reference year. As you already know, the jury brought Veszprém out of the competition as a winner, which decided to become Europe's cultural capital in 2023. The Veszprém competition is particularly strong, that the city did not acquire the title alone, but together with the Bakony-Balaton region, thus creating bridges, creating new connections with the help of culture. Thanks to this part of the project, settlements can get to know each other and work for a joint success, which often did not really consider each other to be relevant players in the cultural life of the area. It should be remembered that Veszprém is not only the defining centre of the Bakony region, but also the largest town in Balaton. As part of the program, we would like to reposition Veszprém and put it on the continuously developing tourist map that has been drawn on the shore of Lake Balaton in recent years. During the development, we are looking for self-sustaining, value-creating solutions from which the whole region and our country can benefit. However, this requires cooperation and value-based, value-creating thinking. ANNEX II Pope John Paul once said that the nation can only hope for a better future if its citizens are able to take responsibility for the common good through a joint effort. The development of our country, I think, is in the common interest of all of us. Dear House, Our objective is to put Veszprém and its surroundings on the map of Europe's cultural and creative industries. This means further support for high added value sectors and artistic enterprises. We have always believed and believe that culture, values rooted in folk traditions and Hungarian creative companies can show the world in a worthy way who we are, Hungarians. However, with all existing knowledge, natural and cultural talent, it is not easy to deal with these times either. In the same summer we were lucky enough to discover Hungary's treasures together, the loss of foreign traffic and the second wave of the virus unfortunately does not spare tourism and hospitality. The emergence of a pandemic is a major challenge for all regions, which have invested in tourism, culture and creative sectors in recent years, all of which are based on meeting and personal presence. The pandemic did not spare the cultural capitals of Europe. This year, Trieste and Galway were forced to call off the series of programmes organized for years, and next year Timisoara, Novi Sad and Elfsina will have to postpone. The situation is not simpler for the Veszprém people either, as the programmes of the preparation years can begin almost immediately with the title "European Capital of Culture" in order to create a well-established organisational structure by 2023. However, as a result of the virus, almost all major preparation events had to be cancelled so far, and the planned budget was not as planned in 2020. [[13.20]] The situation has not only affected the organizers, but local restaurants, bars, programme offices, museums, theatres and concert venues, which are the backbone of the programme series, are also facing challenges that have not yet been experienced. Although the situation is gloomy, I am not worried, because the Hungarian ingenuity and the proper measures of the government are already showing the light at the end of the tunnel. However, even if we are not negative, our rationality has not yet been lost, so we are aware that, after the economic and social shock caused by the coronal virus, we must work much harder, offering 200 percent, to have a year of 2023 that we have dreamed together. Ladies and gentlemen, The law submitted serves this purpose: to provide 200 percent and to show Veszprém and Hungary to Europe in the true, worthy light. The proper preparation and conduct of the 2023 series of programmes is of national interest, and we must therefore do our utmost to ensure that we do the best possible. As I mentioned earlier, 2023 seems far away, but we all know that well designed and sustainable investments and infrastructure improvements do not take a few months. In the case of larger projects, only planning, licensing and intervention can take years. In this design process, we cannot talk about years, and the virus has narrowed the time available. In order for joint construction to be successful in both physical and metaphorical terms, we cannot always wait for the usual order of procedures. We ask Parliament to allow us to prepare everything as quickly as possible, yet with the utmost care by 2023, and in December 2022 we do not have to worry about whether the concrete will bind us under our feet. We would like to use as much confidence and support as possible for the success of the common dream as possible by the Government of Hungary. Dear House, Many of the people who are sitting here may remember that Pécs became the first European Capital of Culture in Hungary in 2010. Although their situation was not as fortunate as ours now, it was for the Veszprémians, since eight years of socialist government and a poorly managed global economic crisis are not the ideal basis for preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know what the word of the year was in 2020? Perhaps not surprisingly, the,, closing, which shows that our language reflects the world around us. This year is about victims, challenges, human fates, closure. At the same time, do you know what the title of Veszprém's application was? Beyond, i.e. overstep, overstep, overstep, overstep, overstep, over the limits, over the limits. Everything is given to us so that we can truly become the centre of Europe in 2023. Based on the past ten years, we are proud to say that the creation of cultural investments and the continuous development of the countryside is not a curiosity. We've been building and building for ten years. With the help of the "Hungarian Village" programme and the "Modern Cities" programme, we achieved outstanding community successes together, aiming at the development of rural and urban life, which were not even similar in the socialist period before 2010. We can take advantage of an exceptional opportunity in a region with exceptional talents, with visible results. If this damn virus goes away, I would love to offer everyone a trip to Veszprém so that they can see for themselves what I'm trying to put into words. Veszprém and the region of Lake Balaton are less well-known than the large Western European cultural regions, and I am proud to say that they compete with these places in every respect. Veszprém has been preparing, planning and dreaming for 15 years to become the cultural capital of Europe, and proudly to present that recognition to the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all my fellow Members to help us achieve this dream together and place the Hungarian countryside on the cultural map of Europe. Go, Veszprém! Go, Bakony and Balaton regions! Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-86	I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-20-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute that this is a very important bill, and it is in the country's common interest and national interest that Veszprém will be Europe's cultural capital in 2023. But not only Veszprém, but also the surrounding settlements, the shore of Lake Balaton, will be involved in this project. I was happy to read this bill, but let us look at the pitfalls that I see as opposition representatives in this bill, of course not repeating my fellow Member Ovadi's exposé, in which he explained in detail what investments will be made. I would like to highlight two points that show me that they practically support the measures that you have taken in recent years in the case of major international events. There was talk about how much investment will be built and beautiful in the city of Veszprém, but we have seen it in recent years, and I would just like to set an example here, and this is the increase in costs of the water world, an international event that has brought unexpected expenditure that has virtually quadrupled the budget. In 2017 you announced in March 15 that this would cost HUF 24.5 billion, then in November 16 it was 47.8, then in spring 17 the budget of the water World Championship closed by 95 billion and finally by 103 billion. Now, in August 2020, a press report announced that 88.5 billion is planned for this European Capital of Culture event, which, of course, means not only events but also infrastructure investments. So I understand this amount, I just don't know that when we talk about it in 2021-22-23, and then, in 24 hours, how much it will cost Hungarian taxpayers, we are now at HUF 88.5 billion... I don't want to take the water world as a basis, because if we quadruple it, it's an awful lot of money. Of course, I say, I do not dispute the need for investment, the transfer of necessary real estate to the municipality and the Veszprém County, as they can coordinate these programs and the year 2023 itself. I note in brackets that in Annexes 1 and 2, I would correct the numbering because it is misleading; 11 properties are given to Veszprém and two to the county of the Archdiocese, but there are problems with the numbering. You have classified this as a priority investment in the public interest, and in this you have also made an exemption for public procurement procedures, which I also consider to be of concern. I also believe that we need to make decisions very quickly, and we need to start these investments as soon as possible, so that, indeed, by 2023, as my fellow Member has said, concrete will not be dry now. We also remember in the water world that even a few weeks before that, there was a question as to whether these races could be held. We hope that you will begin now, and now, by 1 January 2023, everything will be very ready. But making concessions in public procurement procedures at this level is more than a concern to me. I am asking the Secretary of State why this is happening; that is why we have three more years. We know it's a big investment, the castle needs to be renewed, there's everything, but concessions in public procurement procedures, I don't think that's what I'm talking about. So I'd like an exact answer to that. And the other thing that's causing me trouble is 2nd and 13th. the contradiction of the article. So it's not a contradiction, it's practically a contradiction. § 13 is explained as follows: the introduction of §8. Article 2 The point is that I'm about to say to this series of programmes, the cultural capital of Veszprém Europe 2023, that I've written down the local government of Veszprém County, on the one hand, as its builder and investor, on the other hand, Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Zrt., which is a project company that is holding this whole series of events together, unless there is any other legislation. [[13.30]] Then the 13th. Paragraph 2 describes in a government decree who will determine who will be the companies, economic operators, who will provide the investments and other constructions. So, what I'm seeing is that they're pulling the whole thing out of our way again. I agree with the aim, so do not make it clear that I do not agree with Veszprém becoming the cultural capital of Europe in 2023; even because Siófok joined. So we are pleased that the Siófok body of representatives has joined this project with many, many serious tens of millions, seeing that this will be a decisive project in the coming period, and the city of Siófok would like to profit so much from it, although on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, there will be opportunities. But because now they're defining two players, and then who knows who else will be in the government decree and how they'll get into this project, I'm in this 2nd and 13. § is also of concern. Agreeing with all the objectives expressed by both Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Member of Ovád in his Expo, I believe that this draft legislation needs minimum reflection and revision. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-88	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have learned that Jobbik supports Veszprém as the cultural capital of Europe, but he does not want to add money, he does not want the investments to be completed in time, but he is very supportive of Veszprém becoming the cultural capital of Europe. Well, I sense some contradiction here, Congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are not three years left to build these, but two years, 2021 and 2022, so we can safely say by the end of November that two years are available. I think that there will be such a fantastic investment in this time that there is a justification for the acceleration band that the law, by the way, rightly wants Parliament to give the government so that these can happen. I'm going to talk to you about the proposal. I'm just going to answer a few more things to the congresswoman. Articles 2 and 13 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), However, since you know this, especially if you look at the project website, which regions are affected, such as Balatonfüred, such as the Balaton region, such as the Bakony region, from Zirc to the eastern, north-eastern and southern part of Bakony, you will be able to see exactly what may be necessary in these places, not to say that there will be, but that others may be able to build these projects, because, for example, the municipality of Veszprém has no authority to build in Zircen or to build in Balatonfüred. So this is simply because a region applied there. I wanted to turn to this regional cooperation in my speech after thanking my colleague Péter Ovádi, Mayor Gyula Varga and Commissioner Tibor Navracsics for the work of their colleagues, who have prepared and have been working on this proposal and for implementing it, that it is very important that we see regional cooperation. This is a very, very good example of regional cooperation in Hungary, I think, that the Bakony region, the Balaton region and the municipality of Veszprém, will work together, so that visitors, participants in cultural programmes and participants in the events brought here will have a wide view of the beautiful region, the region of Bakony-Veszprém-Balaton, and not only the beauty and history of a city, its traditions, its built heritage, but also the beauty of the region, the beauty of Lake Balaton, the beauty of the hills of Bakony. So I am very, very happy that this proposal was launched in a regional cooperation, and that is how Veszprém won the title of the European Capital of Culture in 2023. I think that this series of programmes will provide an excellent opportunity for the cities of queens and the outstanding culture, historical heritage, natural sights, lively communities of the wonderful Balaton region and the unique gastronomics of Europe. The programme series will aim to present and convey the unique charm, living environment, sustainable development of the city of Veszprém and the landscape of Balaton, as well as the creativity and love of the people living here, on the occasion of the cultural capital of Europe. The region is not only an important site of Hungarian history and Hungarian culture, but also played an important role in European history, because on the shore of Lake Balaton it was possible to meet people living on the western and eastern half of Europe during the Iron Curtain. The success of the European Capital of Culture, presenting the city of Veszprém and the Balaton region 2023, is, in my opinion, a national interest. During the events, many foreign visitors will arrive to Hungary, who will spend nights in Veszprém and Balaton hotels, eat in restaurants here, visit the museums and cultural institutions here, use the services here, and participate in the events that will take place here, and we hope that they will bring good news not only to the region of Veszprém, the region of Balaton, but to the whole of Hungary when they return. The city and region, which hold the title "European Capital of Culture" with its cultural productions, will thus rise to the centre of European attention, thereby improving the image of the city, increasing the efficiency and attractiveness of the local creative industry. The title "European Capital of Culture" was created more than 30 years ago and has been one of the most important producers of the EU's cultural policy ever since. The initiative and the programme have been a real success in learning and exploring the culture of European cities and regions for the past 30 years. As the Secretary of State said, it is a joy that the European Union has noticed in recent years what values are found in Central and Eastern Europe, and a little focus has been transferred here, and not only Western European regions or cities can win this title, but also from the Baltic, Central Europe and Eastern Europe; I consider this a joyful process. The bill before us contains the important facilities and investments needed to organise the programme series. The proposal also takes into account the experience of Pécs in 2010. I do not rate experiences, negative experiences, but it also takes into account positive experiences, and I think it is important that from the project that is important and positive, we raise what is not so much and we avoid it. The current Veszprém application and this bill therefore ensure that the facilities and developments are completed by 2023 while maintaining the guarantee rules for efficient public spending. In addition to the success of the programme series, the infrastructure-cultural developments and investments in Veszprém are also in the interest of the people of Veszprém and tourists who later visit. The bill settles the legal situation needed to carry out the series of programmes and creates the possibility for improvements to take place as soon as possible in addition to transparency. The bill also provides the public properties set out in the Annex to the property of the municipality of Veszprém and, in some cases, the county of Veszprém for the proper exploitation of the property. In the event of a highly important national interest and successful organisation of the programme series, the city of Veszprém, the Balaton region and therefore the whole of Hungary can benefit, so the KDNP Group will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As Veszprémi, I am proud that in 2023 Veszprém and the region will be the cultural capital of Europe. Veszprém has had such a tender before, unfortunately at that time it failed, perhaps even against Pécs. The then city leadership, which might be worth mentioning, even for the sake of the minutes, was also believed by Mayor László Dióssy, Ferenc Hartmann and Vice Mayors István Asztalos that there was a point in submitting such a tender, doing it, and Fidesz also supported the application of the then socialist-SZDSZ city administration, thanks for it. What I see is that the same situation is the other way around, so in Hungarian: now opposition socialist representatives are also supporting this proposal, and this support will remain so until the end of the project. I myself wrote to Mayor Porga a letter in which I offered my help, if I can help this project in any way, then, of course, I am personally available. [[13.40]] Let me make a minor remark, and I will do so because Congressman Nacsa has just mentioned this word. I would have dealt with it, but perhaps it is better this way: this is the issue of transparency. I therefore believe that transparency is as important as the timely completion of these projects. It might have been worth involving opposition politicians or experts proposed by opposition politicians or factions, either on board or on supervisory boards. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Perhaps this could be corrected, since I do not think that one such person, let us say, could prevent it with malice if we even assumed the success of such a project, but it would certainly make sense from the point of view of transparency. If it is a joint project that everyone in the city and in the region believes in, then perhaps the election of a person whose person can guarantee that this transparency can also be achieved from the side of opposition-minded politicians, or at least from the citizens' side, or at least some kind of guarantee, or at least some kind of guarantee, may not weaken this project, but even strengthen it according to my faith; let me repeat, in particular, once again, if there is a political consensus in the importance and usefulness of the project in Veszprém. I would also like to thank Ferenc Hartmann for his work, as he is also trying to do a lot within the local government to keep this project going there, also in the city. He is a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party in the municipality of Veszprém. Secondly, he also rightly mentioned that those who visit this area, Veszprém, Bakony and Balaton in 2023, should make good news of this project, the city and what they see there. There is only one more important thing, if I may put it this way, that those who live in this region should also live the year that made sense, and they too should not, in a way, carry on the good news, but preserve the good news of the year they have passed. True, it is worth building on the examples and experiences of Pécs. I think that this project will be successful in the long term if it is not only for the year, but also for the year where it is built, which is beautiful there, the projects we carry out will later serve the interests, quality of life or cultural and other upbuildings of people living in the region. So if there is something worth wishing for, or what I would like to ask, then also to consider these developments in such a way that they are not just one-off attractions, but can also be integrated into the everyday lives of people living in the region, after we are beyond this project. So, overall, I would like to say that I will propose to the MSZP fraction to support this project. I fully understand the concerns of my better fellow Member on public procurement and others, as there are a number of truly negative experiences of the opposition and perhaps also of Hungarian voters, many of them in this regard, as far as the governance of Fidesz is concerned. However, I am going to suggest that we support this project, since we should give it a chance to see if it's going to be any different. I trust that Commissioner Tibor Navracsics will pay particular attention both to transparency and to the fact that these anomalies do not accompany the implementation of the project in Veszprém or in the region. I am just saying this for the sake of self-criticism, because my better fellow Member has rightly suggested that in our time the budget for the cultural capital of Pécs has also increased by almost 50 percent, i.e. from 30 billion to almost 45 billion. That doesn't necessarily mean they're stealing these money. So there may be changes over the years, price developments that make this inevitable. Although it would be better, it is a fact and fact, as you have mentioned, a facility for several world events, where these costs have increased irrationally, and in many cases in an unjustified way, so criticism is justified, but perhaps it is only fair to mention this for a moment, and then I am completely fair to ourselves. So, on the whole, I can say to you once again, to my fellow Member, Mr Péter Ovádi, and also to the government, that I would support and support this project. As a last sentence, let me put it once more on the table, so that you might consider giving the local opposition some insight or civilian experts invited by the local opposition, I believe that such a person was the suggestion of local representatives there, at least according to my information. Perhaps this would be worth it if this project could continue with the same consensus as it started and could end, of course, for the long-term pleasure of the people of Veszprém and the people in the region, hopefully. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2020-11-20-92	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Herr Abgeordneter Ritter, sie haben das Wort.
u2020-11-20-93	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges. in Zusammenhang den Titulierung Kulturhauptstadt Europas 2023, Bestimmugen zur erfolgreichen Veranstaltung und Organisierung der Veranstaltung Kulturhauptstadt Europas 2023. T/13668. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/13668. in connection with the title 2023 of the European Capital of Culture, concerning the proposed legislation on the provisions relating to the successful organisation and organisation of the 2023 series of programmes. In 2010, the city of Pécs was the cultural capital of Europe. When the decision was made, I was very pleased to do so, because Pécs, in general Baranya, is one of the citadels of Germanism in Hungary, and there are 11 nationalities in Pécs. If one of the Hungarian cities is able to demonstrate the diversity and beauty of Hungarian culture, including ethnic culture, it is Pécs. I used to go to Pécs on work and ethnic matters. It was a particularly bad feeling to see then that more investments were not or only partially completed and not in time, the quality was inadequate, and so unfortunately a series of cultural events were not, or could only be held with considerable delay, later. Nevertheless, the cultural capital has had many results. For example, Kodály Központ has been completed, which has been the venue of the Germans' Day cultural gala with nearly 300 performers and 700 viewers every other year since then. At the same time, 2010 and Pécs remained the missed opportunity for me. That's why I was happy with this bill. On the one hand, that the cultural capital of Europe will be Veszprém in 2023, as Veszprém, the county of Veszprém is also a traditionally populated settlement and region of the Germans in Hungary. On the other hand, I was pleased that the preparation, implementation and organisation of the programme series will begin in time, and I hope that it will be more successful than Pécs. In addition to reading the bill, I also tried to find out about the preparations, so I contacted Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Zrt. its website, where, of course, as a nationality, I first looked up national content. However, before I get to that point, I would like to highlight three sentences from the preamble to our Fundamental Law. I quote: -We declare that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. We undertake to cultivate and preserve our heritage, our unique language, our Hungarian culture, the language and culture of Hungarian nationalities, the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin. We believe that our national culture is a rich contribution to the diversity of European unity. End of subpoena. [[13.50]] I would now like to read to you, as a sharp contrast to what has been set out in the preamble, a short section of the presentation published on the official website of the European Capital of Culture of the Bid Book, Veszprém-Balaton 2023 programme, where there is any mention of the involvement of nationalities in the European Capital of Culture 2023. I note, in the first place, the subtitle: "Involve national minorities, leave something to be desired," in particular, in nine years the author failed to get to the point that in Hungary we are not talking about minorities, but about nationalities, but some of the sentences in the chapter itself are rather outrageous, showing total indiscretion. I quote literally the ominous part: the involvement of national minorities. Veszprém and its surroundings are very homogeneous: as a result of historical vargabes with different bad memories, only ethnic monuments remained around us, but not nationalities. Today, there are only a minimal number of people living in the city who claim to be members of other nationalities, and they are mostly present either as university students or as foreigners established in the area, so they are not in sight and self-organization is not typical of them. Yet their presence can be both a challenge and an opportunity for a hint of alien taste to appear in our program, making it easier for the locals to confront the other kind. The ErasMunch projects, for example, support our efforts, primarily through our stomachs. Local heritage and memories left by minority cultures will be processed by some projects of the Confrontation project pillar. End of subpoena. First of all, I wish that the author of these few sentences would never have to experience the tragedies of the forced abduction and expulsion of the Germans in Hungary, which he himself calls with noble simplicity, and which he considers to be the result of which he considers to be only a memory of nationality, but no longer nationalities. That's an amazing claim. Contrary to what has been said above, the facts are as follows: the number of inhabitants of Veszprém county is nearly 370 thousand people, 217 settlements, currently having 14 city rankings, and the county seat is Veszprém. According to the public data of Vásztas.hu for everyone, 4043 active Germans live in the 101 settlements of Veszprém county, who registered themselves separately in the German nationality register, but we estimate that there are at least 15 thousand German inhabitants in the county. In addition, there are thousands of other nationalities in the 112 settlements of the county native to Hungary, with more than 40 local minority self-governments and countless NGOs. I would also like to inform you and the author of this paper that, in the case of foreign students or foreigners established in Veszprém County, the majority of Germans do not belong to the German nationality of Hungary, because the German nationality in Hungary does not call itself Ungarndeutsch, or German in Hungary by accident. For three centuries, we have our own German ethnic mother tongue, culture, folk costume, ethnic traditions, which we now pass on to our children and grandchildren for ten generations, and which distinguishes us from Germans in the motherland or any other German language territory temporarily or permanently in Hungary. The ominous part, I quote, is a hint of alien taste that can be displayed in our program, making it easier for the locals to be confronted with a different kind. This comment is amazing to me, if you consider the ethnicities of Hungary to be aliens, moreover, by writing the term, " Alien" twice in a row, it seems that in our case, after our 300 years here at the Germans, the study did not fully succeed. I would also like to draw the author's attention to the fact that we do not have to confront the locals or anyone else with our other kind, because we are not different, but German or other nationalities, which we are proud of. The Germans of Veszprém County have had a local government since 2007 under the leadership of Heilig Franci. The German Nationality Municipality of Veszprém County collects local German minority self-governments operating in 48 settlements. So it can be established that, in contrast to the unrealization of self-organization, almost one in four settlements of Veszprém county, there is still a local German nationality government. In 26 primary schools and 26 kindergartens of Veszprém county there is German ethnic education. Of these, the kindergarten and the school in Bakonyna, Magyarpolány, Úrkút and Városlőd, the kindergarten in Márkón, the school in Balatoncsicson, and the school of primary ethnic art education are maintained by the local German ethnic government. In Veszprém there is a high level of German ethnic education at the Lovassy National High School, and it has been chosen as the best high school in the country several times. The German ethnicity community of Magyarpollány organizes the already known Passion game of Magyarpollány throughout Europe on an annual basis. In Veszprém county, there are 26 German ethnic traditions associations, 35 ethnic choirs, dance groups and orchestras throughout the county, taking advantage of the cultural autonomy in 13 settlements. This year we started the complete renovation of the German House in Veszprém, for which I thank the insured HUF 200 million, personally, Mr. Secretary of State, I think we will be finished just in time. The fact that the Germans of the county, the German ethnic associations here, are important to the entire German ethnicity in Hungary also shows that the Landesrat celebrated the 20th anniversary of its founding in the Veszprém Arena on 30 July 2016. On the occasion of the anniversary, in the spirit of belonging, we celebrated in an unusual manner. Instead of a traditional gala show, we compiled a large-scale interactive play, which also told the story and mission of Landesrat, including a 450-person choir that united the choirs of 15 different settlements with a 116-person German national minority band. In the megaproduction, more than 40 ensembles have sung, danced and played together with more than two thousand German ethnic culture practitioners daily, and the person bearing the heart has played together. This was the ethnic cultural event, which I claim to be unique and unique in Europe, in the Veszprém Arena, almost without viewers, as the actors, the performers practically filled the audience and the arena of the sports hall. All this has been recorded as a professional picture and audio material, which I will send to the author of this ethnic part of Bid Book. I wonder if after that you will maintain your false claim that the area of Veszprém and Veszprém are extremely homogeneous only ethnic monuments, but not ethnic ones. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Fortunately, we are still in time to ensure that the desired cultural diversity in a cultural capital can indeed be seen. I firmly state that without the cultural values of nationalities native to Hungary, the culture of Hungary or even of Veszprém and its surroundings cannot be presented in its entirety and authentically. A nationality concert, a communal mass, a national minority church choir meeting, ethnic exhibitions, ethnic theatre performances, dance houses or any other ethnic cultural event, where the visitor meets his native language, be it the German, Slovak, Bulgarian or any other language, which is also the mother tongue of a native nationality in Hungary, surely gives the participants a deeper, more personal and lasting memory and enhances the diversity of the event. Therefore, I consider it important and will initiate the involvement of the cultural professionals and leaders of the municipal, county or even national minority self-governments, ethnic civil society organisations in the work of preparing the European Capital of Culture 2023, as soon as possible. [[14.00]] I trust that this bill will also help the cultural capital of Europe, which will take place in Veszprém in 2023, to assemble in time, to make the necessary investments in order, and to ensure that Hungary has as much historical and cultural value as possible, including the values added and created by 13 indigenous Hungarian nationalities, to meet visitors to Veszprém and Veszprém County, and to strengthen the good news of Hungary. Parliament's Committee on Nationalities in Hungary supports the bill and proposes it to Parliament for adoption. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmersamkeit!
u2020-11-20-94	Vielen Dank, Herr Abgeordneter Ritter. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No one came forward for further discussion, the general debate... [[Péter Ovádi: The machine doesn't work!]] I can't see anything on the monitor. If it was a technical error, I would ask for another login or technique to display Congressman Ovadi, and I will give it to you immediately. [[For signal:]] I see Mr. Masterházy, I still don't see Mr. Ovadi. But then I would like to ask the technique to give the floor to Congressman Ovadi first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy. Just for the record, let me say that the Fidesz faction initiated the tender in 2007 with the then leadership of the city of Veszprém, but of course we were trying to win the European Capital of Culture together. The municipality of Veszprém established a working group of the European Capital of Culture, where opposition factions can delegate two or two persons, and in the meantime Kovács Rajmund has quit Jobbik as an independent participant in this work. So Tibor Navracsics is absolutely careful to ensure full transparency, and I would also like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that the next meeting will take place on 24 November in an online space, so the company will always provide information to Members. I think Veszprém is at the forefront of transparency, since in 2015 he appointed Mayor Gyula Porga as Commissioner for Transparency Mr Ferenc Gerstmár as LMP representative, precisely on the proposal of opposition factions, and since 2019 he has been represented by the municipal representative Ferenc Hartmann. His job is to check the local government companies. So I think I would just like to reassure the Member that everything is given to the opposition representatives to gain insight into the operation of the municipality and the operation of municipal-owned companies. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-20-96	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-97	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't want to push the debate too far, because in the end, we won't agree on what we agreed at the beginning, so I would say in a very modest way that we would be willing to accept that, without the Fidesz fraction, no one would have thought that Veszprém would start a competition like this. Unfortunately, then, the Fidesz fraction couldn't do this tender because they weren't in power in Veszprém. This required István Asztalos and the then city leadership, and it is true that they did so afterwards, and the support remained, as I just said. And I want this to be one of ours for the next two or three years. The other thing is, I've been very specific. It is not about what politicians have and what they don't have in a municipal framework, but I have indicated that there is a company that complicates these procedures precisely, and it is different when one sees the process than when it comes to the outcome and then works out of papers, than if it is part of the debates that are taking place. Therefore, opposition factions have proposed a name, who is not a politician, but a professional, and with due respect I asked the government representative to consider giving this person a seat on the board of directors. By the way, Mayor Gyula Porga didn't shut down, but it seems to be going a little slower. It might make sense to close this issue quickly, and then everyone could focus on everyone agreeing, and everyone would calm down and really create an environment that would be needed for such a project to go along with consensus. One sentence, just to confirm this consensus: it is true that the mayor of Veszprém pays much more than the average attention to involving the opposition even now, even in the pandemic situation, so that they can see [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What's happening in the city. So this credit, to put it simply, we have to give it to the mayor. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-98	Thank you. I will ask again if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary Soltés. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank everyone for their comments and for the otherwise truly constructive debate. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Winner Vinnai.]] Thank you very much to Imre Ritter, Member, you are absolutely justified, not only for your comments, but also for your outrage. I share in that respect that such carelessness cannot be done. Not even because, even through a Member, many others and through Congressman Ritter, the ethnic communities in Veszprém and the minority community of small settlements in the area have received great help in recent years and have done a great deal of work, proving their presence. I am also sorry for this truly unacceptable wording. I believe that this warning, this observation, was made at the right time, and hopefully not only will the editors follow the community, but they will not make any more mistakes like this. And thank you very much for your support, as you can see that this is an important task, because that is what your speech was about. Thank you very much. The other thing I would like to highlight is that Anita Potocsány Kőrösi has, on the one hand, all of her supporting comments and supportive thoughts. Let me tell you two things, which is obviously a reflection on your point. One indication is that an investment could have been expensive or expensive over the last few years. Unfortunately, this is not a Hungarian phenomenon, but a world phenomenon. If I look only at Hungary, on the one hand, what Mr Attila Mesterházy MSZP Member said about how the investment in Pécs was expensive at the time, more than ten years ago, we could also track it, and they actually include many components. Obviously, the most important thing is that there are representatives, city leaders and those who would like to implement this wonderful plan; and in the end, many new things come up, or the renovation of old buildings is not as much as they first anticipated. So let me protect both Pécs and this project in advance against such attacks. On the other hand, it is really a parenthesis: the biggest corruption is not, if that is what the congresswoman was trying to refer to. The biggest corruption is the renovation of subway 4, the fact that there is a rich billionaire and he affects EU and other civil servants. [[Delight, growl in the ranks of Jobbik and DK. Anita Kőrösi Potocsány: Secretary of State!]] Well, the DK immediately noticed that we were in a debate. It's the biggest corruption, so everything else, if there is, is dwarf. On the other hand, I understand your comment, thank you, and here I also thank you for what Attila Mesterházy said, and even if there was a negative thought in it, or even a better criticism, even a valid criticism, let me say that for the past decade and a half or two decades, since we have been working together here in Parliament and I say that we have been sitting on a different side in a series of debates and struggles, it has always been due to the tone that we have listened to each other. [[14.10]] This debate is also a reflection of this, and not only of the tone, but also of the very sad fact that was really sad, and is also an answer to the question of the woman representing it, why it should be urged, why it should be done quickly. If you think about it, there were two tragedies in the Baranya or Pécs community of the MSZP, partly because of the death of Congressman Toller and partly because of Mayor Tasnádi's serious illness, I do not say that these were 100 percent due to the increase in the burden on them, on their shoulders, which made their lives difficult, but certainly contributed to it. Therefore, I say that it is very important that, although we are on different sides, we disagree on a lot of things, but perhaps that human lives are important, and human lives are important in such a way that we put such a burden on the shoulders of a politician, a public figure, which does not destroy his health. Once again, I believe that unfortunately these two MSZP politicians were involved in this. So I do not think that we need to take care of or pay attention to each other in this respect, that, when and when it is worth making a decision, we should speed up investment opportunities together, excluding what has otherwise been raised quite rightly, and I thank you very much for saying so. However, I would like to thank everyone, of course Mr Péter Ovádi, for his preparatory work so far, and for his speech, as well as Lőrinc Nacsa, but everyone who has contributed in this debate. Believe me, as the figures in Pécs showed, when the cultural capital itself began, surveys showed that two thirds of the Pécs considered the investment to be important and good, one third did not. Then when the whole year was over, and then there was a lot of refurbished and beautiful areas with the Zsolnay Centre, the Kodály Centre and many others and the renovation of downtown, after which more than 90 percent of the Pécs said that it was important, it was worth it. I believe that both the people of Veszprém and the people of Bakony and Lake Balaton, even if appropriate, Congresswoman, the Siófok will be pleased with this investment. Thank you very much for the hearing and the opportunity, and thank you for your supporting statements and contributions. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-20-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 yesterday. Dear House, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws with administrative burdens for customers until closure. The government referral T/13674. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[Dr. István György will take his place as Secretary of State.]]
u2020-11-20-101	Thank you for your patience while we exchanged with Secretary of State Soltés. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government's priority over the last decade has been to simplify administrative procedures and significantly speed up procedures, to operate a trust-based, efficient and fast administration. During the decades following the change of regime, the necessary change of attitude in the administration of the authorities did not take place for a long time. The first real, substantial change, although some decisions were made in previous years, of course, but the first truly meaningful change in the administration was the establishment of metropolitan and county government offices on 1 January 2011. On 1 January 2013, following the historical traditions of the Hungarian government, local levels of public administration, district and metropolitan district offices were re-established, creating three central, regional and local systems of the Hungarian state administration. The establishment of government windows and the establishment of a national network have been a significant step in ensuring high-quality, integrated, one-stop shop for all citizens. These are easily available and are now over 300 in accessible locations. An effort was, figuratively speaking, to reach points within walking distance of the residential area, where meeting with the state provided citizens. Government offices are the gateway between the state and citizens as general government administration bodies. 28 million cases are handled annually. In government windows, 13 million customers each year handle their business from the issue of a simple address card to family support benefits to dealing with consumer complaints. In addition, in recent years, the state has tried to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, which significantly hamper Hungary's competitiveness, by reducing red tape and reducing its costs. In addition to the measures taken so far, the work started needs to be continued. As the world continues to change, public administration needs to keep up. There is currently an emergency in Hungary, but life does not stop, and the country has to work, and it is necessary to decide on a number of issues that will help to facilitate people's everyday life and the operation of businesses even after the emergency. Decisions need to be taken at all times in the area of further simplification of administrative procedures. This is what the bill before you proposes to amend 41 laws. The amendments prepared with the involvement of the metropolitan and county government offices will contribute to reducing the burden on citizens and businesses, simplifying and speeding up administrative procedures and making the functioning of government agencies as enforcement bodies more effective. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not aim to present all the professional proposals and all the elements of the bill in this speech; I would just like to give you the most important directions. Public administration must continuously respond to age challenges and emerging needs. In this context, the development and extension of eGovernment is currently one of the major challenges. The basic objective is to enable citizens and businesses to use electronic services online, even from home, in view of the epidemic situation. The electronic submission of applications has been the subject of the development of electronic forms in 449 government offices. These developments concern, inter alia, the areas of social and child protection, social management, health insurance, family support and environmental protection. Applications may be made electronically by means of a form, such as an application for a baby-care or childcare fee or an application for an environmental permit. Following the amendment of the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act, the district office will not need to appoint an expert when setting the child's home care fee, if the child's rehabilitation is not recommended, has significant health damage and is not capable of self-sufficiency, or can only be assisted, saving the child and their relatives from a further peer review. Individual entrepreneurs need continuous measures to simplify the operation of companies and their official affairs, thus improving the competitiveness of our country. [[14.20]] In view of this, the bill provides for the following. The opening and termination of the bank account of the company and of the company shall be communicated by financial institutions outside the tax authority to the Chamber of Commerce competent at the place of establishment and to the notary competent at the place of establishment and establishment, thereby reducing the scope of the bodies to be visited by the company. Individual entrepreneurs will be able to initiate a request for registration in the Chamber at the NAV, at the same time as announcing the start of individual business activities, so that the self-employed do not have to visit the Chamber. The Chamber Data Sheet shall be forwarded by the NAV to the Regional Chamber of Commerce. Under the rules in force, the labour authority may only apply for documents relating to the creation, modification and termination of employment and the work of workers in the original manner. This is inflexible regulation, and therefore this bill will be abolished, and in the future the client may submit the requested documents in a copy if he declares that they are in agreement with the original. A number of legislations contain a requirement for companies to retain their documents, which should be reduced in a reasonable manner. For example, it is not necessary to keep data and declarations related to advertising for five years after publication, and it will be sufficient to have a maximum of three years. Nor does the nature of consumer complaints that may arise in the course of commercial activity require a period of five years to preserve documents, and the bill also reduces the retention obligation to three years. The scope of the procedures where it is sufficient to notify the authority instead of the authorisation procedure is extended. From now on, it will be sufficient to notify the transport authority of the construction of the dirt road or the construction of a temporary guideway linked to the railway passage, road renovation, thereby accelerating these procedures. Universal service providers, district heating, water utility providers, waste management services shall be exempt from the monthly reporting obligation for the reduction of costs and shall provide information to the consumer authority on an annual basis. In addition to environmental damage in order to protect customers, the environmental burden established in the future by the Authority's decision to become definitive by the environmental authority will also be recorded in the real estate register, ensuring that customers are aware of environmental burdens during the sale of real estate. The bill also contains a number of amendments that facilitate the activities of citizens and businesses. For example, the amendment proposes the abolition of mandatory training of social fishers every two years, funeral service providers do not need to justify compliance with the tax, customs and contribution obligations, and instead the licensing authority will contact the tax authority. Changes in the real estate register, which also affect land use, are automatically transferred to the land use register without the client's special notification. As you can see, the bill does not only concern a group of society, but also covers many areas of public administration, thus enabling the establishment of an efficient, strong, service-service administration that we can confidently turn to because it is capable of dealing with our affairs at a high professional level and quickly. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, I would like to quote the target designation of Zoltán Magyary, according to which the administration has no other justification, no other measure than the service of the people and the nation. With our bill, we are trying to meet this objective, which is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Adam Héyj David, the lead speaker of the Fidesz group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In front of us lies T/13674. A proposal for a bill amending certain laws that impose administrative burdens on customers, which is fully in line with the government's bureaucracy reduction action programme, as it seeks to enable citizens to deal with their affairs faster, cheaper and more conveniently in the future under professional conditions. It is important to point out that the government is not only doing one-off, ad hoc, but also continuous, efficient and systemic bureaucracy cuts in public administration. Thanks to these measures, not only the satisfaction of customers, but also the competitiveness of Hungary can continue to increase in the future. Article XXIV of the Fundamental Law Article 1 (1) of the Act reads as follows: "Everyone has the right to be dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In order to ensure that the constitutional requirements imposed by our Fundamental Law are met, the Public Administration and Public Service Development Strategy 2014-2020 also set itself the goal of ensuring that by 2020 the Hungarian administration operates in an organised, consistent and transparent institutional structure, modern and customer-friendly procedures, accessible to all citizens, with a professional and highly qualified, ethical and motivated staff, within the organisational framework required by today's modern environment, cost-effectively, with the minimum administrative burden, competitive service fees and short deadlines. Ladies and gentlemen, In line with the objectives set out in this strategy, the government has already taken a number of steps to reduce administrative bureaucracy and reduce public debt in the government period 2010-2018. However, in addition to these successes, a continuous review of the legislation is essential. It is also essential to revise administrative burdens which, although not directly linked to official procedures, can make the day-to-day operation of an undertaking very difficult. Dear House, The bill before us seeks to amend 41 laws, as the Secretary of State said, which cover a number of fields ranging from social management to fish management. The Secretary of State presented the significance of the draft law to us in his exposé, but please allow me to briefly explain some of the points myself. In the beginning, I would like to point out that the proposal also envisages the introduction of electronic forms based on projects under the operational programme for public administration and public service development in other areas. It should be noted that in 449 government cases, electronic forms have been developed, as the Secretary of State said, that applications for the issue of csed, ged or even environmental permits will in the future be submitted by electronic forms. It should also be pointed out that public service providers subject to a reduction in charges are exempted from the monthly reporting obligation, so that it will be sufficient for them to send the information to the consumer authority annually. According to the proposal, the competent district office will no longer need to appoint an expert when setting a child's home care fee if the child's rehabilitation is not recommended, including significant health damage and is unfortunately not capable of self-sufficiency at all or only with assistance. I think it is very important that we do not burden these difficult families with unnecessary tortures. The Central Statistical Office also has an undisputed role in enabling decision-makers to find information on the basis of up-to-date and accurate data collected from appropriate and credible sources. It is therefore essential that KSH be able to contact the reporting agents in the most efficient way possible, avoiding personal contact, for example during the current epidemic situation. In this way, the number of subscriber stations and the personal data of subscribers will be received by KSH in the future, instead of by the postal route, by the personal and by the interviewing commissioner, in a personalised manner, so that the person appointed to the reporting agents can be contacted by telephone. Dear Parliament, In short, I would also like to mention the idea of reducing administrative procedures for entrepreneurs. Reading through the text of the draft, we can see that there are a number of facilitations available to entrepreneurs, for example, if the company opens or terminates a bank account, then in the future the financial institution will communicate this fact to the Chamber of Commerce outside the NAV, as well as to the notary competent according to the place of establishment and establishment. Individual entrepreneurs have the opportunity to initiate a request for registration in the Chamber at the same time as the notification of the start of self-employed activities at the NAV. It is also appropriate to reduce the legal period for undertakings to retain their documents in a reasonable manner, as the Secretary of State said, for example, there will be no need to keep data and declarations relating to advertisements for five years after publication, and three years will prove sufficient in the future. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Although I believe that the proposal does not contain politically sensitive ideas, I also consider it necessary to give a brief explanation of a controversial point. It is likely that my fellow opposition Members have noticed that the government intends to introduce an administrative service fee for name change procedures. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/13258 on the amendment of certain tax laws According to the bill No.1, the levy on that procedure will be abolished, but the costs of the authorisation procedure should continue to be borne by the applicant customer. I would add that the amount to be paid by the client will not change as compared to the previous one. On the basis of the proposal, certified costs incurred by the authority for the purposes of reporting, contacting and notification from the home address register should also be paid in the future by those exempt from payment of an administrative fee. Just so we understand exactly what this is about: so those who can request data from the address register for free must pay for the mass data request. However, this does not mean that the authority would like to make it difficult to request data from the register by making it difficult for beneficiaries of the exemption to pay certified costs. I would like to say in any case that, in the past few days, there have been numerous requests for data of a magnitude of thousands and, therefore, for several days, the authorities have been engaged. This situation is therefore being addressed in this point of the proposal. Dear House, Of course, further points could be discussed in connection with the 41 laws to be amended, but I believe that, on the basis of what the rapporteur has said, we have all been able to learn the substance of the draft. Once again, I would like to point out that the main aim of the proposal on the House's table is to reduce further bureaucracy and to make administrative matters easier, faster and more effective, which is clearly in the interests of Hungarian citizens. In view of what has been said, the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group and I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-104	Thank you. I give the floor to Anita Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-20-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Not to repeat what I counted 42 in the context of this 41-42 amendment, you have repeatedly said 41, and you may not yet have what is on my computer on ParLex and Parliament.hu's side, but I'm starting from what we have published, it's about 42 amendments to the bill, it's mostly a reduction in administrative procedures, administrative cuts and electronic administration. I believe that the Jobbik Group can support all measures that can support customer-friendly public administration, electronic administration, I am famously against paper and protect the environment. So, in which cases we can switch to electronic forms, let us do so there, because it is in the interests of all of us. I note in parentheses that it is necessary to ensure the Internet everywhere that customers can handle these things, but that was just a parentheses note. I did not think that time would be drawn up because it was quite detailed what these proposals were about in two points, on the one hand, and on the other, I would like to make a comment. One is that, in the context of the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, I would like to ask the Secretary of State why, in the case of complaints from customers, entrepreneurs are now obliged to keep these complainant protocols for only three years instead of five years. I believe that the whole point of consumer protection is to make people feel safe. I consider this five-year reservation to be justified, and there is a retention of five-year documents in other documents. I would therefore like an exact answer as to why this is three years, why these documents are reduced to three years. It is a welcome fact that at last the self-employed do not have to send the registration to the economic and industrial chambers. This is very good, you will receive the data directly from the NAV through a one-stop shop. However, I would have liked to have read in this legislation that, on the proposal of László Parragh, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this compulsory chamber contribution will also be abolished if they want to help entrepreneurs. He has recently put forward a lot of proposals and measures for the government that make the hair of entrepreneurs or local governments stare into the sky, so it would have been very good if the suspension of that five thousand forints annual chamber contribution fee was included in this legislation, we would have been very pleased. Because now that you don't have to send an extra document directly to the Chamber, but the data flows through the NAV, it's good and beautiful, of course, but this doesn't reduce the burden, the accountant will take a minute less time to register. So it is possible to talk about what every county organization of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Hungary does for the five thousand forints they collect from businesses, because we do not see it yet, nor do entrepreneurs see what the content of this service is. The point is that every year, a notice comes in that if someone has not paid the five thousand forints by March. Yes, we see that the Chamber has to fill their mouths with something and pay for something, rather than suggesting that this should be reduced or abolished or suspended. No, you'd rather hear about how the car tax, the business tax, is to be deducted, suspended, or how the catnip entrepreneurs have to pay a 40 percent penalty tax, because that's what's happening in the chamber building. I put it in one of my posts the other day as if they were poisoning the water in the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because sometimes there are such hair-freaking ideas from the fact that I am very confident that the government will not take any of these, although the Katás proposal has been taken, and you voted for it, so next year the 40 percent penalty tax will be there. All in all, I therefore believe that the legislation itself is progressive and indeed cutting red tape, but that further measures to reduce red tape and reduce administrative burdens could also be introduced, I urge the government to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-11-20-106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-107	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to maintain the country's viability in the midst of a pandemic, and it is therefore of particular importance that Parliament sits and continues its legislative work, as it is doing now. As a part of this, the Prime Minister's Office Minister presented the T/13674 to reduce administrative burdens for customers. Bill No. 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill is aimed at cutting red tape on the basis of proposals from the metropolitan and county government agencies, and as a result more than 40 laws are indeed being amended. In view of the fact that István György, State Secretary, in his exposé, and the lead speaker of Fidesz, David Héjj, gave a detailed discussion of the bill in his speech, I therefore wish to explain the following. In order to ensure that citizens do not have to come to the government office in person for the purpose of submitting their application, 449 electronic forms have been developed for the electronic submission of the application and can therefore be submitted by electronic means. And it has really been said here, and I think it is extremely important to have family support, that the baby care fee and the child care fee will also be available in this form. The bill also helps families to introduce the possibility that, in the event of a specific condition, the district office will not have to appoint an expert when setting the care fee for children, and will not have to undergo an unnecessary peer review of the child. The bill also exempts public entities subject to reductions from monthly reporting obligations, and it will be sufficient for them to send the information on an annual basis. In order to improve the protection of the created world and to highlight environmental aspects, the legally established environmental burden will be entered in the landbook. In view of the fact that the land book is public and therefore, in the event of the transfer of the property, the author is already aware of the environmental burden on the property, so it is not possible to hide it from it in the future. In the event of the transfer of ownership of land used by the bill for the title of property, the real estate authority shall, after entry in the real estate register, conduct the procedure for the registration of the new owner in the land use register on its own initiative, and the client shall not have to initiate a separate procedure. [[14.40]] The bill will allow the mining service procedure to be assessed in the future without trial, and it will also be possible to exclude negotiation in expropriation procedures if the planned compensation amount is less than HUF 10 000 for any person entitled to compensation, i.e. for minor matters. In the future, the provision of data from the home address register will vary to the extent that those who can request data from the home address register for free will also be obliged to pay the verified costs of mass data request, such as paper costs and, if they are present, the cost of significant work. This change is necessary because, in recent times, thousands of data requests of tens of thousands, to say, of tens of thousands of pages, have been extremely bitten, which have kept the officials busy for several days, and the proposal seeks to compensate for this fairly. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-108	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-20-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill before us is a medium-intensity salad law. We have counted 42 legislative amendments, not 41, but this is a detailed question in my opinion. Allow me to introduce everything from road transport, car taxation, wildlife management to forestry, from child protection law to social law, from the Wage Guarantee Fund to the birth certificate procedure. This tells us very well the law and the haste of the last few years about how laws are prepared. In essence, there is no area of this law that is not affected by this salad law. I would like to highlight two or three parts of the entire law, which we believe should be mentioned. The proposal contains basically technical provisions on modernisation, digitalisation and electronic administration in order to speed up and simplify procedures. These are basically eligible provisions, as they are suitable for achieving the objectives set. Two elements of the proposal should be highlighted. One is connected to the Central Statistical Office. The proposal provides an opportunity for KSH to contact electronic communications service providers in order to request the telephone numbers of natural persons from these service providers. The Central Statistical Office shall indicate the parameters for requesting telephone numbers from the service provider and may also be informed that a given natural person has a subscription with that service provider. In this context, KSH may process personal data in order to prepare the various statistics. Based on the justification of the proposal, this is due to the more efficient collection and processing of statistical data. According to the justification of the proposal, information on the basis of up-to-date and accurate data is intended to facilitate collection. The proposal states that the changes are intended to enable the HCSO to conduct personalised requests for the collection of statistical data. However, the idea itself could in principle be supported, but KSH has also carried out a number of election-related data collections in the past. It can also be seen that certain data are represented in a more realistic way by the average wage, number of employees, number of doctors, so the purpose of these requests in the current Hungary is quite doubtful. The other point of the proposal, although it cannot be opposed to its content, is incredibly hypocritical in its reasoning. By amending the environmental law, the proposal aims to ensure that the environmental burden established by the Authority's decision to become final by the environmental and nature protection authority can be recorded in the real estate register, making it safer for customers to know about the environmental burden during the sale of real estate, such as auctions. This is a totally eligible part. However, the justification for the proposal continues to reduce by this new rule the number of cases where the State has an obligation to remove environmental burdens. The government seems to have completely forgotten the problems of the Mátra power plant, where the State had to bear significant costs for the environmental burden because of the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros. As a reminder, the Mátra Power Plant has been put at the centre of attention in recent years for a number of reasons. Partly because a public company decided to purchase the company just when it became loss-making. The company has been owned by Lőrinc Mészáros since 2017. In part, because the operation of the plant had suddenly become polluting, several local workers complained of sickness, and a decision of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Disaster Protection Directorate also revealed very significant deficiencies which suggest regular environmental damage. In the meantime, it also turned out that the state cost the power plant much more money than it did at first. In addition to the HUF 17.4 billion purchase price, a HUF 26.3 billion capital increase was carried out at the request of the company's management with the same bridging framework to keep the power plant operational, and a HUF 4.9 billion member loan was added. This was therefore a total cost of HUF 75.14 billion to the State, which is significantly greater than the first sale price of HUF 17.4 billion. It can be seen, therefore, that once again the government intends to introduce a provision which it is likely that they will withdraw themselves from. This also violates the fundamental rules of the formal rule of law. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support this salad law and we will vote with abstention. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-110	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps a few months ago, we had a law dealing with how to alleviate the administrative burdens that citizens encounter in their daily lives, and how some of them could be electronized in some way, somehow shifted to the online world and online form. I said it then, and I say it now, that such efforts by DK will always be supported. In all our programmes and in all our speeches, we say that we should make electronic administration possible as much as possible and that there should be as many types of cases to be dealt with by citizens as possible, and that is a welcome and supportive goal. By the way, if this package, this forty-something law, does not now open that the purpose of modifying one or two, but forty-something of the laws is, according to the Secretary of State, to make the declaration better for citizens to have less burden on them, then this is to be welcomed, supported, good. At the same time, there are a few questions, problems with one or more wordings or proposals for amendments. First of all, the introduction of electronic forms and the expansion of the possibilities of electronic administration in many cases is good and should be supported, but I always ask whether we are counting on the possibility of accessing the Internet here in the middle of Budapest, and we can easily and accurately understand an electronic form, and we can handle the questions and the instructions for filling in it, but this is not true for all ten million Hungarian citizens. [[14.50]] We know that digital illiteracy exists, we know that there are parts of this country where access to the Internet still depends on whether there is a community place in that settlement, in that village, where you can go for certain hours and do things electronically. So when we are, in fact, working to support the online availability of case types and the possibility of online administration, we should always think about whether we are working hard enough to make this accessible as widely as possible. Because the end, the essence of such proposals, is not only to make a form electronically, but also to see if people who have to use it and have to deal with them, and whether we can shift them, so to speak, to this online interface. I am very pleased that the hunting authority procedure is also being redirected to electronic travel, for example, by the fact that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén is the author of this law. I don't know, I don't want to highlight this moment either. My second comment, which Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said before me, is that, if I understand it correctly, the KSH will, if you ask, receive from the service providers the full telephone database that exists in this country. So we're also talking about the cell phone database, if I'm reading the law correctly. Yes, I do need to reiterate that the opposition has serious problems and problems with the processing of the KSH. There are questions, dilemmas, suspicions that some kind of data collection or subsequent data use may take place in connection with the processing of the KSH, which already serves certain political intentions. In the last ten years, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned this. And in a year and a half, there will be an election in this country. I can't get rid of the idea that this is actually the essence of this law, in fact, this is the kind of possibility that although the telephone database held by private companies, private companies, international telecommunications companies cannot be obtained otherwise, now KSH will obtain it if it so requests and, of course, it is included in the law that it will be destroyed afterwards. This raises a number of concerns that I shouldn't say suspicion. There are a lot of positive things in this bill, and I really do, and I'm not being ironic about it. I'm not gonna list them all. Let me just mention one thing. The fact that the labour authorities have so far had to submit the labour papers in original form if they have been dealt with, but now they have sufficient copies, is true with the same certified copy as the original. But this is certainly a step forward. But there are many, many of these tiny little bonbons hidden in this package, which is to be supported, which is good in this whole proposal. It causes me to be strange, but I'm sure Mr. Secretary of State will explain why the package of laws starts immediately, if I understand correctly, that roads and sidewalks are not subject to a permit under certain conditions, but only an announcement. For me, it's definitely a part of the matter that needs justification. Once again, let me bring in the current case, because we live in this country and get these impulses. I am sure the honourable Members have also read that yesterday, in addition to Orosháza the day before yesterday, Secretary of State Norbert Erdős opened a dirt road. For 90 million forints, that dirt road was completed, and I am very happy about it, being from the county of Békés, but how good it would have been if this law had come before, we wouldn't even have had a permit, we just had to announce that he wanted a dirt road. Finally, my fellow Member Vejkey mentioned a certain part of public interest data requests or their implementation. But let me bring you the problem that I have already talked about in the Justice Committee regarding another law. In the case of requests for data in the public interest, I also think it is natural that, if a certain cost arises from the need to produce a database, some data, a storage space for data that needs to be handed over to a claimant, there is a cost. I think it's acceptable that that cost should be calculated in some way and even included in the system, otherwise this is how it is now. The problem here is double. On the one hand, data providers, data holders like to say a very high and uncontrolled amount of time, energy, human resources and the multiplied value of the data would cost them to compile that data. These are excessive, often millions, by the way. We DK have come into this situation many times, because we live regularly by requesting data in the public interest, and we regularly even take them to court. In the other case, when data request and request can be provided by copying documents that exist on a flash drive or on any other medium, they start printing, then scanning, then reprinting, rescanning, making the substance less meaningful. We know this is happening. In the case of Zsuzsa Hegedűs' poetry, it was just a month ago that they made a lot of things almost unreadable. [[Continue in 170/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Friday, 20 November 2020 170/2. Number Parliamentary Diary So the point is that, if we are talking about electronicisation, if we are talking about online administration, then we could also think that data requests and data requests could be easily solved and then the cost involved should be dealt with so that they also make this possible electronically, and that certain data that anyone can legally request could be provided electronically, and that would not be a cost. One word, like a hundred: the bill contains a number of improvements, a number of positive measures for citizens, but, as I said, we have many, many, many questions, problems, signals in this regard, and I would like to expect the State Secretary's response. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-112	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor for a two-minute comment to Congressman Ádám Hey, from Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-113	Thank you very much. I'll be very short and not 41 or 42, maybe 39 or 3 entry into force... but let's skip this. And I would not respond to the words of Congresswoman Bangón, who has now left the room to see why there are so many laws and salads. I think this is a good sign, because it shows that we are trying to cut red tape with so many laws. I suppose it's important. I'd rather answer Bangóné and Sebian-Petrovsk's suspicions and all sorts of questions about KSH and KSH, not primarily as a Member of Parliament, but as a sociologist who worked quite a lot for KSH, even as a student. I think it's a big problem, and I'm not sure it's the right direction when the expertise of the HCSO is called into question by Members of Parliament. I also worked for KSH when our opposition fellow Members were, where appropriate, state secretaries and I never thought that KSH could be used for their own political purposes, even if they wanted to. I think we should record this. KSH doesn't work that way, KSH professionals work in KSH, and we don't know that either, and that's how it works in KSH whether the professionals working there are right-wing, MSZP, fidesz, dialogueal or any other political orientation. That's all I wanted to say, because my own honor and respect for the sociology profession required. Thank you very much for listening, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-114	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. István György: Yes.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-115	Thank you very much. I really think that the point of the debate is not really 42 or 41. They are absolutely right, it contains 42 lines, it is a provision for entry into force in 42nd, but I do not want to open this debate because it happens elsewhere. [[15.00]] It is true that in most cases it is not just that, but something else is in it. So thank you for your comment, and we do not want to discuss this for a long time. First of all, I would like to say this, and I do not wish to offend a congresswoman, because it is far from my point of view to speak in this style, and it will not be a problem with style, but I apologize, it has declared the law on the reduction of bureaucracy a salad law and that it deals with everything that is possible in the world. That's the point of a bureaucratic law! If you don't understand, maybe you'd better get a little information in this world. We have gathered proposals from government agencies, and they have come naturally from a number of areas. These are not introduced in separate, paragraph 1-2 legislation, but are collected, that is its nature. At the time of Zoltán Kovács' secretary of state, a package of 138 laws came before this House and accepted it when the government made the first real big step in cutting red tape, and then a package came in again, which contained amendments to more than a hundred laws during Tuzson Bende's secretary of state. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Yes... I could say that such bureaucratic laws would not be necessary at all if you had governed them without having to be implemented, because everything would be perfect. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes over the meeting. In the notary seat, Dr. Ádám Steinmetz is replaced by Sándor Szabó.]] You can't put this on the table enough, it's obviously true, and they need to be dealt with all the time. And thank you for your comments on at least certain aspects of the bill. Of course, the real paradigm shift in public administration can be seen in actions that perform electronics in such a way that customers do not need to appear in government windows in person, but can start their affairs from home, and they do not have to go into the office for the result, but receive it by mail. The Prime Minister's Office, together with the Ministry of the Interior, is working on a number of such proposals. That doesn't make me think that 304 government windows are pointless. And I'm sorry to be a bit distraught to reply, but I would like to say to the DK lead speaker, that the fact that an electronic form is being drawn up for 449 cases does not mean that in the government window, by the way, you should not be able to submit a client's motion for this case, either with the help of government-window clerks, or in a way that you can send it to the government window in writing, and that you can start this case, as well as there are local aides in small settlements, who are here to assist customers in the preparation of such submissions. In addition, there are also government window buses, which are also specified in order now every county has a steering window bus running through the settlements, and their task is to help those who can solve them through electronic forms, but because of the lack of family infrastructure, with the help of the KAB buses. And then I'll try to continue to respond to what's been said here. She asked me about the Consumer Protection Act as the lead speaker for Jobbik, why the three years are not customer-friendly, as the five-year period was a greater guarantee, she said to the customers. This proposal is primarily intended to ensure that individual businesses and businesses do not have to keep paper for five years. Several people have indicated this to us that this is a very serious burden, that it must be preserved for long, long years, but this does not mean that they cannot use their warranty rights over the period of three years. This merely means that those documents do not need to be kept for just three years, but warranty rights continue to be in compliance with the legal provisions. I was thinking about the roads, and this is not surprising in a parliamentary debate, because the opposition has a role to play, and the parties of government have a role to play, and they do not want to get out of it, and that is probably the right thing to do. The fact that this amendment is actually about the fact that the roads should only be subject to notification procedure in the future, and not to an authorisation procedure, but to an announcement, that reminds someone of a story as to why this is happening. There are also a number of such procedures in the previous legislative package, which will guide the procedures in such a way that they are not subject to authorisation but are subject to notification. These are all trying to serve the comfort of citizens, and my fellow Members will continue to meet with such proposals in the coming days, which wish to simplify the administrative procedures. In these cases, authorisation procedures should not become notification procedures at all. In fact, now that we are away from everything else, the dirt road has been judged by its professional supporters, government offices, ministries and the Prime Minister's Office, that it falls into the category in which it does not fit, but it is justified that this should not be subject to authorisation procedures, as is the case, for example, with the temporary guideway linked to the railway passage or road renovation, because it will be completed for a few weeks. There is no need to carry out an authorisation procedure there. Or the construction of a road with a maximum of 10 parking spaces up to a maximum of 50 metres; so this is the other reading of this proposal in addition to what you have said. Here is what I would like to say: the announcement of environmental burdens. It reminds me again that one should remember Lőrinc Mészáros and the Mátra Power Plant, of course, everyone has the right to think of anything. This is, in my opinion, an absolutely right thing, and I think that the Member herself did not object to the internal content of the measure, because the real estate register is about getting to know not only the owner of the property but also the burden that this property is burdened with. If it is registered that it is under environmental pressure or that it is subject to an environmental burden, then it obviously also affects its traffic value, so it is essential for civil law to include this information in the real estate register. I don't know if there's any more questions left. I see what I've written, I've answered, so thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the comments that acknowledge that such a package of legislative proposals, such a law and the provisions of this act are, for the most part, aimed at reducing the burden on customers. Everyone in the opposition has a taste for the extent to which they consider the problems they raise. I think this bureaucracy reduction package is absolutely positive. I would also like to ask this House, the honourable parliamentary groups, to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that the amendments were made by 4 p.m. yesterday, so don't bother. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements will follow until closure. The government referral is T/13669. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, once again, we give the floor to Mr István György, Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Secretary of State, please. [[15.10]]
u2020-11-20-117	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before Parliament is the 2017 CXXV on sanctions for administrative violations. The Commission therefore considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In view of the fact that three years have passed since the adoption of the sanction law, I briefly summarise the main features and achievements of the law, which are inextricably linked to this bill. The scope of the law is the Act on General Administrative Rules, Ákr. in the case of infringements, so-called administrative breaches, which may be subject to a substantive decision in the case of an administrative authority, i.e. administrative penalties. There were no uniform principles and methods used to regulate administrative sanctions, although uniform rules are directly linked to the effectiveness of enforcement. The adoption of the sanction law as a framework law has also been a step forward in terms of legality, efficiency, transparency and voluntary compliance, and the framework law on administrative substantive sanctions has replaced decades of legal debt. In the context of the gradual reduction of public bureaucracy from January 2016, the establishment of a single administrative sanction system, the establishment of a sanction law, was specifically aimed at achieving a uniform, transparent and consistent regulation of the general rules of the adverse consequences imposed by public authorities in the course of the administrative procedure, in order to increase the willingness of citizens and businesses to comply with voluntary law. In the course of a change of approach, such as the establishment of a sanction law, the legislator assumed that citizens and businesses knew and respected legislation at the same time. In this context, the role of the legislator is to make its citizens aware that the functioning of the state's authorities is not aimed at making life impossible for citizens and businesses, but, on the contrary, to help and support their development and prosperity. The sanction law therefore represents a customer-friendly approach, the essential element of which is gradual. Accordingly, when committing an administrative breach for the first time within a year, the authority shall, in principle, apply a warning to the client in order to express its disapproval and to call on the infringer to behave in compliance with the law. The primary objective of the warning is prevention, not creating a direct legal disadvantage on the customer's side. Fines can only be imposed by the authority as a result of a subsequent violation. A further pillar of the phasing-in is that the administrative fine will be imposed at a moderate rate if this penalty has not been applied to the client within three years. The Sanctions Act also contains uniform and general provisions on administrative fines, prohibition from carrying out activities and administrative penalties for confiscation and rules on the limitation of administrative infringements. In order to enforce the principle of graduality, it was necessary to establish a register containing, from the entry into force of the Sanctions Act, perpetrators of administrative breaches and administrative sanctions applied to them by the authorities. The register will keep the client's data for three years, in accordance with the provisions of the Sanctions Act concerning limitation periods and the reduction of the amount of fines. Since the public administration has a wide range of administrative sanctioning authorities and the areas of law concerned, and the administrative procedures that led to the imposition of sanctions are highly differentiated, the legislator has made it possible, on several points, to derogate from the general rules of the sectoral law. In the codification process, it was still an important aspect to ensure that the sectoral provisions parallel to the sanctioning law and to Ákr. did not remain in force. Dear House, In order to fully achieve the objective of the legislation described, the revision of sectoral laws was carried out with the involvement of all relevant departments and their comments were summarised in the form of a number of amendments. The amendments to the 88 laws contained in the bill most often concern the exclusion of a warning in certain types of cases, the placing of a warning at the level of the source of law corresponding to the determination of sanctions, the separation of measures, obligations and sanctions in the legislative text, as appropriate, and the repeal of provisions parallel to the sanction law, considerations of discretion, limitation periods. In addition to allowing sectoral law or government regulation to exclude the use of a warning, the Sanctions Act itself provides for cases of compulsory fines. Such is the case where the infringement is a violation of laws aimed at the protection of minors, which violates or endangers human life, health or physical integrity, and where an infringement is committed against a person who is particularly vulnerable. On the basis of the proposal, this list is added to the environmental aspects, as the amendment does not require a mere warning if the infringement has resulted in environmental damage, pollution or environmental hazard. The bill before the National Assembly amends the sanctioning law itself on several points compared to the published norm. The most important and significant change is that administrative bail will be imposed as an administrative penalty. The gradual nature of the sanctioning system will, of course, remain, as a reduced fine will be possible after the warning and then a full fine will be imposed. Dear Parliament, In the event of the adoption of the bill, the sanction law and sectoral laws, as well as the Ákr. Its application together will be ensured, creating a framework for a harmonised application of the law, which I ask you to support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-118	Thank you very much. Here are the speeches of the Chief Speaker, Honourable Parliament. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Ádám Héjj, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the table of the House lies T/13669. CXXV of 2017 on sanctions for administrative infringements entering into force on 1 January 2021 is a draft law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on sanctions for administrative infringements. to establish and amend the sectoral rules necessary for the proper application of the sanction law. Doing all of this is essential to ensure the coherence of the legal system, which, I think, is a very important and unavoidable criterion for the rule of law. The purpose of establishing a sanction law is to implement a single sanction system setting out a uniform, transparent and consistent framework for the general rules on negative consequences imposed by public authorities in administrative procedures. A clear and understandable norm system makes a significant contribution to promoting the enforcement of the law of citizens and businesses. Dear House, The two pillars of the sanction system established by the law, as the Secretary of State said, are gradual and predictable. Graduity, where, on the one hand, it consists of the application of a warning for the first time instead of a fine, within a year and, on the other hand, the first half of the maximum rate of the fine which can be imposed, which is within three years. Predictability in this case primarily means determining the general criteria for weighing in the case of the calculation of the fine. The proposal before us contains mainly technical amendments. Due to the possibility of a derogation from the sanction law, certain sectoral laws exclude the use of a warning as a adverse legal consequence and determine differently the possible duration of the limitation period and of the prohibition from carrying out the activity. [[15.20]] The amendments contained in the bill can be classified into four large groups. The warning, the exclusion of sanctions in certain types, the placing of sanctions at the appropriate source level, whether it be a law or a government decree, the separation of measures, obligations or sanctions in legal texts, as appropriate, and the repeal of provisions parallel to the sanction law, such as discretion or limitation periods. As the Secretary of State said in his exposé, it should be pointed out that the rapporteur put a well-educated proposal on the table of the House, in which they worked together with the relevant wallets. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it necessary to mention that the proposal submitted contains amendments to the laws less relevant to the specific subject matter, in addition to the sectoral legislative amendments which prove to be unnecessary for the application of the sanction law. I would like to present some of these. Chapter XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning According to the amendment of the Act, in the future, instead of agreeing on the local governments of county municipalities, the Metropolitan Municipality and the cities with county rights, the emphasis will be placed on their involvement in the development, implementation, monitoring and implementation of operational programmes containing territorial development and the development and adoption of regional development concepts in the county and capital. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Laws are amended at two points. On the one hand, in order to allow the aid granted in Chapter 9 of the central budget, which includes aid from local authorities, to be modified in the case of an investment already started and, on the other hand, if required by the Government's regulation, to be paid only to the payment account held by the Treasury from EU funds for development purposes, which account cannot be temporarily used for other purposes. Finally, I would like to refer briefly to the amendment of the Animal Protection and Welfare Act. I think that several times, in the last few weeks, the subject has been mentioned in this House, that it is important for all of us to protect our created world and to have ethical, fair and fair treatment of human beings who are vulnerable. This is why it is also appropriate to amend the standards of that law. According to the amendment, provisions on animal welfare fines are regulated in a new chapter, together with new provisions justified under the sanctioning law. In order to facilitate the application of the law, the amending proposal clearly separates administrative sanctions and official measures and obligations. The application of the on-the-spot fine in the case of minor infringements of simple judgement, but no longer liable to sanction the warning, will help to reduce the administrative burden on official procedures, which will substantially increase the capacity to be used for official controls and procedures. It should also be noted that the basic amount of the animal protection penalty that can be imposed will also be determined. Dear House, There is still much to talk about on the very extensive proposal, but I think that the Secretary of State has presented to us with exhaustive detail the essential criteria and the main elements of the draft law. The aim of the bill is, therefore, once again, to amend legislation in the context of the future entry into force of the sanction law that will contribute to the coherence of the legal system. That is why the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group and I call on all my fellow Members to also support the adoption of the draft. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-120	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi is the lead speaker of Jobbik. He can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As in the previous debate, we have a salad law before us, and you are proposing to amend 88 laws, which are laying down measures in the context of the sanction law. When I was working in accounting, I liked it when the tax authorities did not immediately punish me, but first warn me and suggest what should be done differently. And so you have pointed out that this is one of the many changes in this legislation that the warnings will now be put in the background. I believe that punishment and fear of punishment are very important for citizens to comply with the rules that they have, but if we first think about the institution of warning, it can also be useful. I believe that in many cases this is not practical, but the fact that immediately sanctioning people with an administrative fine for an indiscretion may be an exaggeration. I think that the bill before us will cause such changes as it has been said in the speech of my fellow Member Fidesz as a keynote speaker, that, for example, it will undermine the right of county authorities not to have a right to say, but to involve themselves, or to have a right of involvement instead of a right of agreement, which, as far as we can see, is a violation of their rights. I think that there is still something more to be done here, so the Jobbik Group will certainly abstain on this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-122	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-123	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to maintain the country's functionality in the midst of the coronal virus, and it is therefore of paramount importance that Parliament meets continuously and continues its legislative work. As part of this, the Prime Minister presented the T/13669 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on sanctions for administrative offences. Bill No. 1. The aim of the bill, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have said, is that the 2017 XXV on sanctions for administrative infringements that will enter into force on 1 January of next year. In order to ensure legal certainty, new sectoral rules should be established or amended in order to ensure the proper application of the law, in order to ensure a uniform, transparent and consistent regulation of the rules of the sanctioning system and not to increase the level of penalties, but precisely for preventive prevention. And here I would like to refer to what Mrs. Potocska said Anita Kőrösi is a better lead speaker. This bill is the other way around, so it does not apply a fine instead of a warning, but instead provides for a warning for the first time instead of a fine, and for the second time it splits the amount of the fine instead of the maximum fine. I believe that the bill provides a very fair standard on the basis of the principles of gradualness and predictability. Ladies and Gentlemen, Given that, as I said, István György, State Secretary, explained in his exposé and in the keynote speech of my fellow Member David Héjj, I would like to draw your attention to just a few things; first of all, that the proposal contains mainly technical amendments. In addition to the above, the bill also states that Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning In the future, instead of agreeing on the agreement of the county authorities, the Metropolitan Municipality and the municipality of the county-righted cities, involvement will be required in the development, implementation, monitoring and implementation of an operational programme containing territorial development, as well as the development and adoption of the county and capital spatial development concept. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. The bill also amends the law in order, on the one hand, to change the purpose of the investment in the case of support from the central budget, and, on the other hand, to fix, in order to avoid any confusion, that the budget support from EU funds should be paid only to the payment account held at the Treasury and that its use is intended. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-20-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go. [[15.30]]
u2020-11-20-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The recommendation contains amendments to Law 88, which are amended by CXXV of 2017 on sanctions for administrative infringements. It became necessary to harmonise law and other laws with it. At this point, it is important to point out that the CSR. It entered into force on 1 January 2019. Since then, it has been almost two years and the legislation is still not properly aligned with the legislation adopted at the time. Allow me, Mr. Secretary, to say that this is why, after two years, these laws will have to be brought back and settled in a salad law. This shows that the government does not properly prepare legislative proposals in the big legislative rush, and the harmonisation of legislation has not been resolved for years after its entry into force. In view of the high intensity of the proposal, the major amendments are presented below. In the first instance, it is worth mentioning the provisions of the proposal on Gambling Supervision. Instead of imposing a mandatory fine, my fellow Member Vejkey rightly said, this proposal would introduce a weighing fine which is very important for gambling. In addition, the proposal would leave the possibility of a warning, which would only be possible if gambling was organised without a permit. With regard to environmental protection provisions, the proposal is somewhat contradictory. With regard to the amendment of the Mining Act, it correctly excludes the possibility of warning and provides for the imposition of a fine for illegal mining activities. In addition, the duration of the ban must be such that the economic advantage which can be obtained by the unlawful conduct of the activity is sufficiently dissuasive. On the other hand, in environmental matters, the legal institution of the prohibition may be ordered only for a period of time until the obligations necessary to restore the proper activity have been fulfilled. In the latter context, therefore, the proposal does not take into account the economic benefits that can be achieved by continuing the polluting activity. This is a significant contradiction in the proposal. The question also arises: to date, it has been possible to avoid illegal behaviour in illegal mining cases with a simple warning or a short restriction. I hope the Secretary of State will answer that. This is clearly not compatible with environmental requirements. One of the outstanding and forward-looking OSH provisions, we must acknowledge that this is also a very important provision for imposing an on-the-spot fine on the employer. Of course, a high-intensity bill must not exclude a hidden attack on opposition self-governments. The county and metropolitan authorities have so far developed the regional development programme with the agreement of the municipality of the county and the majority of the metropolitan district authorities. On the basis of the proposal, the latter will be drawn up with the involvement and not with the agreement of the former. A similar process can be seen in the case of an operational programme containing territorial developments. To date, the Minister responsible for territorial development has done so with the agreement of the county authorities, the Municipality of Metropolitan City, the municipality of the cities with county rights, and with the agreement of the majority of the metropolitan district authorities. On the basis of the proposal, these municipalities will not have the right to agree, and the Minister will draw up the programme with their involvement. The impact of the provisions is clear: reducing the involvement of opposition authorities in territorial development, reducing the possibility of opposition authorities to express their disagreement. The proposal simplifies very much the registration of a mortgage providing credit institution loans, which will be registered in the future on the basis of the debtor's unilateral debt recognition statement and registration authorisation. The proposal removes some cases where a fine may be imposed under the Consumer Protection Act. The explanatory statement of the proposal states that this is necessary because it is the case. These are already included. It is not clear, however, that these are still mandatory fine cases under the amendment, for example in the case of fines for health-threatening practices, or in order to allow a certain degree of consideration to be given to the new legislation that this fine can only be imposed if a sufficient deterrent effect is expected from the imposition of the fine. The proposal significantly redefines metal trade and the processing of scrap metal, clarifying the legal situation. And one more point that I would like to mention: the proposal also makes changes in municipal image protection issues. On the one hand, it determines that the minimum amount of the municipal image protection fine should be HUF 500 000 and on the other hand it gives the possibility of imposing an on-site fine. This proposal is an eloquent example of poorly prepared government decisions. Two years after the entry into force of a law, the government has to submit an 86-page standard text in order to ensure coherence between the law adopted two years ago and the other legislation. In these two years, the legal situation in a number of administrative cases subject to sanctions was therefore not clear at legal level. This is extremely problematic, since the proposal contains a number of cases where the use of a warning is excluded, such as illegal mining, which raises the question of how many times a warning has been used in practice in cases where it would not have been permissible and a fine should have been imposed. In view of the above, and of course because the county-righted cities and the capital are once again deprived of rights, the MSZP cannot support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-20-126	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, lead speaker of DK. Here.
u2020-11-20-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is indeed a very thick bill before us, here in front of the House, containing 80 amendments to some of the laws. It would be almost impossible to go point-by-point to give an opinion on each point, so I am now taking the approach that I am obviously trying to sum up my criticisms on this in five points. As some of the speakers before me have mentioned, I can already see that there is a significant change in how the warning as a sanction is transformed thanks to this bill. When Parliament passed this law in 2017, in its statement of reasons, János Lázár himself stated, literally, that, first, a warning can be punished only afterwards, whether it be an administrative procedure or not. So it was a new element and a new element introduced in this law the need for this particular warning, which is absolutely understandable, even I say that the concept should be supported behind it. Compared to this, the legislative proposals that have just been tabled will include cases where the application of this warning penalty is excluded from being used in such a passive way, so when the proposal excludes that it should be applicable. We think it's not good, it's not a good part of this proposal. We believe that warning as a method is particularly useful, that logic is particularly good behind it, and therefore these restrictive provisions of this kind are in no way recommended to be adopted by this law, and we do not recommend this approach. At the same time, there is a fork in this, and this is the second point that I would like to talk about, that in some cases we could imagine an approach such as to impose a higher fine, so a more severe penalty is imposed in certain cases, which are affected by the law. For example, these are certain road traffic violations or damage to nature, or just animal protection measures, which Mr Vejkey mentioned, which is included in this. [[15.40]] We believe that the social need in these areas is clear, visible, and I believe that, if we are talking about sanctions, then these sanctions could indeed be considered to make changes and tightening them up. We consider this to be of particular importance. When you are talking about and this is my third comment on the bill that there are certain periods of disenfranchisation and that are defined by the law, it is not very clear in the law how many months or how long this ban is in which sector or profession it is. So I wrote here that while mining activities can be banned for a maximum of six months, their hunters can be banned for five hunting years, or they can be banned for one year from keeping animals. There must be some logic, I must be so optimistic about this, but let us know, Mr. Secretary, what is behind this logic, why this kind of concept or this kind of time definition is not uniform. Then let me bring you the most serious problem. That's my fourth point in the order. This is that, in the amendment of the Real Estate Register Act, to put it simply, this bill outsources data processing tasks related to the electronic real estate registration system by stating that the data processing tasks are included in the law to the extent necessary for the development of the system, the non-State-owned management organisation which develops this system can also perform this. As I said in the debate of the previous law, in all cases where the State collects data, transmits data, processes data, and, in particular, if these are personal or data that may later be used for political exploitation, I would recommend extra caution in a normal country. Surely this raised the question as to why this is so, why this amendment is in the law. I can see now that a month or two after the adoption, we will be reading in the press, or at least I will give you a great chance to find out which non-state-owned economic organization is doing this development, and which, as a private company, will otherwise land this entire real estate registry. Finally, let me say a few sentences about what I did not read in the bill about what could have been read. For example, I would imagine a pass in this sanction law, which would say that if an official inspection did not find fault, it did not find fault with that person or organisation, let us say, for six months the same authority could not investigate; because there is a dual social feeling. One is that, as if the authorities had a tendency to return several times and try to find a way to hold that company or that individual, even if they were subject to the inspection, even if they didn't find anything at the first inspection, in case they found anything at the next one. For example, I would very much welcome such a proposal or such an amendment. Or I could imagine that at the first mistake, let's say, the culprits get a lighter penalty, so to speak, but even more serious than the second or third one. So we'd be a little bit different from the fact that, by the way, it's the first time someone's stumbled, or, for the most part, any kind of check has been found with some kind of deficiency in their operation. Finally, let me put one more idea in here: I wonder how it could be regulated in this law that if more authorities would like to check the same person or the same company, they should do so at the same time. So don't let thousands of companies and individuals experience it when it comes to matters of first control by this authority, then it's over, and in a week's time, a second and then a third. And I didn't assume there was any government or any other intention I'm in a very good mood on Friday afternoon. So, regardless, I could imagine in this law, as the law states, that the number of inspections should be reduced if you want to control the same organization or the same person or company, and then they appear at the same time, then there is an inspection, which is obviously a burden on the person who is under control, but you are once in a while going through this burden and then working and working. In this way, I would like to look forward to the response of the Secretary of State, in terms of these proposals and my criticisms. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-128	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. He asked for a two-minute speech, Congressman Dávid Hey, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Only here in terms of territorial development, the congresswoman said there is a misunderstanding: involvement or agreement. In order to implement partnership planning, the Minister for Regional Development, i.e. the Minister of Finance, shall develop the territorial operational programmes for the period 2021-2027 with the involvement of the municipalities of county municipalities, the Metropolitan Municipality and the cities with county rights. Therefore, they will not have the right to consent ex post, as they were before, but will be involved in the process of drafting, so they will have a continuing right of consultation. I do not think that this reduces, but rather increases, the possibility of county authorities, the Metropolitan Municipality and county-righted urban authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-130	Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-131	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond briefly. One of the things I would like to begin with is that Mrs Potocska, the lead speaker of Jobbik, has indeed said why it is necessary to start with the fine. Congressman Vejkey said that the very point of this law is that it has a gradual nature that begins with a warning, then a fine, then a ban on activity and confiscation, in that order. In fact, it makes it a major rule that it should be warned in the first place. But the law itself states that there are violations of rules that are not sufficiently warned, and that in itself, this law, too, imposes an immediate fine on certain violations or, as a consequence, puts this in perspective where the social situation so requires. The law will enter into force on 1 January 21st, and the proposal now tabled will amend sectoral laws; 88 laws, the result of many long months of negotiations, are what is here before this House. Why this has come here now: the negotiations have been carried out and the harmonisation must take place. It was not the law of the Hungarian legal order, it was born, and therefore this harmonisation is absolutely necessary. It's in front of the House now, and we've just been through the negotiations. In Bangóné's keynote speech, she hoped that illegal mining activities had not been tolerated, but that there was a fine. Yes, that's right, there was a fine to be imposed immediately. That's a little technical, how can I put it? ambiguity, in principle, this law must be warned. But after the warning had to be ruled out, the law applied the technique of bringing it around that which should be immediately fined. This has been the case in the past, and now due to the wording of the legislation, the retroactive conclusion may appear not to have been so. [[15.50]] But he did, only under the general rule as a warning is highlighted by the legislator. Several other contributions were made. Let me also respond to the speaker's comment on the development of the electronic property registration system. I ask the honourable Member not to suspect or wait for some bombastic news in that sense; since I am a State Secretary, I have inherited the electronic real estate registration project, which has been written by the Lechner Knowledge Centre, and has had an entrepreneur, supplier, Tigra Kft. for many years. prepare this electronic real estate registration project. [[László Sebian-Petrovski intervenes.]] In my opinion, one of the most important developments in the last thirty years of the Hungarian administration is under way, because if the real estate register is transferred from a paper base to an electronic property register, it will bring about a revolutionary change. About 70 percent of the Hungarian people's wealth is in real estate. So the fact that this public register should be electronised and that it serves the smoothness of citizens and of civil traffic in such a way as to say, is a fundamental interest. So it's not that people here are thinking about who to give a good greasy bite to. Years ago, this issue was decided that electronic real estate registers were needed and the public procurement procedure was carried out. I myself deal with it several hours a week, I run the strategic working group on this electronic real estate register, and we're going through a number of questions every day about how developers move forward, and the end-user government officials and land officials are also involved in this. So this is an extremely important project, and we hope that the introduction of an electronic property register will bring a very serious and good result. A number of other, or even not many, but a number of other issues and proposals have also been raised. This is a proposal containing the outcome of all negotiations with the wallets, but not only did we consult with the wallets, but also with other bodies, for example, when amending the metal law, the NAV specifically asked for abuses to take place that would require the introduction of strict rules, and this issue cannot be left in the scope of warning, but must be subject to an immediate penalty, and at all costs the whitening of this area must be served by the legislation. This came in at their request, for example. The Banking Association also made comments on mortgage entries in order to ensure the safety of traffic life. Obviously, we can see the world from different perspectives, and we can think of different things, and we have drawn up, to the best of our knowledge, a proposal on the table of this House. Amendment proposals could not therefore be tabled at the previous two, and I do not know exactly how they could have been, but obviously, if they could, or if the deadline had expired, they obviously did so and we will consider them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-132	Thank you. I would like to say right away that the amendment proposals could be tabled by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws necessary for the operation of the National Commercial Register System until closure. The government referral T/13671. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr István György, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-133	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, For years, the government has been committed to implementing measures to facilitate the lives of citizens and to facilitate the work of law enforcement authorities. Over the past years, a number of laws and legislative amendments have been adopted which have been determined to increase citizens' confidence in the functioning of public administrations and to make public administration as a whole more efficient and effective. Programmes to reduce red tape and simplify administrative procedures have all contributed to the state's better functioning. One of the drivers of this reform process is the strengthening of confidence between the state and citizens. In order to implement this approach, the IT systems used to record administrative procedures as well as public and accessible data in the public interest have been reviewed. The outcome of the review is, inter alia, the standardisation of service registers relating to commercial and certain condominiums and properties. Under the Trade Act, who wishes to carry out commercial activities in Hungary, he is obliged to notify his intention to do so to the commercial authority. The commercial authority is a notary of the local government. The records kept by the notary are public, public-credited and must be published by the notary on the website of the municipality in accordance with the provisions in force. According to legal provisions, a central register is currently in operation of the Zala County Government Office in parallel with the notary records under the name of a commercial registration system. This register is national, public, but not public. In addition, in the case of traders and shops, the notary of the local government acts and keeps records for shopping malls, markets, local producer markets and fairs. The district offices, while the notaries of the county municipality of Pest, the chief notary of the county municipality of Budapest, act as the supervisory authority for the business-like management and real-estate asset assessment and intermediary of the real-estate activities, and the notary of the county municipality in Budapest. For the purpose of carrying out these activities, notaries of municipal authorities, district offices and metropolitan authorities also keep separate public records. The data content of official registers, their availability to anyone on the Internet free of charge and free of charge, is regulated by law, but there is a very diverse picture of the availability and presentation of registers. The different registers are currently fragmented and the availability and searchability of the data will take longer. Due to the direct link between the data stored in the register and the simple availability and searchability of the data, as well as the uniform presentation, it is appropriate to remove the fragmentation of the registers and to establish a public-credit central register in a country-wide uniform system instead of many separate public-credit registers, which is separated as service activities within the system. The high number of registers and their diversity already affect, among other things, compliance with the requirements of constitutionally based transparency, the interests of citizens by having significant difficulties in getting to know certain public information on trade on various municipal websites due to the structure and shortcomings of websites; the activities of the administrations controlling traders, after information on thousands of websites, if all municipalities have it, is difficult; and for legislators, because there are opaque, incompatible data available for different impact assessments and decision preparation. In the future, this proposal will help to eliminate all of this by means of the national trade registration system, which is briefly OKNYIR. Dear Parliament, The aim of OKNYIR is, on the one hand, to replace the current commercial registration system with an improved IT system containing up-to-date data and to integrate and standardise data on local level registers into the new national system, thereby eliminating duplication of data and recording in multiple systems at the same time. [[16.00]] The aim of OKNYIR was to standardise a total of ten registers: the register of shops; the register of traders; the register of fairs; the register of markets; the register of local producer markets; the register of shopping centres; the register of house managers, property managers, real estate brokers and property valuer and intermediary service providers. So these ten records are the ones that the OKNYIR has set out to unify. With the implementation of OKNYIR, commercial activities currently independently registered, subject to notification and authorisation and certain service activities will be monitored in a nationally uniform, transparent and efficient system for citizens, authorities and competent organisations. The publication of the data in the register in an appropriate forum and their knowledge by anyone is justified both by the public interest and by the legitimate private interest. With the establishment of the national register, up-to-date statistical information will be available to citizens, authorities and competent organisations on a transparent, easy-to-use interface. The amendment of the laws contained in the bill thus contributes to increasing the confidence of citizens in the public administration and to making the work of law enforcement bodies more effective. The basic rules on the conditions for entry and processing of data into the OKNYIR system are laid down at legal level, including, inter alia, the definition of data in the register and, within the public interest, and public-credit data, as well as the right to access the register, in accordance with the provisions of the GDPR and the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. The proposal also complies with the EU legal harmonisation obligation with regard to the establishment of a national register of real estate intermediaries and property valuer and intermediary service providers. Under Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is necessary to examine, in the course of the procedure for the notification and registration of real estate agents, i.e. real estate agents and property valuers and intermediaries, whether their legal and effective owners fulfil the conditions of business good repute. Accordingly, it has become essential for an entity to supplement the conditions for commercial real estate intermediaries and the pursuit of commercial real estate asset assessment and intermediary activities by introducing a requirement to demonstrate good business reputation, thereby ensuring that the manager or owner of the entity guarantees the cleanliness of business. Dear House, In conclusion, it can be concluded that the bill amending the laws necessary for the operation of the National Commercial Register System is aimed at performing public tasks related to registers more effectively. On the one hand, the new register ensures that citizens using commercial services are kept up to date informed, not least supporting the control activities of the authorities. Increasing the confidence of citizens in public administration and ensuring an adequate level of care for public administration is a priority area and responsibility for the functioning of the State, and the bill will therefore have a positive impact on a significant part of society. In view of what has been said, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-134	Thank you very much. Keynote speakers will be held; first, Mr Péter Ovádi, lead speaker of the Fidesz will be able to speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The one in front of us, T/13671. draft legislation amending certain laws necessary for the operation of the National Commercial Register System by amending the sectoral rules necessary for the proper application of the national commercial registration system implementing ten types of commercial and service registers to ensure legal coherence. Dear House, The IT development for the creation of OKNYIR is entirely based on the, köFOP-1.0.-VEKOP-15-2016-00046. it is carried out within the framework of a project to review and simplify official procedures and enforcement practices. The IT system operator is expected to be the Lechner Knowledge Centre. The establishment of OKNYR made it necessary to review the data contained in the official register of commercial and other service operators and to amend the sectoral legislation for the proper functioning of the system. In the case of registers falling within the competence of the principal metropolitan notary as a commercial authority, as well as as as the notary of the municipal district municipality which authorised the service activity and designated as the authority supervising the service, or as directly managed by the municipality of the capital, it is necessary to clarify the functions associated with the management of the registers in accordance with the introduction of the new national register. It is also necessary to introduce provisions on the disclosure of data in the register from government regulations, given that they are recorded at a legal level in order to avoid parallel regulation. The proposal also complies with the EU legal harmonisation obligation with regard to the establishment of a national register of real estate intermediaries and property valuer and intermediary service providers. According to the legal provisions, a central register is currently in operation of the Zala County Government Office in parallel with the notaries. The aim of OKNYIR is, on the one hand, to replace this non-public-credit system with an improved IT system containing up-to-date data and to make it public-credited; on the other hand, to integrate local-level records into the new national system. The OKNYR also includes the integration of service records on persons engaged in activities related to condominiums and real estate. This means four additional records: the register of persons performing house management services, property managers, real estate brokers and property valuer and intermediary service providers. At the statutory level, it is necessary to lay down basic rules on the conditions for entry and processing of data into the OKNYIR system, including, inter alia, the scope of the data in the register and, within the public interest, and the definition of the right to access the register, taking into account the provisions of the info law, in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the GDPR. Dear House, The IT developments needed to achieve the objectives set out above have reached the final stage. In order to ensure the proper development of the legislative environment, it is necessary to implement the amendments contained in the proposal, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, on the basis of what has been said, in the same way as the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-20-136	Thank you very much. Congressman János Stummer, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2020-11-20-137	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, It will be difficult, however, to say anything new about this bill after Congressman Ovad. I'd probably start with the most important one. Secretary of State, the Jobbik faction will support this bill for the revision of the commercial registration system. This system has been in its present form for several years now, and it has indeed become timely to review the data contained in the official register of operators of commercial and other services and to amend sectoral legislation for the proper functioning of the system. And here, I could finish what I have to say, but I'm not. I would like to talk not primarily about the rules governing the registration of data and the conditions for data processing or other detailed rules that help the effective functioning of the national register, but, taking the opportunity to mention the problems of our fellow Hungarians dealing with trade and the need to resolve them, I would now like to mention a few things. There's a lot of uncertainty in this system right now. We have been moaning this crisis for over six months, but there are still many questions for trade stakeholders about the nature of this crisis. What do we know from the experience of the last nine months? On the one hand, the current crisis is around the 2008-2009 crisis and the XX crisis. It can be compared with the global economic crisis of the first third of the century. The volume of trade is expected to decline by around 10-15 percent globally this year, in 2020. We also know that, as long as the crisis continues, different sectors of trade will be affected in different ways. There are, and there will be, those who are not affected by the plague, and there will be those who are suddenly in a hopeless situation. We also know that the latter question, i.e. who survives and who fails, was greatly influenced and will be the so-called panic purchases, the first of which we ourselves experienced sometime in mid-February, at the end of February. What we do not know is how long this crisis will last, and what dynamics it will have within that period. Thus, the expected development of recovery can be various, but according to the profession, it is likely that it will be the slowest in trade from all sectors. The situation is therefore serious in the commercial sector in Hungary, but it is true that it is changing everywhere. It is changing at a speed that has not been seen for many decades. We don't know who wins, who loses. However, the Hungarian state has a clear task: as many Hungarian traders as possible should be sided with the winners and losses should be minimized. And if the Hungarian state can respond well to these changes, it can strengthen the winners of the change internationally. This proposal will help to make this system more transparent and we therefore support it. Indeed, as the Secretary of State has said, transparency is particularly important in these difficult times. But at the same time, and taking advantage of the opportunity, we also draw the government's attention to the importance of the flexibility criterion. The best way to save as many Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized businesses as possible in the trade sector and bring them to the side of the winners is to provide them with an opportunity and an easy way to change profiles, either by training them or by reducing the administrative burden that is normal at this time, or by providing the capital needed to change profiles. I would like to see the data of the traders who won the national trade registration system, even after this crisis. Do whatever is possible and do your best to achieve this. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-138	Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here.
u2020-11-20-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that Mr State Secretary and my Fidesz fellow Member have made the point of this significant IT development, and that the national commercial registration system has said everything about the establishment of a large database creating the consistency of ten different registers. I would only reply to Congressman Stummer that we are working on this, so let him have the winners of Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises, the merchants, let us be sure that they come out of this crisis, if possible, stronger. Therefore, we have done everything we can and will continue to do everything we can. The current proposal is supported by KDNP. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-140	Thank you. Representative Sándor Szabó, notary of the Parliament, lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here.
u2020-11-20-141	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's a reason the mic doesn't work.
u2020-11-20-142	I would like to ask the congressman for help, because there is no voice in his microphone, and I can see that he put it on. [[Sándor Szabó: Now is good.]] It's okay. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the national commercial registration system is managed by the Zala County Government Office, as has already been said. It is also true that the OKNYIR ten registers, the author, have said that, among other things, it creates the consistency of shops, traders, markets and shopping centres, a national public database, which does not become a public database. The rapporteur also said that the introduction of this was necessary because the review of the data contained in the official register of operators of different commercial and other services activities was justified and that it was also important to amend the sectoral legislation. In addition to the fact that this register is obviously established, there are also substantive amendments to the proposal. For example, the amendment of the law on the rental and disposal of dwellings and premises, which, moreover, states that the construction and the countersignation of documents are not the responsibility of the real estate intermediaries of any of the tasks relating to the procurement and preparation of documents and documents necessary for the conduct of the transactions. The government's position, as the author said, has become essential for businesses to introduce the requirement of a commercial real estate intermediary and of continuing and supplementing the conditions of a commercial real estate asset assessment and intermediary activity, a certificate of business good repute. The other substantive amendment is the amendment of the Houses Act, which contains basically rules on the scope and handling of the data of the House Managers. I would like to point out here that the entry into force of the provisions on the registration of civil servants is postponed only until 1 January 2023. If it is to be summarised, it can be said on the proposal that it basically amends the rules on the processing of certain occupations and services, changes that appear to be of a basic technical nature, but, as I said, there are also substantive changes, see the proof of good repute on real estate intermediaries or the deletion of time limits for the registration of housekeepers. In view of this, the MSZP will develop its voting behaviour in the following days. Thank you.
u2020-11-20-144	Thank you very much. László Sebian-Petrovszki, lead speaker of DK, is next. Here.
u2020-11-20-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to summarise in a few, really, three points what problem, problem, question, dilemma I see about this bill, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State can give me reassuring answers to these. One of the things that the Secretary of State has just said in his exposé is that this proposal brings positive changes to a large part of society. I'm willing to believe that. I just told you that Friday afternoon I'm very forgiving right now. However, we would have liked to have seen some evidence, background study, feedback from professional organisations, so anything that would underpin this view, because we are willing to believe that this is true, but it would also be important to see the feedback of those who will be fundamentally affected by what their professional organisations think about it. I am sorely lacking in this text of the law and its justification. If there were such a background study or any such part of this proposal, it would probably include the fact that the changes, which, for example, immediately at the outset concern the business-like real estate agency or property valuation profession, so the rewording, the question of who can carry on such activity, how much it narrows this market, so whether it affects the current market at large, because it would not be of absolute interest to know that this is merely a minor amendment that is now in the proposal, or perhaps has a more serious impact, will have a more serious impact on the market. [[16.20]] I am asking this because, if I understand correctly, the ban on criminal record is out of the law, so that a person with a criminal record cannot perform such a service and is replaced by a company that has to prove a good reputation for business or that it is a commercial real estate broker or real estate asset valuation activity, but it doesn't seem to me that the other person replacing one fully covers the same category, so to speak. So if something has been forbidden and somehow regulated, the question of who can carry out such an activity, and now wants to do so in a different way with this law, specifically with the practice of proving a good business reputation, how will this resolve or change this particular situation? Not to mention the fact that proof of a good reputation for business is painfully lacking what we mean by that. This is a very fluid category in this bill right now. They may try to resolve this separately, in some regulation, and then I will be very curious about what it is and how it can do so, because it is difficult to grasp it with specific data or concrete facts. But there must be some kind of response from the government, which has submitted this proposal. The other problem I have that doesn't matter is that because it doesn't have that effect, but I'm interested in whether this kind of change in this bill costs more money, so whether it has any cost. Because what we read here in the proposal is very nice and good, how much of all the laws will be modified, but it would be possible to derive from this, at least for laymen, that this requires a bigger thing, a bigger storage, a bigger background, a bigger background work or any development that is not included in the material, but can be derived from the proposals for amendment of the law. I would have made those two comments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[John Stummer applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-146	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said in the debate and on the speeches made by the keynote speaker. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-20-147	Thank you very much. I'd like to react briefly. First of all, I would like to thank the factions that support the bill and all the efforts that the lead speaker of Jobbik expects from the government and the Covid situation. I think the government's goals are entirely the same as what you said. Businesses must be successful, and we must do everything in this difficult situation so that they can receive the support they need to survive this extremely difficult period, which affects not only Hungary but also Europe as a whole, and even many other countries in the world as a pandemic. To this end, we will take measures that include employment grants, wage subsidies or employers' tax reliefs, various tax reliefs, payment deferrals and other government measures, and I could list them. The government will do everything in its power to overcome this extremely difficult situation with as little losses as possible. Thank you again for your support from the factions. I would like to say about the cost requirement that several people have mentioned this Zala County system. For years now, eight government offices have been developing from EU sources in the framework of the European Union's operational programme for public administration development, one of which is the Zala county register. KÖFOP developments naturally make sense if they can replace or apply more complexly than others. I think that I may not have to understand long enough that when every notary has a commercial register, a Hungarian citizen should look through it if he is curious about something, statistical data or anything, although obviously there is less practical need for this, but then it is a hell of a job, he has to collect it from a lot of places. So the part, I think, is quite trivial, is that instead of ten registers or notary records, it is much more reasonable to place it in a national central register, which is also provided with the disclosure of data and access to all those who are interested in this data, or have the obligation to keep it in the register for those who are obliged to do so by law. This requires, inter alia, such an obligation in the case of condominiums, and even gives the right to board assemblies to replace, with immediate effect, a joint representative who does not comply with the legal conditions. In this way, it is the unification of many records that will certainly not be more expensive than before. On the one hand, the development has already taken place from EU funds and, according to the government's decision, a separate directorate is also set up for the operation of KÖFOP projects at the Lechner Knowledge Centre. This is essential, since the eight KÖFOP projects will become virtually pointless without operation. I guess I don't have to explain to anyone that after an IT development there are obviously support needs, there are license fees, there are other operational issues that need to be resolved, helpdesk and more. So this solution is certainly cheaper than ten separate registers and another solution compared to the notary records. Obviously, I cannot say this in summary, but it is quite certain that, in addition to the EU funds that we have spent on this project in Zala County, we do not know about any additional significant expenditure. Of course, the operation of these eight KÖFOP projects will cost money, it is quite clear. There will be a license fee of about HUF 3 billion for the eight KÖFOP projects developed, and all the annual operating costs, which include wages, material and other contributions, I recall that it will amount to around HUF 400 million by setting up a new board of directors. The other solution to this would have been if 118 people in the eight government offices were to perform this task, so that up to 54 people would perform this task. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the proposal to simplify and electronicise civil status procedures and to amend certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/13670. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. We'll wait for the Secretary of State to switch seats. I'm gonna need you to tell me the motion. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill before us has been drawn up in order to meet the two main demands that modern times have put before administrative procedures: simplification and electronicisation of procedures. The proposal to amend the civil status procedures and certain related laws will continue the approach that the government has been unbroken for years in order to cut red tape and achieve a more transparent public administration. This time, we want to change an administrative area that will accompany the lives of all people from the beginning to the last moment. [[16.30]] The provisions of the bill concern primarily registration, which has a very rich tradition in Hungary. State, or no longer ecclesiastical registration, was introduced in 1895 and I can tell you that it was also a significant milestone compared to 2014, which was the launch of the electronic registry system, EAK. Prior to that, registration was on paper, and since then it became an electronic register; four such registration events are recorded in this system: birth, marriage, registered partnership and death. After 2014, the registration of civil status has ceased, instead the registration has become person-centred, creating unhoped opportunities, such as making family relationships transparent by linking the data of family members, so we think that a serious development of the 125-year-old state register has been achieved in recent years, and we would like to continue to do so. In 2014, we started with an empty register, which is constantly subject to a case-by-case implementation of the full data content of the paper registrations, thus uploading the data of the persons. At present, 8 899 444 persons are recorded in the system's personal register, almost 6 million birth events and almost 19 million entries. So we're constantly uploading the system, it's constantly coming to life, it's getting more complex, and the time has come, and we think that by keeping the foundations of the system, we're going to start making new improvements. If we look at the Civil Procedure Act, it can be concluded, after a brief review, that, given the personal nature of the cases, the possibility of electronic administration is so limited that it is almost exceptional in the registrar procedure, but, in keeping with the challenges of our time, we would like to extend this scope in this bill as far as possible in the area of registrar administration. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the legal basis for the electronic initiative of civil status events, such as the modification of the form of marriage name, nationality naming, the change of the first name named as a new procedure, and the change of name, will be established. In addition, in the future, not only will the electronic application for their birth certificates be made available to citizens, but we can also conduct this from home as a legal representative or proxy. In particular, I would like to highlight the procedure for amending the so-called marriage name-holder form in accordance with the civil code marriage rules, which already supports well-functioning IT solutions in the electronic register. Taking advantage of this, it will be possible to ensure that applications can be dealt with within 24 hours in the form of automatic decision-making. The bill also places great emphasis on rationalising procedures related to the use of personal names, as only the change of name requests generate thousands of cases each year with the civil servants. By 31 October 2020, a total of 4529 applications for names were registered in the electronic register, of which the procedures for changing the family name were the most significant, more than 2,300 of them, more than a thousand first name changes, and combined procedures were available in the order of 600-700. I have already spoken about it for a mention, but I would like to add a few points to the procedure for amending the first name, which, following the amendment before us, would add to the scope of the registration procedures, so this would be a new procedure, although, of course, it is not a new need and a change of data content. In the bill, we want to bring this procedure back as a simplified name change, and we want to refer it to the registrar's authority. This will allow persons with more than one first name to leave one of the first name or to reverse the order of the first name in the context of the first name change. In view of the fact that new names are not being authorised here, but are already being amended, it is therefore not appropriate to consider that this need for change should be dealt with only under a higher levying obligation and a longer term of administration under the so-called classic name change procedure. If we stay in the area of name change procedures, I say once again, this range of first name changes would be avoided, there will be further simplifications here. This simplification also affects the customer and government office page. We would like to propose the issue of a change of name document, which currently involves a great deal of administration for the authority. In the same way as a number of other authorisation procedures, the authorisation of a name change can fully fulfil its function in the form of a decision, i.e. in the form of a simple official decision, and the removal of the additional tasks of the authority in relation to the management of the name change document will speed up and reduce the negatives in terms of financial expenditure and will have a positive impact on the administration process. This amendment also contains forward-looking provisions concerning nationalities, which aim to enable persons belonging to nationalities to exercise their rights to bear nationality names more effectively. It is a prerequisite for these persons belonging to nationality to have easier and up-to-date access to the national first names drawn up by the national minority authorities. The bill would make this mandatory, since this requirement does not apply at the moment or only partially, and makes the publication of nationality names a task for the national national minority self-government, while at the same time determining its precise scope of data. The registrar administration covers a wide range of legal areas and sectoral rules. The bill also contains amendments to other related laws, such as the Civil Code, which extends the marriage name-taker's choice, which in some cases removes the need for a separate procedure to change the form of marriage name-holding. A small clarification of the Hungarian citizenship law is necessary in order to properly prepare the oath of citizenship, the amendment of the so-called Szl. law, i.e. the Act on the Registration of Personal Data and Addresses is justified in relation to the obligation to notify. A large part of the amendments can be implemented in practice following IT developments, and then become part of everyday life, so in the proposal we would define the phased entry into force of the law over a period of nearly a year and a half, and in the meantime the amendments that we can already put into effect will be brought forward. The development of the bill was preceded by the practical experience and observations of directors and the metropolitan and county government offices designated as civil servants, and it is successful on a number of enforcement issues, I believe, to find reassuring solutions for everyone. We see that a more transparent, coherent regulation that will also improve the work of law enforcement and clients in this area, which, I say once again, at least two times, is decisive in the lives of all of us in the case of birth and death. Thank you very much for the floor. I ask for the support of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, lead speaker for the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-151	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State said, the state register goes back to 1895 and started on 1 October of the year. Until the introduction of the electronic register, i.e. until 1 July 2014, the registration was paper-based. [[16.40]] The birth registration event, such as birth, death, marriage and registered partnership, was at the centre of the birth register. Usually, the event was registered and registered where the event took place. The electronic registration, i.e. in short, EAK started with an empty register on 1 July 2014, and the continuous uploading of data and recording of personal data started overnight with the switch from paper-based registration. Since the introduction of the EAK, the register has been kept only electronically. This has made the register personal. At the same time, the EAK does not include all registered entries since the introduction of state registers, while more and more persons are being uploaded to the system. Year after year, for example, the number of name changes increases. The average number of these cases before 2014 was around 3500, with nearly 5,200 cases in 2016 and nearly 6,500 cases in 2019. This is partly why the time has come for amendment and development, which is why we have this forward-looking bill. In recent years, the number of procedural acts is increasing more rapidly, which can also be done electronically. I believe that the importance of this is not neglected in the current epidemiological situation. It is becoming increasingly appreciated and evident how much electronicization makes the situation of people easier, as well as the procedures and procedures. The aim of the bill is to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and public authorities, and to extend the scope of electronically dealt with cases. The proposal is also aimed at addressing legislative and interpretation anomalies in the field of civil status administration. I would not like to repeat the amendments listed by the Secretary of State, but I would just like to highlight a few of them. Such an amendment, which is forward-looking, is an amendment to the Hungarian citizenship law. This rationalises the right to change the venue of the client's oath. This is allowed once in a while by the amendment. The purpose of the amendment to the law on civil status is double. On the one hand, it simplifies procedures and, on the other hand, extends the scope of electronic procedures. For example, the registrar of the Metropolitan Government Office is responsible for the procedure for changing the matrimonial name and the registration procedures are supplemented by requests for a change in the first name. Or I could say that, in view of the parent who holds Hungarian and foreign citizenship, a first name can be registered to the child in accordance with foreign law without proof of the child's foreign nationality. I've just given you a few examples without the need for completeness. And one more thing that would be worth looking at from the point of view of people with disabilities, and this is the question of expanding the electronic handling of issues and procedures. The amending proposal sets out further elements in this area. To date, only the electronic application of the birth certificate has been possible in relation to civil matters. According to the proposal, the following procedures will be possible by electronic means if the Parliament adopts the proposal: to amend the form of matrimonial naming according to Ptk. and to apply for nationality names, first name changes, name changes, legal representative and proxy. In these matters, which are common in everyday life, electronic administration will be possible in the future. As I said, people with disabilities, such as our deaf or wheelchaired friends, will have a much easier life if they can handle their affairs electronically. I think it is worth looking at this proposal with such glasses. I urge the government to take this into account in future further reforms of the public administration. Digitalisation, electronicisation, has almost only positive benefits for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this proposal is worthy of support. In the name of the Fidesz fraction, I support it, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-20-152	Thank you both very much. Now, the lead speaker of Jobbik, Congressman Gergely Kálló, may speak. Here.
u2020-11-20-153	Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, I would also like to state that we will support this bill. It is a very positive observation on my part that they actually conducted consultations with the civil servants before putting this bill on the table. I have done this myself, and I bring the message from the civil servants: thank you very much for consulting them. Many positive changes are included in the proposal. It is a fact and a fact that it simplifies the system, simplifies the whole system, and we are very happy with all the digital activities, thus simplifying the name change, keeping it in place and other things like that. However, given the fact that we have actually consulted with the registrars, let me make a few criticisms, which I hope the government may consider and accept. First of all, I want to talk about the EAK. The EAK system has been really liked and loved by the civil servants since 2014, but let's not forget that EAK also reported extra work to the civil servants. While in the districts of Budapest there may be eight or ten civil servants in a municipality, in the countryside, in the larger cities they say that at least two civil servants must be kept. At the same time, let us not forget that a local government in general, and this really is not a budgetary criticism or anything, can actually keep two minimums. With the introduction of EAK, additional work has also been made despite the fact that the leaders of the registers love the EAK system, but they are not always able to provide additional resources or additional workers for this additional work. [[16.50]] It should be considered that the government may be able to provide assistance to the municipalities in order to assist the civil servants with additional work resources. In particular, we can talk about extra-work resources in settlements that are not large settlements, but still have a hospital. A hospital places extra work on a registry manager, because they are born there and people die there, and it is not certain that they are all local residents who are born there and are unfortunately dying there. Therefore, these are extra work for local administrators. If the government could ensure that additional resources are provided exclusively for this purpose by the municipalities, we could ease these burdens. It should also be said about EAK, and I have also discussed this with a registrar that EAK is considered to be a very good thing, but they resent or miss that EAK does not have a good marketing, does not have a very good advertising. In many cases, many do not know about the existence of EAK, even though they praise the registrar because he simplifies the work. They want a little more marketing, a little more fuss for the EAK, so that the offices know that such a system exists, in this system they can make the work and the existence of ordinary citizens much simpler. There is another comment on EAK. With regard to EAK, it would also be easier if they could not touch it, but they could gain insight into Hungarian state bodies, such as the court, the police. This could make their work easier. Again, they shouldn't touch it. They shouldn't touch it, but it might be worth giving these bodies access. We can go back to the fact that now this new bill can also give the registry the right to issue an ID card, which is once again an extra job. So again, we should assign an additional source to this proposal. Finally, let me tell you frankly, I do not necessarily agree with the opposition position in such debates that we should now throw everything at the government. But if you're gonna talk about marriage, and if you're gonna talk about marriage, just let me remember one thing, this is a very old Jobbik program. I trust, and I really do not say that I am reading well into the national Christian government, but I trust that the national Christian government will consider this and will forget the nasty word secularization. I would like to ask that young people and not young people, anyone who wants to get married, face their first marriage, make it easier for them. We find it a bad method and practice that a beginner couple has to say yes twice. Once, if they want a church wedding, they want it in the church, and once in front of a registrar in the local government, in the office. We think it's a bad method. I would also like to say to the possible left-wing criticism that this does not mean that the state is involved in the church or that the church is involved in the state. The church has already undertaken tasks that are state tasks, whether I am thinking of orphanage or of teaching. We consider it a thing, a bad thing, a bad practice, to be sworn in before the state, and to be sworn in before our church, according to the religious religion. I think that if there is a will to do so, then this thing could be done. This could be put into practice in such a way that it doesn't harm anyone's interests. I think it's a practical thing. It's an individual decision, not a state decision, not a church decision. If I think that I would like to say a happy yes just once, in front of God, then we should give it the opportunity, whether we create it, because it is the income of the civil servants or the municipalities. But I believe that there are those who, with a Christian spirit, would do so to get into a church and accept the two yeses with the state involved and the state accepting it. I think that would be a relief. Since this draft law is here, I repeat, we will support you again, despite one or two of your mistakes, and I would like to send it to the government for consideration, so that we can include it, and also ensure that it is possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2020-11-20-154	Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here.
u2020-11-20-155	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to maintain the country's functionality in the context of a coronal virus epidemic, which is why it is of paramount importance that our Parliament is meeting and continuing its legislative work. As part of this, the Prime Minister presented Bill 13670 on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and the amendment of certain related laws. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the bill is, on the one hand, to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and authorities and to extend the scope of matters that can be dealt with electronically, and, on the other, to address questions on the legal basis in the field of civil status administration. In view of the fact that Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary's exposé and the lead speaker of Fidesz, my colleague Gergely Tapolczai, also discussed the bill in detail in his speech, and I therefore wish to explain the following. The aim of the bill is to simplify and speed up the procedure for changing the marriage name from the metropolitan government office, and to add the first name amendment procedure to the register procedure. Therefore, in the future, for a child with Hungarian and foreign citizenship, parents may request that the name of the child be changed to register a name in accordance with foreign law without confirming their foreign nationality. In addition, the bill requires national national minority authorities to publish the first nationality register in electronic form and to keep it up-to-date in order to make it more effective. The bill will do this by making these civil status procedures electronically available in the future, with the exception of a change in the name of a minor child. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-20-156	Thank you very much. Congressman Sándor Szabó, head speaker of the MSZP, here you go.
u2020-11-20-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the proposal contains a comprehensive amendment to the civil status procedures. Its entry into force is continuous, in fact, stepwise, until 1 January 2023. The law contains a wide variety of amendments. The introduction of a procedure to amend a first name, a change in the form of marriage names in a simpler procedure, and a list of what is eligible in the proposal should be approved. An outstanding element of the proposal since the introduction of the electronic registry system has been addressing the situation that has been unpleasant for many people, typically when the death is registered, with the change of marriage name. This new legal institution is trying to address the situation that became known after the divorce, when it is found that the spouse was entitled to bear a different birth name than that contained in his marriage registration and on the basis of which the spouse bore his name. If the registrar actually detects a data discrepancy, he can now act on his own initiative. Professional success may only be reduced by the fact that this pass, which will enter into force, will be brought into force only on 1 January 2022. Maybe we should move this forward. However, the set of arguments used to justify the proposal clearly reveals the overload of the registrar, the whole range of bureaucratic procedure steps, the slow and cumbersome handling of cases in many cases, the windmill fight with deadlines, unfortunately this. Obviously, the procedures should be simplified. I think the government has yet to take action on this. [[17.00]] It is clear that in many cases the 60-day administration deadline will be extended to 75 days, but even this may not be enough. It also turned out that the previous legislative madness, which generally ruled out the possibility of an appeal against the decisions of the civil servants, did not work. It shows well that the proposal aims to strengthen the role of civil status bodies designated as the supervisory body of the civil servants, giving them greater insight into the registrations of the civil servants acting in their respective fields of competence. So, as I said, the proposal basically continues to amend in a number of cases, introducing eligible amendments for a large number of cases, the parts that can be criticised and the elements that are mainly related to the administrative procedure. The MSZP will determine in the following days that its voting attitude will move towards abstention or support. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-20-158	Thank you very much. DK's lead speaker is Mr. László Sebian-Petrovszki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, we are discussing a proposal that contains the electronicization and simplification of civil status procedures through many, many points. I have already said it today in the debate of another law, and it belongs here, and I am obliged to say it here, too, but I am happy to say that when we use any procedure to electronicize, any administration that has so far required personal presence, we move it to an online world, it always has our support, it is always good, always positive. Of course, I put it in another debate just now, so, of course, we can't always get away with it being personal. We think that most of it can be transferred to an online world, and that is what this bill or proposals are trying to do. So I think that this is definitely eligible. It can also be seen that this can have a positive impact on the large masses of citizens. While there are no figures in the proposal, we do not know how many people in each category are affected by these changes, here the Secretary of State has given some data, but it is clear that there will be citizens or citizens who will benefit from this change. And therefore, what I often say is the essence of a law, or of a law amendment, I think the essence of it would be to improve the area, to better serve as a way for citizens to move forward or work out, and if a law points in this direction, it is definitely positive and to be supported. That's what this is all about. And that is what the simplifications in the second point, which have been said here by the speakers before me, have served. In a number of cases, the procedure will be much simpler, and again I say that this is positive, and it is a good side of the bill. With regard to criticisms, or not to criticize, I would rather say that the problem with the substance or the proposal for me is that I do not see a sum of the changes in this, but I am sure that the Secretary of State will be able to respond to this in his reply. So we understand that in certain procedures, the directors of the civil registers will have less burden, but we also see that in changing certain procedures, we are moving tasks, such as the marriage name change process, if I understand correctly, to them now. What I'm interested in is that, while the government has asked professional organisations accordingly, and the speakers before me have supported this, however, how this appears at the level of the civil servants, I am very absent from this bill to find out, so whether the pluses and the minuses, the burdens and the facilitations in total then represent more of a task, more of a burden on the civil servants or not. The truth is that the other one is a negative comment, but let's just say that this is the least of the problems in this story and in our day, but a good part of the signs that came to us about it from the birth registry leaders were that they had already indicated a good part of them. In other words, it is not about solving new things or problems that have arisen in recent months, so one of them was eager to make some sort of modification in one or two of these cases. So the reaction time has been criticised by the voices that have come to us in connection with this bill, but I say this is the least of the problems in fact; the point is that, overall, this proposal is forward-looking and positive. The only question I have is that it now places fewer or more burdens on the civil servants in general. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-20-160	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing nationalities, so I give the floor to the Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2020-11-20-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U ime Odbora za narodnosti u Maddarskoj i u svoje ime Vas s poštovanjem pozdravljam! Mr President, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and on behalf of myself, I welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/13670, on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and on the amendment of certain related laws. On 16 November 2020, the Council discussed bill No.3 at its meeting on 16 November 2020. The legislative proposal as a whole is aimed primarily at simplifying and thus speeding up the registration procedures and facilitating the more efficient provision of tasks for law-abiding people. Six years ago, July 2014 the e-book was introduced, which helped to give electronic administration space in the registrar's administration. With the introduction of the EAC system, registration of civil status events is carried out only electronically, eliminating the registration of civil status events per civil status event and territorially structured registration. With the bill before us, we have once again taken a step forward in the effective exercise of the right to national naming. The right to name is a fundamental right derived from human dignity, since every person has an inalienable right to his own name, expressing his identity, and bearing it. But it wasn't always like that. The 125-year-old state registration has caused difficulties and pain to many nationalities before the current legislation that their traditional family or first name was not included in the basic documents in a written form and sound that would have fit the person concerned at the time of the event on which the registration was based. Or remember the psychological and historical aspect of naming from the distraught periods of history, when, for example, the Hungarian Swabians bearing the German-sounding name experienced the evacuation. Declaring the right of nationality to name was a huge step forward for nationalities in Hungary. According to the current legislation, nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their own names in their own language. On this basis, they may apply for the registration of the child's family name in accordance with the rules of the nationality language and may provide the child with a first name corresponding to that nationality; they may apply for the registration of the corresponding first name of nationality instead of the registered family name; they may apply for the registration of the family name, the first name and the first name of the child in the relevant nationality language or in the relevant nationality language. For us nationalities, that part of the amendment of the law is perhaps the most important, which ensures easier access to the provisions related to nationality naming and the first naming list of nationalities, and thus allows more effective exercise of the right to nationality naming. [[17.10]] For this purpose, the amendment requires the national minority self-government to publish and maintain the national minority first name list in electronic form as from 1 March 2021 and sets out its content in a uniform manner. The content is as follows. The first name of nationality that can be entered in the Hungarian register, the fact that the given first name is a female or a male name, the first name of nationality with the letters of the nationality language, if the first name of nationality contains a letter not included in the Hungarian alphabet, the rewriting with the letters of the Hungarian alphabet, if any, the Hungarian equivalent of the first name of nationality. In connection with this regulation, I share the following with you. On the one hand, the amendment will result in significant additional work for national minority self-governments who have so far only had a paper list and a register, but also for those who had a digitised first-name list, but not with the data content required under this draft law. National authorities should draw up the electronic register with mandatory content elements. The first name book of national and ethnic minorities was published in 2004, but it was not updated. The publication is protected by copyright, which the ethnic communities do not have, so its use or publication in a digitised form entails significant costs. The digitisation of the nationality first name book, the adaptation of complementary data content in accordance with the legislation, and the inclusion of names on the list during the period since the publication of the first name directory, the update shall be carried out at an accelerated pace to ensure that the date of entry into force can be maintained. If there is no digital data publication, then there is little time for manual compilation for about three months. Despite extensive work, I welcome this measure, because I believe that it will also significantly reduce the administration of the registration period, since the use of the nationality first name available from the website will be easier for both the civil status body and those belonging to the nationalities for the future. With this proposal, the exercise of the right to nationality names will become more effective. The other area, which may raise a legal problem in the area of nationality naming, is the birth certificate law 46. § 4 of the present amendment, which is not affected, but for the future, I think we should speak on this issue. According to the legislation in force, the status of the nationality name and the nationality first name not included in the nationality first name list is governed by the position of the national minority self-government concerned. With regard to the first name of nationality not included in the first name of nationality, the registry administrator or the registry body shall contact the relevant national minority self-government, which shall give its position within 30 days of the request. The first name, the registration of which has been approved by the national minority self-government concerned, shall be entered in the nationality first name list. The problem is that it is quite common today that parents do not wish to give their children the name in the first name list, and of course those belonging to nationality are no exception. In the case of a non-national name choice, if the chosen name is not on the first name list drawn up by the Institute of Linguistics, the data subject may, in the manner laid down by law, request a declaration on the registration of the requested first name with the assistance of the registry body. The Institute of Linguistics shall make a statement within 30 days of the request of the civil registration body, and if the first name can be registered according to its declaration, it shall immediately enter it in the first name register. With regard to nationality names, there is only one derogation that, in the case of a name not included in the register, the registry manager or the registry body will contact the national minority authority concerned, which position shall be given within 30 days of the request. The first name, the registration of which has been approved by the national minority self-government concerned, shall be entered in the nationality first name list. However, a first name that is not included in the official first name list in the mother country may be registered on the basis of the decision of the national minority authorities. While the Institute of Linguistics has a 14-point guiding principle for drawing up the opinion of the requested names, the national national minority authorities do not have such a standard of principles, since so far this question has not been raised. Following this amendment, the first name list will be available on the website of each national government, so it will be immediately available to anyone, even the motherland bodies. In order to avoid a debate for the future on the possibility of registering a name that is not used in the mother country, for example, by the decision of a national minority self-government, I would consider at least one principle definition to be important. In my view, a reassuring settlement of this issue must be carried out. It will therefore also be a task for nationalities to be able to carry out their activities according to uniform and appropriate principles in the future, whether not provided for by law or other legislation. We also welcome the will to make changes favourable to nationalities, which will ensure the possibility of electronic administration and contact, as so far the birth certificate law has provided for the possibility of electronic administration and electronic contact in a very narrow manner. CHAPTER XXI It is appropriate to extend the scope of electronic request procedures in the 20th century. It is also easier for the legal representative and the proxy to submit the electronic application in the future. Overall, the legislative amendment proposal before us simplifies and accelerates the registration procedures by amending the rules of competence and procedural rules, and establishes a legal framework for the electronic initiation of procedures on request. These amendments will certainly help to ensure better performance of tasks. It is my hope and the hope of the nationalities that the procedures in the so far advanced minority language will become more smooth, due to the reduction and training of the burden of civil and civil servants. We are confident that the transparent legislative framework will remove the problems of interpretation so far in the procedures for nationality naming. In view of this, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary proposes the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-20-162	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Congressman Gergely Kálló, Jobbik. Here.
u2020-11-20-163	Dear House, I'm sorry I asked you to speak again. I'm really trying to be brief, but I forgot one thing. In the general justification of the bill, it is indeed mentioned that we are talking about a 125-year-old civil status system, and if we are already talking about birth-book leaders, I have to mention one more thing in connection with this law. This is that in many cases there are 125-year-old basic documents in the municipalities, which are to be protected and kept dry by the civil servants and the municipality. These are really documents that deserve attention because of our history. I feel, or feel, that they're a little left alone in this, too. So it would be good if we could say in general that the government also pays attention to the preservation and preservation of these documents. Allow me one more thing. I don't know if it's registrar's day. It is possible that we should think about it, and I am sure that there would also be consensus in this respect between the governing parties and the opposition, in order to choose a day of the year that is about the civil servants and gives respect to the civil servants. [[17.20]] After all, the Secretary of State said: "Birth, death and wedding," so these are three important things that we can remember, and I suggest that we remember the leaders of the registers in one of these. Thank you very much, I've just made an addition.
u2020-11-20-164	Thank you very much. There will now be further speeches by Members. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The birth certificate, although not called that for a very long time, may be the oldest register from the beginning of human history when they began to record the data of people born. And you might think that if this was naturally important at the beginning of mankind, that a small line, or in some way a stone-carved signal, may have indicated the birth of a child, you would think that, when there was already literacy and book and all sorts of technical possibilities to start keeping the general register, you would think that this had happened fairly quickly. Imagine, fellow Members, no. It took a great deal of time for the first register to be introduced under the aegis of the church, and Hungary was not so far behind in that order, because the Catholic Church in the Council of Trent in 1563 expressed the need to keep a general register of birth, baptism, marriage, and death, and in this way it became common in Hungary, and by then almost everywhere in Europe. By the way, we would think that if the church had organised this in this way, then very quickly the officials and state leaders of the various states were also trying to do so. But no, it was held very strongly by the church. After the Catholic Church, of course, the Reformed Church, and the other churches started their own registration system, so it was not yet possible to call it a general birth certificate. But all of a sudden, it's the 19th. By the end of the 20th century, when the churches were starting a catfight with each other, I would say today, György Szapáry said that it would be good to introduce the state register, the general one, because it would be better. And then it became so from 1 October 1895 after a very, very serious struggle, because both Ferenc József and the Vatican protested against having a general register in Hungary. In fact, from the moment the state system of registration was born in Hungary, this work was accompanied by continuous progress, but the fact is that the largest step in the system of registration, or the most necessary step, came with the globalised world. There's an extremely serious population migration in the world, and a citizen is born in one country, and then he and his parents move to another because of work, and then he meets a girl or a boy, and then he moves to a third, and then he gets a job in a fourth country, and then his kids start to be born there, but they move. So in today's world, in 20 years, a person can actually turn into a lot of jurisdictions, while his personal status doesn't change, he only marries, he has children, and his life is accompanied by the birth registration made in all countries. I welcome this proposal, rather than have criticism, but a slight sense of absence, but my sense of absence is highly specific in terms of professionalism, so it is not possible to expect anyone involved in this type of legislation to take these specific questions into account and try to find answers. I'm very glad, because as a lawyer, I've been in a lot of procedures where there was only a foreign document available to register or move on, so to move forward requiring a birth certificate, and I had to go to the translation office for a lot of money, to translate virtually data that was about numbers and names. However, in today's world, the knowledge and knowledge of administrative administrators extends to the extent that a passport or a foreign, whatever kind of supporting document, which is very simple, of general language and of short content, can judge the data it contains, and fortunately, 4. § now dissolves the need for an official translation of all foreign documents. It is also a very interesting and truly novel thing, and many do not even think about the situations when two different citizens are parents of a child, how the birth certificate is conducted. It has been quite complicated so far in Hungary, and the situation where the mother is the Hungarian and the father is the foreigner, is relatively simplified by the new process or the new procedure, but if the father is the foreigner and the mother is the Hungarian, there will still be some complications there, although the legislation tries to be very caring or helpful, but sometimes the parties have to struggle in this. The situation has already been changed by the legislator in order to bring an appeal against civil status decisions. I have to say, as a lawyer, I wasn't surprised because registration is not a meaningful decision. It's not like they asked me to make a decision on a case, and then it's up to my discretion to tell the truth to one or the other. However, it is an official register in which an appeal could also be lodged in certain cases, but there is always a right of discretion for that administrative professional to grant that right to someone. However, when a person is married, born, and changed his name, there is a completely different type of case, and I do not think it should have been an appeal, but it is true, and it was not the responsibility of the civil servants, but it was the responsibility of the legislation that the conditions of life became extremely complicated, and the legislation of the civil registry could not follow this complexity and its rhythm. And there were many times before the registrars had a situation where the law itself did not answer the particular situation, and he had to be trusted to make the decision in the particular situation, and it was in this case that he made the wrong choice. The more powerful supervisory activity will at most serve to ensure that the registrar's responsibility remains, but his concern that he might make a wrong decision in a specific case will remain at least less. Instead of a name change document, there will be a certificate of name change, which, in fact, I think is just a change of name, or I am very pleased that it is not only determined that the last name can be one or two, but it also determines for me that a Hungarian citizen born in Hungary, born from Hungarian parents, should have a last name with a maximum of two members. So I do not regret this either, although I very much welcome the fact that I do not know whether there is a country where there is such a liberal birth certificate, as in Hungary, a child born in a foreign family, born from a foreign country, who is registered in Hungary as Hungarian, keeping the original parent culture, can practically keep the name bearing there, both last name and first name, and the Hungarian authority will not prevent him from wearing it if there are more surnames or more first names of children from a foreign family. I'm very glad that you can register up to two first names, or, if you've had more, you have to make a statement about which two you choose. I know, of course, that a parent would want his child to be special, and he even distinguished me from the others in his name, but when I heard that they gave children three or four first names, I would always think that parents should first sort out their psychic situation with themselves. [[17 .30]] So I am pleased that this legislation sets a limit on this. It's a matter of first name change. I am very pleased that it will be possible to change the only first name in people's hands and become an opportunity in general. I have to say that every year academic decisions are issued about new acceptable first names, and when I last saw this a few weeks ago, I said to myself that there are more and more cases where children have to be protected primarily from their own parents, because they give first names that, I think, make it very often more difficult for children to find their way to social life and do not make it easier for them. There are large quantities and wonderful names in Hungary that can be given to children, and I think that those who cannot choose from them are quite peculiar to me, but whatever. The point is, the first name change system is a welcome one. In the past, it seems to me that I hope that there has not been a very serious social debate out of the carelessness of the fact that the legislator introduces the term "no" in the register. Previously, it was only that the....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A lot of people have said that this will mean that if someone's personal situation is such that they have to change sex in their lifetime, then because of the fact that they have to introduce a gender in their birth certificate, this will be an obstacle. In each register, even if a person buys or buys real estate, the name of his birth must be entered in the official name. These things are very important because there are people, for example, as a result of marriage, women, and then divorce, and then another marriage, so that a woman can have four or five names in her life, and if she has legal dealings in her former life, then, in order to follow her somewhat, that this is the same person, it is a natural consequence of official administration, so that her first birth name should also be registered. In this way, when a person is faced with a state of the person, it may be necessary that the gender of birth is originally defined in the register, because, of course, later, if there is no change in the register by means of appropriate legal procedures and after issuing appropriate certificates, then it will be introduced into the register, but still, thank God, his options will not cease to change with regard to the sex of his original birth. And then I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to an important question, which is because I am very pleased that my fellow Member Gergely Kálló raised the question of considering giving the courts a legal opportunity to see and retrieve data in a personal register in some way. I'd like to tell you a specific situation, and it actually happened to me, so it's a pretty authentic story. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán is talking to Miklós Soltész.]] I'm sure you all know there are many times when a party sued or sued dies in a lawsuit. When the plaintiff dies, there is virtually no problem, because his successor will continue to sue, since it is in the interests of the applicant's successor, but when the defendant dies, the successor is not in any interest to be sued as successor of the defendant, so it is the case that, until the proceedings of his successor are completed, the case cannot be brought. I haven't been able to finish a lawsuit in eight years because the defendant is dead, and his family refuses to proceed with the probate procedure. If the courts have the opportunity to see in the personal records where they can see who the deceased is or who his wife is, then by receiving this information from the register, they can communicate it to the applicant and continue to sue the successor. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán is sitting in his seat talking to Lurch Nacsa, who is standing next to him.]] So I ask with great respect, although I see that you have a great deal of work to do, Mr Secretary of State, but let me draw your attention to this, so that the courts may, of course, need legislation to look specifically at the records kept by the Registry Office in order to enable it to continue or to end as soon as possible. If they could get these data, they would make it very easy for citizens to sue. Thank you for your attention. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-11-20-166	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State Orbán if he wants to reflect. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-20-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support that goes beyond party policy logic behind this proposal, and I would particularly like to thank the spokesman for his supportive speech, while acknowledging that this does indeed place a serious task on national authorities, but we seem to agree that this task must be carried out and that it is precisely in order to enforce the rights of Hungarian citizens belonging to nationality. Thank you for your support in this regard. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond to a few things when I find my papers. [[She's in her notes.]] Yes, with regard to the issues concerning recognition of the work of civil servants, I would like to personally confirm here that, at an earlier stage in my career, I have carried out a role as a legal supervisor at the Ministry level, so I know exactly what it is like to be a heroinic fight and work for the civil servants, so I would also like to thank them for their work. Here, in relation to the civil status system, a fundamental question must be taken, which also clarifies the issues that the Member has raised, because they are, in fact, part-and-all connected to each other, where the register should belong: to the municipalities or to the state, in the sense that they belong to the central administration or to the municipalities. We have given the answer to this question in the last ten years to keep it with the municipalities, because it is in the best place, but then we think that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to pay the civil servants properly, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to plan the right work, to create the right number of human resources, and I also agree that it is crucial that what you mentioned is to keep the basic civil records. I would also like to ask the municipalities to pay attention to this, because these documents are irreplaceable and not only of musical value, but also of greater importance for the functioning of the Hungarian state. Several people have mentioned the right of access, Madam Member and Member. This is where the courts or other bodies have access to the register of civil registers. What I can say is that if the government is open on this matter, so if there is an intention to amend it, then we will look at this in substance. Up until now, the procedure was to build the I.D. and address records from the registry data, and the I.D. and address records were the central records to which the access was so widely available and used by the other authorities; simply because, until there was an electronic registry, access could not be carried out physically, because the judge could not go down to the registry manager, go down to the archives and look at the data. On the other hand, the correct reading of paper-based original registers, repairs and changes are indicated using a special method, requiring skills that other authorities or other bodies did not have. [[17.40]] So, in this sense, I think that there are also pros and cons to consider the gift of a paper-based birthright. The other, mentioned by Mr Kálló, is the possible strengthening of the church's role in the registration of marriages. So that in the case of married couples who want to marry before the church, this one act should be considered not only an act binding before God but also an act binding before the state. I can tell you that from the direction of the Government of Hungary, this amendment is supported. If the Member can also provide support for the churches in Hungary behind this proposal, there will be no obstacle to this. Up until now, the conditionality of this has not been met in the last ten years. Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki mentioned a specific issue, the issue of changing the marriage name. Before that, the system was different, so we are proposing to restore an earlier good system. Previously, a change in the marriage name was made by the birth registry managers. This looked like they had to submit the application, they also judged it, and the amendment was carried over. Then, because of a standardisation effort, the hybrid solution was to submit the application to the civil servants, to be decided by the government office, but to be registered by the registrar. Therefore, in fact, the legislative proposal puts the powers back to the civil servants, but they do not have any extra work, but less work, because then they do not have to do this circle, but they are automatically able not only to implement the decision, but also to make the decision. With regard to the first name list published by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, I agree with the comments concerning the fact that it is sufficiently broad, if one can say so, that the range of names that can be registered in Hungary is perhaps too wide. However, the situation is that if we look at it in an international comparison, Hungarian legislation is still the strictest compared to the neighbouring countries and Western European countries. So in most cases, we receive attacks from the same direction, and the Institute of Linguistics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences also receives attacks from the citizen's side, why it is not allowed, and why it enforces the linguistic aspects of the choice of first names that it enforces. So all I want to say in this is that we want to hold on, so that we think this solution is good, and we encourage the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to stick to it and consistently enforce the principles that it has set. We believe that it will mean the functioning of the common good, and, by the way, personal freedom and parental leave will not be restricted, so I would also like to thank you particularly if we also have support beyond party policy. Finally, I would like to thank everyone here in my background paper for the fact that 257 documented professional opinions and proposals for initiatives have been submitted to the Prime Minister's Office, who contributed to the preparation of this bill by professional organisations or external partners. I hope that you will pass through with support close to unanimous. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear Parliament, The year 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest follows. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/13664. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-20-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, During the first Orbán government, in the spring of 2000, the Parliament adopted the Act XIII of 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. Law. The purpose of the law was, and is still the case, that certain things, objects, were taken into state ownership by means of official confiscation, with regard to social policy aspects, in a reasonable way, not only to reach those in need on a campaign basis, or to be applied to the interests of the various interests, in particular those of the right holders who have been violated by their intellectual property rights. The first Orbán government has created the possibility that certain things and objects confiscated in criminal proceedings and in infringement proceedings can be used for charity purposes in the public interest. Confiscating is a measure aimed at bringing a specific item into the property of the State when the offence is linked to the infringement behaviour on which criminal liability is based. The confiscated property of the State may be sold or destroyed by the public authority, but the law ensures that charitable organisations deliver certain items that have been seized by confiscation to those who need it free of charge in the course of criminal proceedings and infringement proceedings. Thus, instead of destruction, confiscated goods are used, which can also be used for charitable purposes in the public interest. In many cases, for example, false - branded clothing, sweaters, T-shirts, shoes, or toys may be confiscated. These can be distributed as donations to those in need after the so-called brand debranding. In the last 20 years, an average of HUF 100 million was donated annually to those in need. If the law did not allow charity to be used by the authority and the state, the seized items would unfortunately be destroyed and thus deprived of aid. More than 20 years have passed since the adoption of the law on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. The application of the law has revealed a number of practical problems in recent years that clearly demonstrate the need for an amendment. Our entry into the European Union has also transformed customs rules. This is why, following the experience of recent years and decades, the present proposal aims to establish the year 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. the consistency of law with the existing practice of the use of certain things in the general interest for charitable purposes, which has been held by the State through confiscation. In addition, the law intended to make other technical amendments. The law allows charitable organisations to participate in the initiative and implementation of public interest use which meet the conditions set out in the separate legislation. The charitable organisation involved in the initiative and implementation of public interest use may be the organisation which has been a member of the Charity Council for at least 8 years, has been engaged in charitable activities with a national network and has at least three regional centres, an appropriate logistical background for the implementation of aid actions, employs at least 40 people in employment at national level and operates at least three regional warehouses. In other words, it has the professional knowledge, infrastructure and professional staff that guarantee the optimal distribution of confiscated things in the interests of those in need. I would also like to thank you for your diverse work in the service of the people. [[17.50]] Therefore, during the preparation of the amendment of the bill, we also discussed with the members of the National Humanitarian and Coordination Council, such as the Catholic Charity, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service, the Baptist Charity Service and the Hungarian Red Cross. On the basis of the discussions and feedback from the largest, professionally active charities, I can tell you that the direct employers of the law, who are directly associated with the people concerned who need help, support this bill. Its greatest merit is the opportunity to achieve not only the provision of confiscated things and objects to a level that does not exceed individual needs, as has been the case so far, but also the use of them at institutional level. At present, only the free allocation of confiscated goods to deprived persons, up to and including individual needs, can be achieved for public use. Through the institutions of charitable organisations, the bill allows for greater value to be used for those in need, or not for individual use in their nature, in the interests of those in need. In this case, you can think of confiscated objects or tools that are otherwise designed for so - called large users. For example, the machinery and equipment of a meat processing plant, which can be used for example in the kitchen of a charitable organisation. Under the current rules, these cannot be offered. Or, as a further example, I would like to mention the vehicles owned by the state, which were confiscated because they were used to commit a crime; the rules in force do not allow this to be used by the charities. Further merit of the bill is the coherence of the 2017 CLIII on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. between law and the law on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. In the implementation procedures initiated by the tax authority, the possibility of charitable use is set out in LXXXI 2019 on the amendment of certain laws relating to forensic enforcement. was created by law with effect from 1 January 2020. The 2017 CLIII. In the case of electronic movable auction, if the winner of the auction has paid the purchase price but has not taken over the movable property, the matter shall be retained by the State tax and customs authorities for 90 days. Upon expiry of the time limit, movable property may be sold by the State tax and customs authorities or may be disposed of for charitable use or, failing that, for destruction. The 2017 CLIII. However, law does not contain detailed rules on the use for charitable purposes. The bill ensures that, even when used for charitable purposes under the law, it is also necessary to apply the provisions of the law on the use of certain confiscated items in the general interest. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] The bill also contains technical amendments, among which I would like to mention that the legislation in force does not contain a specific requirement as to the form in which the authority handling the confiscated property informs the charitable organisations. The amendment defines the electronic form of notification in order to ensure rapid and uniform communication of data, in accordance with the public administration requirement of this century. Dear House, I have explained the reasons for the drafting of the bill, and I would ask you kindly to support all that is included in this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-20-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Gergely Tapolczai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-171	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2000, the Parliament adopted the Act XIII of 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest. law to ensure that certain things that come into government property through confiscation do not only reach those in need on a campaign basis, on a case-by-case basis. The Charity Council has a prominent role to play in this activity. One of the main tasks of the Charity Council is to coordinate the charitable use of objects which are definitively confiscated by the authorities entitled to seizure. The range of products offered to the Council is listed in the Annex to the Act. It divides this into two larger groups, one of which is a range of provisions for personal needs, such as food, clothing products, toilet products and the other, and the other group, which provides for additional needs, such as housing equipment, household appliances, sports equipment, recreational equipment and toys. The fate and use of the products offered shall be decided by the Charity Council and by the member organisation which undertakes to provide the benefits to those in need. Typically, the products offered consist of the items seized by the NAV and of the products offered by the other confiscated authority, 50-60 percent of which can be accepted by the Council. As the Secretary of State has said, hundreds of millions of forints of donations arrive each year through the Charity Council to those in need. This is a much more reasonable way of using these products, if I may put it this way, for a meaningful purpose, much more meaningful than destruction. I'd like to give you two interesting figures. Violation of industrial property rights causes HUF 600-700 million a year. In 2019 there was already a billion HUF damage. Most of the goods seized at the borders of the European Union are typically clothing products, toys, electronic products, tobacco products. According to European Union data, 70-85 percent of these products are seized on national markets and the estimated value of the seized products is close to EUR 12 billion in 2019. In the twenty years since 2000, there has been a great deal of experience with this procedure, as Mr Secretary of State has said, and I would also like to thank the Government for consulting the members of the Charity Council during the preparation of the bill. These organisations know best where and how to use these seized goods in the most efficient way and what amendments should be made, which are included in the bill before us. I do not want to go into detail right now, but I would like to mention one aspect that I would like to propose to the Charity Council and also to the Government and Secretary of State. [[18.00]] This is not an amending proposal, it is not a question of expanding the organisation of the Charity Council, but rather of proposing cooperation for consideration and involving organisations representing people with disabilities, interest protection organisations, in joint work. It is possible, indeed, for certain, that there are those in need who do not come into the sight of the members' organisations of the Charity Council, or, on the other hand, advocacy organisations are aware of persons who might still be able to help, so it might be possible to expand the circle in this direction and thus increase the delivery of products so that as many people can benefit from these products as possible. To sum up, the Fidesz faction welcomes and supports this bill, which expands the scope of charitable use, and creates the possibility that things and objects of greater value can also be used for charity purposes through the institutions of charitable organisations, helping those in need. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, I support this proposal and ask for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-172	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Kálló, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At the very beginning, it must be said that I fully agree with my fellow Member from Tapolcza; I fully agree that people with help must also be involved. Unfortunately, we often find that when a fellow citizen with help is in the family, poverty is often associated with them, so it is necessary to expand the circle. Secondly, I must point out that we are in agreement with this referral or with the bill, but at the same time we must note and ask some questions which are not clear from the proposal. Here the whole thing goes out to us, yes, there is a product we can model with a product, but don't do it, there is a product that is a forgery; otherwise I might add that my heart was tight even when I saw how many clothes, pants, shoes, and the rest, were booked, and they were all grinded up, at the same time, well, for someone in need, it would be good. And I think it's very forward that this has been worked out. However, I do not see the issue in this proposal, and I would ask you to do so if you could respond, however, we still support the proposal as to who will be able to change the product in such a way that the owner of the product or the owner of the brand will agree to this. So we're gonna appoint a sewing shop for this, and we're gonna appoint something for that? So who do we have in mind for that? It is an important question: for me, of course, the owner must respect his will, respect his wishes, but if I see a large American company, I don't know if they will be flexible in handing over their products easily to charities, even if they are counterfeits. I'm sorry, but, yes, I want to call in the big American companies. How about we try not to do this? And I'll tell you how we can skip all this. We do have an NAV, though, where we have experts, people dealing with it. Why don't we put a state signal on these products? A state sign that, in the event of little damage, we may, but we can put in that state mark, seal, brand whatever we call it, which draws attention to the fact that it is not the original, but it is a forgery, but we are not damaging the product itself, and yet we are not handing over a damaged, fragmented product to poor people who need it. I feel a little bit like there's a forgery in front of us or there's a shoe in front of us that they could use a lot, but given that it wasn't issued by the rightholder, so we're trying to damage it a little bit. Is it possible to use embroidered products or products on the side of which the mark is affixed to avoid damaging the product? I would prevent this thing, and I would come up with a state seal, a state sign, which, although it is not the original, but it is not obvious, but we will not humiliate those who use it. I would very much look forward to the answers to these questions. I'm sure you've worked these out. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State said one more thing that got my attention, and this is high-value items sold at auctions. Year after year, month after month, they come out on news portals about what they were selling, just what treasures they could find from auctions, which could sometimes be seized from mobsters, drug dealers, smugglers. Here comes Bentleys, Mercedes, high-value engines, high-value treasures. I don't know if in such cases, if there's police or NAV detention, shouldn't it be considered that in any case the state sells these seized things, should the money sold go straight to the charities? Because I accept it: it's a source of income for the state, but I think it's a drop in the sea. We should consider looking at the value above a certain level by an estimater, and if the value of the seized product, the car, the engine, the value of the jewelry, which we know came from a crime, because we have already conducted the trial, then we could think about that, so that we can provide additional resources to those who need it. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-11-20-174	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-20-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a very important bill before us for the last time this week. I think that, on the one hand, it is absolutely eligible, and I will not give you any news, and so did my fellow Members. I'd just like to say a few things, and I'd also like to answer Congressman Kálló. I have had the pleasure of watching closely the work of the Charity Council and the work of the member organisations. What you're suggesting is that debranding is happening right now. In addition, the State provides budgetary resources to charitable organisations in order to implement brand debranding. Each year, in the budget, we have tried to increase the public resources to be allocated to the members' organisations of the Charity Council. This also includes the related costs incurred by the members of the Charity Council, the charitable organisations, after the negotiations have taken place, what goods they can do, how they can deliver to our fellow countrymen in need, and what is needed. The Secretary of State also said that the year 2000 was the year XIII. We are amending the law, which has come before us on the basis of the accumulated experience of law enforcement in recent years, since the bill has been drawn up in the light of the feedback and practical experience of charitable organisations, taking into account the lessons of the past twenty years. The use of confiscated items in the public interest is governed by the Charity Council. On 4 August 2000, the Charity Council was established with the aim of coordinating the use of certain things confiscated for charitable purposes in the course of infringement or criminal proceedings. I think that, since then, in a number of situations where cooperation is needed, it has been shown that the Charity Council goes beyond its original founding goal: it is now not only helping to use these confiscated products and deliver them to the needy, but also, many times, these organisations, which work independently in a respectable, large and value-making community, can cling to the problem. [[18.10]] This was the case, in the case of floods, in the case of red sludge disasters, and in a number of situations requiring disaster and community cooperation, when it was necessary that the characteristics of the charities were not important, but rather the help, the quick and effective help. The members of the Charity Council, which meet the conditions, are the best known Hungarian relief organizations: the Maltese Charity Service, the Red Cross, the Catholic Charity Service, the Baptist Charity Service, the Reformed Charity Service and the Ecumenical Aid Organization. According to the current bill, it is possible, through the institutions of the members of the Charity Council, to use more valuable things that have been confiscated in the interests of those in need. So far, as many people have said, most of all, clothing, household goods, other seized, confiscated things have been the goal of donating and helping people in need; now, with this law, it is also possible to do things of greater value. I am thinking here, for example, of an institution, community, where charitable organisations can help, for example, they could get a minivan, which could, for example, help children to go to school there, and so on. We can all set an example. I would like to thank you for the work of staff and volunteers working in large charitable organisations. We're talking about a lot of volunteers here, not just people with work relationships. I think they're doing heroic work in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic. Nor did the usual charities fail, either the start-of-school programmes, or last winter, the various distributions of social firewood and other programmes where these charitable organisations can help communities, families and children in need, and, of course, they stand up, because a lot of people also maintain institutions and social institutions, just like those mentioned by you, such as the People with Help. The Maltese Love Service also has several institutions with disabilities, where products thus confiscated and then unbranded or otherwise used can also be used. The amendment thus allows for the use in the public interest of confiscated items which would initially be unfit due to various legal obstacles. These amendments allow the members' organisations of the Charity Council to distribute to those in need a greater proportion of the products offered by the authorities than previously. I think that we can all support this proposal, because the work of charitable organisations for the community, for society, is such a useful, value-creating work that deals with the most deprived, the most needy. And if there is such an opportunity to increase the value of confiscated objects, and we do see, based on the feedback from the charitable organisations, that there would be a need to accept them and find a place for them in the communities where they serve, I think that we have one duty left in the bill: in the final vote, you will press the yes button. The KDNP faction will do that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-20-176	Thank you. I now give the floor to Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, notary.
u2020-11-20-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, I think that in ten minutes he has summarized the amendment to the bill, which is about the use of confiscated things in the public interest. Several people have already said, and I can clearly only confirm that it is welcome that the proposal has been formulated on the basis of feedback and practical experience from charitable organisations and has been agreed by the government in this respect. I would also like to join Mr Nacsa in thanking him for the work of the charitable organisations here, because I believe that they are, in particular, doing very, very important and useful service here at the time of the epidemic, but not only now, but also in the previous period, and I hope that this will continue in the future. Perhaps the most important element of the proposal is that, in addition to the individual needs allowance, this proposal also provides for the possibility of institutional use of confiscated items, including, of course, confiscated items for health, social institutions and those which we can deliver to them free of charge. Obviously, the Charity Council has a role and role to play in bringing these confiscated things to the institutions. It is clear here that the Charity Council will take over these confiscated materials for use, and the deadlines will be changed here. It is also a good thing that, in future, in the implementation procedures that can be implemented by the tax authority, charitable use will be made possible, as well as the fact that things that are unfit can also be marketable if we can provide these things to the institutions. Thus, overall, and the MSZP supports this proposal, which is about confiscated items that can be transferred to health and social institutions maintained or supported by public benefit organisations engaged in charitable activities. At the same time, we would like to note and say that the provision of health institutions and social institutions should continue to be the responsibility of the State, as should the accountability and control. So I just hope that everything that's confiscated goes to the institutions, whether it's social and health institutions or any other institution, is just gratifying, however, what the state will otherwise carry out in the future. The MSZP faction supports the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-20-178	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-20-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wouldn't go too far with what I have to say at this late hour. We have all agreed here in this debate, and obviously, if more people had spoken to it, it would probably have been the same result that the objective for which this law exists would be eligible for all of us. So, if things are confiscated by the different authorities, and they have to do something about it, where and what they should do with it, it is natural to send them through a distribution system to those who need them, whose lives or institutions are helped by it, to make them better. So this is the goal, which, even when it was created, was fine and right, and we still think that, of course, this is the way to do it. Several Members have been absorbed in the details here, and I would not want to repeat the same problems that we are discovering in connection with the operation of the system. So the fact that, for example, this certain debranding raises a type of problem, whether we have reached the limit as far as it can be done, and until I know exactly how this can be done in negotiations with the right holders, in negotiations with them, whether it is possible to widen the limits of these, so that, of course, we understand their interests as well, and we have to accept it in a rule of law, I think, but of course, everything must be done to make the most of the confiscated goods really useful. In the material, or I don't know anymore, I may have read on the website of the Charity Council that about 50 percent of the goods are useful in scale and summation, so we are talking about several hundred million forints, and about 50 percent of that is what is really useful. Obviously, food is the main problem here, or things that are easily corrupted or have a warranty period. I would draw attention here to the fact that there are now statements, studies, that the expiry of the warranty period does not, by the way, mean inability to use. Obviously, this must be done with great caution, and there must be appropriate methods to do so. I'm just saying, it doesn't mean you have to dump the thing that's already expired. But this has been quite detailed by my fellow Members, and I do not see the point in which we, DK, are most in question, and the fact that this is the Charity Council, in Hungarian, is the organisations that form the members of the Charity Council, and to which such goods may escape, there are currently six such organisations, if I have calculated correctly. It is formed on the basis of a set of criteria, or it is defined what an organisation needs to do in order to become a member of this council. I would suggest that we consider whether this cannot be expanded in any way, whether it is possible to expand the ranks of these organisations. [[18.20]] It is certain that there are not only six organisations in Hungary that carry out charitable activities, which get to those who are deprived, or to a certain group of them, because they are trying to take on the charitable tasks of that group, so we also know such civil society organisations, and there is obviously one that is trying to generate some sort of solution to social problems. I understand that you do not meet the current criteria, so I read that you may have to maintain three different regional centres and the rest. But I can imagine, however, that we could find civil society organisations that are actually doing useful activities, and that would also be done in this area, if they were granted access to this Charity Council, I say, by adapting the conditions. This is important, because I think that this proposal has a substantial, important significance, namely that it is now possible to use goods in the institutions of these organisations, so that, if I understand it correctly, it would now be possible, through their institutions, to get these goods to those in need. I do not complain, of course, that the Hungarian Red Cross, for example, as one of the six organizations, can reach those in need through its institutions, or we could even talk about other organizations. I regret that there are no more such organisations in this, and when there are institutions, there are no more institutions that would be given the opportunity to do so, in case the 50 per cent of what I said at the beginning and what is your statistics could be bigger and better, and if it could reach more people. This criticism or rather I say that, regardless of the point, I also think that a fair solution to this matter is what this law shows, and therefore I am also providing support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-20-180	Thank you. After the keynote speeches, I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-20-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here on the final subject of the long weekly meeting, I hope, as the last speaker, the T/13664. The House is discussing the amendment to the previous 2000 law for the use of confiscated goods in the public interest. I was already a strong adult in the '90s, and I remember the public debate that lasted long and long years, when, in the dawn of the regime change, and in the years following that, when we lived at the time of the emergence of wild capitalism, smuggling was raging in Hungary, the counterfeiting of goods was raging in Hungary, and indeed we have seen in the newscasts and reports a great deal of unsavory goods that had to be destroyed by the representatives of the Hungarian state, because the crime had to be destroyed by law. It took quite a long time, a few years to get to the year 2000, when the legislator could no longer avoid taking any measure to use such fully usable assets for charity. I will never forget, I remember that the last spark in this was before the 2000 legislation was passed, that it could be shown that the IRS had a lot of such goods in his arms, as well as the Treasury Guard, because it was a separate organization at the time, and, by the way, guarding and staffing an awful amount of property in the court and police warehouse, which was necessary for guarding, had already burdened the budget to such an extent that fortunately there was a wise one, we do not know who, but there was a wise state leader who said that this should be put an end to it. It was extremely painful when there were many poor people; we were still in the years following 33 percent inflation, but we also understood how many difficult citizens we had who could have benefited from those goods and were most likely to be destroyed. I don't know how much you remember what happened 20 years ago, but at that time, this law was filled with great joy that it had been made, and over the past 20 years, very many people of difficult fate have been able to benefit from these confiscated goods. It is also a fact, and this has already caused a big debate in the '90s, that in the case of counterfeit goods, the violation of trademarks can be resolved if these products are not destroyed but used. It was proposed that, even if it is physically feasible to destroy, remove or remove trademarks, without prejudice to the consistency, they should do so. Now a little longer has passed since this issue has been made more clear. In any case, the fact that this legal institution has a very long history, it has taken a long time for the first legislation to be adopted, and I think that this proposal, which stands before us, also removes the remaining obstacles to the delivery of such goods to charitable organisations, as before. I will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal myself. I think, by the way, that there are still a number of areas in the social field, where I talk about similar actions, although not confiscated, there are a lot of useful scraps, a lot of useful clothes... but not the ones sitting in front of me. There are a lot of usable substances in industrial and economic life that could otherwise be used in a similar way. Companies should be interested in delivering these products even through the Charity Council to those in need, because I still feel that there is too much destroyed goods in industry, agriculture and the food industry. We must not forget that what is still a very important aspect is to restrain garbage production. So I respectfully ask the Secretary of State to urge the government to explore such areas in its work, and to try as much as possible to make use of useful things, and not to increase garbage, not air pollution, because it is also a problem for burning, but for those in our country who need, get to them, and at least that can mean their joy. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-20-182	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-20-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your constructive contributions. I would like to immediately point out to the Member woman, and I think that this is probably an answer to the other factions: one of the biggest dilemmas is what the charitable organisations can take over, whether they are national, whether they are local small, need a watch, and do a huge job. The big dilemma is, let's say, what the big trade chains give you and when they give it to you. Now, let's not even talk about food, because then there could be another life situation for charitable organizations to protect products on one side that the chains can no longer sell or have expired or have any other problems with them, and then what happens to them. There it is necessary not only to provide for brand debranding, but also simply to treat garbage as hazardous waste, or to raise any other problems. Therefore, I would continue to follow the 20-year practice that we have actually developed together with the charitable organisations, and I think they do well enough to do so. In this, I would also like to answer the question of Mr Gergely Kálló, Jobbikós, that we are trying to achieve everything, the greater the brand debranding ratio, but on the one hand, Hungarian legislation is binding, otherwise European legislation, EU legislation, and, of course, bound by the most difficult thing, is that big companies are protecting their goods. [[18.30]] And then there really is a point to which are the other charities that deal with brand debranding themselves... So I'm just saying in parentheses that they're doing this, so we don't have to create this organization separately, or at the same time, when they've given this job to people with disabilities and the companies that employ them, so when they get this job, it's just another huge dilemma about how damaged that product is. Because if they don't remove the trademark of that product, then the problem is, otherwise, they get huge lawsuits around their necks, if any, the charities, and the other side, and if they take it off, then these products suffer such injuries that they can no longer be used. However, this bill does provide an additional opportunity for charities, including for their own work, including for their own, say, background institutions, as well as for strengthening the homes of people with disabilities, which was desperately needed, and the saturation of the customs warehouses in this way has certainly led us to the fact that they are indeed signs of crime and, after a while, not only the signs of crime, but obviously, when we have had the negotiation, we have the decision, we have also paid, where appropriate, the litigation costs and other costs of the products that were in the warehouses, well, we have to assume that we will now use them. And obviously, one of the tasks of the field itself is to sell it if you can, but from the other side, it can be claimed by the charitable organization, and thank God, I think that now there is an opportunity for us to accept the law together, that these tools will be used by the charitable organizations to help their daily lives. I do not want to go back to the past, and what Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said is absolutely true, it is absolutely true, I have seen the same thing, I have accompanied the development of the law twenty years ago, or the period of catastrophic crime before that, and also when we were in opposition and became members of the European Union, the customs system, the scale and scale of the seized goods have changed completely, and much has changed in recent years. But there's one thing I can tell you: ten years ago, when I began to lead the council of charitable organizations again, not again, but again, I started to drive them, then they had little means, hardly had a warehouse, hardly had the opportunity to do all the things that they are now doing, professionally, driven by enthusiasm. And now, in recent years, huge improvements have been made both with support from Hungary and with EU support, and this is why during the migration crisis they have been able to help people and families who really need it, not only within borders, but also across borders, in Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia. This is why now, if there is a very big problem in the Carpathian Basin, and not only in Hungary, they can help with these tools much more professionally, more professionally and more organizedly in the event of natural disasters. And what I would like to say here to DK's representative: of course, there is a need for many small charities, but it has been necessary to join together in this way over the last few years, and it cannot be allowed, because unfortunately, disasters always have some downsides, beyond the disaster, that people want to get rich from it. And the last time there were serious floods ten years ago, there were quite a few companies that collected, and then, unchecked, they didn't get the support to those who deserved it, but went elsewhere. It is very difficult to exclude these things, which is why it is necessary to bring together, as far as possible, the communities and, most importantly, the charitable organisations of a national nature, in fact, that is what this bill serves. Thank you very much for everyone's observation, which came from the pro-government side on the one hand, and from the left on the other, because there is rarely any consensus between the Parliament walls that everything must be done, even if it is in the interests of the fallen, even if it was absolutely justified in the speech of our Socialist fellow Member, if it does not exclude the state's current responsibility either through the support and financial system or through the maintenance system, this is, in my view, an important thing. But from the other side, probably because their sensors are so, perhaps because they can be more flexible than the state, than local governments or larger organisations, they can help and help God, as they are doing at this time, which is difficult for all, difficult for doctors, nurses, difficult for patients, relatives, and, despite this, the charities continue to do their job. To conclude, I would also like to say to Mr Gergely Tapolczai that it is a perfectly natural and legitimate request that the Charity Council and his organisations at least have a meeting or discussion with the large organisations of people with disabilities, we will take this up, or we will pay more attention to it, but on the other hand you know that there are exactly such institutions of large charities, and in these institutions, unfortunately, we must say that they have to care for and care for many of our countrymen with disabilities. This support, this assistance, will also be provided to our fellow countrymen. Thank you very much for your comments and I wish you a very nice weekend. Thank you very much for your comments.
u2020-11-20-184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. I give the floor to the right-hand congressman Ádám Steinmetz, address of his speech:. The 68 after 67? Here you go.
u2020-11-20-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After 67, is it 68? I ask the question, and most people would certainly answer yes. However, if we look at the renovation of the national roads, it should be seen that, unfortunately, the renovation of road 67 was not followed by the renovation of road 68, although a government decision was taken 13 years ago. You know, this is the road that connects Balatonszentgyörgy to Barcs, Balaton to Croatia, and this is the road where, for example, under the window of Uncle Laci, who lives in Kéthely, in the summer months, more than 11 thousand motor vehicles are pounding, including trucks, trucks, tractors, engines, and on a road, road surface, in which a large part of the asphalt is depressed, crushed and covered with potholes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this section of the road should have been renewed a long time ago, and we do not understand why the Fidesz in power since 2010 has done nothing to make this happen. And this is also strange because the EU standard is to strengthen road cover, and this road 68 is also part of the European road network, so if anything, it would certainly be possible to require EU funds to do so. And if we have or have the source, then all we need is political will. But why is there no political will? I'm asking you. I do not think that Attila Móring Fideszes representative should sit in a comfortable seat of a television studio to say that this renovation did not take place, but that he might be able to speak in Parliament using his lobbying powers and ask the Government of Hungary to do so as soon as possible. [[18.40]] But if he won't do it, I will. I respectfully ask the Fidesz Government: why hasn't the Government resolution No 1004/2007 been implemented and why hasn't it been renewed, why hasn't the main road 68 been strengthened in a complex way? When are they gonna do that? Why wasn't road 68 renovated after road 67 was renovated? On behalf of the people of Somogy, I would like to ask you with respect that until road 68 is renewed, at least by road 68 you do not place giant posters that are now proclaiming the renovation of road 76 and the glory of the Government of Hungary, including the people of Marcali, which is infinitely rude and infinitely repulsive. My request is that European taxpayers spend their forints and money not on such billboards, but rather on renovating road 68. If you couldn't go to 68 after 67, you'd have to refurbish road 68 at least after 76. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-20-186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good rest.
