u2020-07-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you, and welcome all those who are monitoring our meeting today. The 2nd day of the 4th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Sándor Burány applied to speak before the agenda on current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-1	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, At the time of the coronal virus epidemic, now that we are past the first wave, all countries in Europe, Hungary, also have a feverish mind on how to mitigate and neutralize the economic side effects of the crisis. We are well aware that this epidemic has not only endangered our health, not only our lives, it has also put jobs in serious danger. The statistics clearly indicate that this has unfortunately happened. In this case, then, all governments should work primarily on, all parliaments should think about the measures that can be taken to preserve the jobs that still exist but are in trouble, and the measures that can help people who lose their jobs without their jobs. It has already been mentioned, so I do not want to waste a lot of words on why these economic protection measures are insufficient and why the government promises that everyone who has lost now will have a job, but the government itself is expecting long-term unemployment, and the number of unemployed is over 400,000. In this situation, we should talk about their help, that's what we should be discussing, and how we preserve the existing jobs. But no, László Parragh's chamber president saw the time to kick entrepreneurs. Strange country, it looks like it's ours. In other countries, Chamber Presidents are working on the facilitations that entrepreneurs can obtain, how to make their work even more effective. László Parragh, Chairman of the Chamber, acted as if he were president of the NAV and began to think aloud about how to tighten up the tax system of Katák entrepreneurs. The government got the idea. He got the idea at a time when all governments are working on how to ease the burden. The Chamber President's idea was bought by the Orbán government, and while unemployment rose to over 400 thousand, nearly 400 thousand cat entrepreneurs were made more difficult by the government and the President of the Republic, who announced the law as a matter of urgency. This kata had many advantages. Let us not forget that, under the initial conditions, we must mention that the lower the income of someone in Hungary as an employee, the higher the so-called tax wedge, the more contributions and taxes are on his wages. This is mainly due to the fact that when you introduced the so-called one-key income tax, although you promised that this would be a tax relief for the majority, this was not the case. In the year of introduction, this single-key tax meant only a real tax reduction of 20 per cent of taxpayers and at least two thirds of them and 60 per cent of them were subject to a specific tax increase. This unfair tax system has been in place ever since. In an unprecedented way, the smallest earnings are hit by Hungary with the largest personal income tax burden within the framework of the European Union. In such a situation, it was clear that small entrepreneurs who could not bear this wage could not bear these burdens, tried to choose a form, and these forms were available, such as the catapult with which they could reduce this tax burden and at the same time make taxation simpler. This discount was now largely abolished by the government and by the Fidesz majority behind it in the Parliament by imposing a penalty tax on the katás entrepreneurs, who are nearly 400 000 people in the country. The Dialogue proposal was clear, in this situation it should have done exactly the reverse, and in the case of taxpayers under the so-called median value, a second personal income tax rate of 9% should have been introduced to reduce the tax wedge. The government didn't choose this path, it didn't think about reducing the tax burden, but in an unprecedented way, on the proposal of a chamber president who should have protected the interests of the entrepreneurs, but betrayed them, taking the advice of this Chamber President's ill-advised advice, punishing nearly 400,000 small entrepreneurs in the country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2020-07-14-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following his speech, at the beginning of his speech, he spoke about jobs, about the unemployed, and again, as a prominent representative of the left, he demanded that we give people aid for as much and longer as possible. This is an eternal debate between us that, according to the current government, the unemployed should not be provided with aid, and thus make them comfortable to stay at home, and then the postman will carry the high amount of aid not for 3 months, 6 months or 9 months or 12 months. Instead, the government says that jobs must be preserved in this difficult, critical time, and, if possible, new jobs must be created. The economic defence action plan is based on this principle, and, if you do not agree with it, the last few weeks or more months have shown that the economic defence action plan is operational. Hundreds of thousands of jobs have been saved by providing support to employers in order to employ people in reduced working hours, while making up for their income through this support. However, particular emphasis will be placed on the job creation action, which includes that employers who can develop, invest and create new jobs will receive priority and substantial support. And now the European Union is also helping to do so, because it exempts the State from sanctions and even encourages it to provide as much support to employers as possible, and the government will do so with the economic protection action plan. [[9.10]] And as for the changes that have taken place in Katás companies, I'm quite sad that you're an economic expert and you don't understand the point. Indeed, there are more than 400 thousand Katas in Hungary now. According to the surveys, about a quarter of the 400 000 katák are already billing large companies for basically carrying out a service that they could otherwise perform in employment; several people in such employment have been put up in forced business or employed at minimum wage and billed in addition to certain companies. When the kata system started in 2013, that was not the purpose. Its aim was to help really small businesses with simplified taxation, eased taxation, less tax, since of course, there are 50 thousand forints a month, who are also in a large but affordable small business community. The whole point of the Katás entrepreneurial taxation system is to help companies that provide services or produce products directly to the general public, such as hairdresser, pedicure, seamstress, and not businesses that account for large companies for some kind of engineering service or economic service. Once again, about a quarter of the 400,000 people are included in this, almost 100,000 businesses. Now, for them it will be a change in the kata that if you account for more than HUF 3 million a year for the same company, 40 percent of the amount over HUF 3 million will be paid by your employer to the state. I stress your employer, the big company, the multi-company, not the small business. Honourable Congressman, This is in the best interests of honest small entrepreneurs. I'm very sorry if you don't understand, and your party doesn't support the fact that justice is being done in your kata system. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schmuck, from the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The extreme weather conditions over the last few weeks tell us that the climate crisis is getting worse. In relation to climate change, we have talked primarily about reducing CO2 emissions in the Parliament, and less attention has been paid to the situation of sinks and green surfaces. But we know that in order to achieve climate neutrality, protecting and increasing green surfaces is as important as reducing CO2 emissions. Unfortunately, we're losing both ways. In recent years, we have seen that the government does not like trees, nor does it consider the protection of green surfaces to be very important. There has been a great deal of wood damage to key government investments, large investments, and very few green surfaces, and even green surfaces that have been protected by nature protection. Last week I participated in two demonstrations organised by local civilians in which participants demonstrated to protect the natural values, the green surfaces and the cutting of trees. One movement was against the timber cuttings planned on the island of Shipyard, while the other was organised to protect the natural values of the Old Lake of Tata. On the island of Shipyard, about a thousand trees are planned to be cut down to replace it with a dam. On the Danube bank we need not concrete, but a natural environment. The natural environment promotes people's rest and recreation, reducing the unbearable heat due to climate change in the summer heat. The other case is the Old Lake case in Tata, where Hell Energy, a member of the Hell Energy Group of Lőrinc Mészáros's interests, wants to build a luxury hotel of 120 rooms in an area under conservation protection. The luxurious hotel's underground garage would be 10 meters deep with a protected source. The site is Ramsári bird protection and nature conservation area. The planned establishment is a protected area in all respects, an international migration resting place for wild geese and protected or highly protected birds, and I will stop here for a moment. Last week, thousands of people attended the Tata demonstration, a lot of young families came with children, and professionals and environmental NGOs spoke to protect and protect the Old Lake in Tata. My fellow Members, you should come to such events, because if you listened to people, you would know that natural values, a healthy environment and the protection of the green surface are increasingly important for people. People are aware that if we destroy the natural environment, climate change will also accelerate and that future generations will indeed have no future. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that, according to the latest data, climate change will accelerate in five years and the temperature rise will reach and even exceed one-and-a-half degrees Celsius. Scientists say this is the turning point, and if we get through this, there may not be a way back. The future of mankind will be questionable. This will have a very serious impact on the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society. I'd like to give you another example. Here's the case of the former MotoGP. I asked Minister Palkovics questions, and I received a meaningless reply by signing Secretary Schanda. In this response, there is no mention of any environmental impact assessment or social consultation on the cost-efficiency studies that have been carried out. No, we're just hearing the usual speech about how this would create thousands of jobs, but there's nothing about how it's gonna ruin our natural environment. Dear House, What we see is that they usually have the financial, economic and short-term interests of an interest group. It is time to think about what is important: short-term economic interests, or the future for young people today. We're sure you'll think about whether the future will be green or not. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-07-14-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It's an honor to be able to respond, since you've called me specifically. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to start by saying that the fact is clear and it is quite clear that the protection of the created world is of paramount importance to the Hungarian government. We also think and believe that protecting the created world, protecting our environmental heritage, is not a matter of political fashion, even though they are trying to make a political campaign over and over again. [[9.20]] The fact is, honourable Member, that the government is acting, and on this important issue it is taking further and further steps, unfortunately unlike the whole of the left. Allow me to draw your attention and remind you of Hungary's decision to support the European Union's first climate neutral continent by 2050. Moreover, our country has made a greater commitment, since we are not only saying that the European Union as a whole should become a climate neutral region, but also that Hungary should achieve this goal by 2050. We have given and created this opportunity with your help, including with your help, because you have submitted a bill, a parliamentary resolution, which also contained this objective. But you voted against this proposal. You have not supported the objective of no matter how much you talk about this issue, so that Hungary will become a climate neutral country by 2050. The resolution was voted down and the law that would have made this clear and clear was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In this Parliament, decisions were also taken which include the timetable for this, the clear vision of how to achieve this goal. Following long and thorough preparation, the necessary steps will be supported by professional, realistic and feasible government strategies and action plans. We have made it clear that the costs of the transition to a climate neutral economy must be paid to climate destroyers, and we also believe that the economy should be transformed, the whole structure should be transformed so that the costs of this are not in any way reflected in the energy and food prices paid by families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In addition, we are taking a number of concrete measures, because we do not think that there is a climate crisis to be declared and that action has ended here. What we see is that there are cities where this is happening, there are political bodies where the climate crisis is being announced, and it is as if the possibility of action has been completed. On the other hand, the government is taking concrete measures. I could now list some points in the climate and nature conservation action plan or specific measures in various government strategies, but allow me to highlight only the most recent ones. Last month we announced our proposal to support the emergence and use of cheap electric cars. We announced a HUF 5 billion framework and provide HUF 2.5 million in support of vehicles below HUF 11 million. But we give taxi drivers even more support, because they're the ones who use their cars a lot. This will also help us to live in a much better environment in Budapest. That's what government does. And what does Budapest capital do? We don't see any action. But we can see that at the same time we support the placing on the market of electric buses and that we have issued green bonds. We have issued green bonds worth EUR 1.5 billion, which can only be used for green investments. Or in the last month we announced the Hungarian high-tech and green tender scheme with a HUF 100 billion framework, which will encourage nearly HUF 200 billion of investment in Hungarian SMEs to make green investments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's what it means to do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda from the DK Group, Mr László Varju asked for a speech on the subject of current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, A few weeks ago, in one of the nice halls of Parliament, the Committee on Budgets met to discuss this year's most important law concerning all of us, the Budget Act. This meeting was attended not only by government officials but also by government officials to express their views on the country's finances. The pro-government representatives of the Committee on Budgets, i.e. the majority, have not even spoken to them in a very rude way. Let me begin by saying that I publicly apologize for your rudeness and take this opportunity to thank the Hungarian authorities for their work in recent months. Because it's not enough that the government abandoned them in the fight against the epidemic, in their work instead of the government, even in this House, the leaders of the settlements were expelled. It is not enough that they brought protective equipment to hospitals, that they organised the mask distribution for people, that they helped the elderly people, the Hungarian citizens to buy, it is not enough that the DK-led municipalities organised support for those who had been laid off in the crisis, or gave home care support to the families of patients who had sent home from the hospital to the government. These municipalities, not only did they not receive a thank-you, but they also have to deal with ongoing government restrictions and withdrawal of funds. Therefore, I thank the Hungarian municipalities for taking care of the country instead of the government. Therefore, every mayor and municipal representative, in particular the opposition working in the government's headphones, should be recognised. I thank them for their honor, for taking care of the country instead of the government. And what did the government do in the meantime? He turned his oligarchs on another hundreds of billionaires and stuffed them with a lot of public money under the heading of crisis management for their safety. Because even in this critical period, a government unable to accept the results of last year's municipal elections would rather be at war with the municipalities than listen to them. As far as I can see, the party president Viktor Orbán has not yet dealt with the defeat of Fidesz in autumn last year. Orbán cannot seem to accept that the Fidesz has been replaced, the Fidesz mayors have been voted down, and the resistance has taken back their cities, villages and districts. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán takes revenge on NER by abusing his power. I also know that the entire Fidesz-KDNP government must have passed an "A" in evil subjects. Instead of funding, they promised a callable credit line to municipalities in distress due to the economic crisis. I mean, the municipalities from which they were legally deprived of their business tax revenue and even imposed a false evil tax on them as a solidarity contribution. They didn't promise to pay for the defense. No! They did not promise to return it to the municipalities, which they were wrongfully taken from them. No! You are prepared to lend a loan to those who have been abused by the law. It's like I'm going to go to the Secretary of State right now, take all his assets, and then I'm gonna tell you there's nothing wrong, and I'm gonna lend it to you. That's what you did to the municipalities. You are just as cynical, impertinent, when the HUF 200 billion budget for municipalities was removed from next year's budget. Of course, we understand their purpose. Consider a known example. Péter Niedermüller, my colleague, the VII. The DK mayor of the district just won a lawsuit against the government propaganda because they lied that the VII. In the district, they reduce the salary of municipal workers and take away the clothing money. Well, it didn't work because neither did the VII. This is not the case for district or other DK-led municipalities. I hear you're saying we didn't take enough. It is quite obvious what their purpose, their own propagandaists, was, with their slanderous articles. You want to punish the districts, towns, villages where people say no to Fidesz. But I say a few more months, and the country says no to Fidesz. Enough fighting families, cities, schools, universities, hospitals so that some people can have a new yacht and a helicopter. Look, I don't give you any cake or advice, but I strongly recommend that you accept and respect the decision of the Hungarians in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[9.30]]
u2020-07-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let's go back to the budget committee meeting, where you invited the opposition mayors to make political trouble and tell us how much trouble the municipalities are in. Instead, if I may, I will now quote from the letters from three mayors what they think of the budget for 2021, who were sent to that committee meeting. Letter from the mayor of Salgótarján county:. The so-called set-off, depending on the capacity to reduce the overall operating aid for 2020, is not included in the budget bill for 2021. This is a positive change for our local government, because despite the planned increase in the solidarity contribution to 2021, the reduced tax capacity means that the planned withdrawal will be reduced. This is written by the mayor of Salgótarján county-righted town. But the mayor of Zugló, Csaba Horváth, surely you know, writes the following about the budget for 2021: Taking into account the district figures of the previous year, these support revenues can compensate for the increase in the solidarity contribution, so the drastic increase in the amount of the solidarity contribution alone does not automatically represent the same increase in budgetary withdrawals. So what does the mayor write? There's nothing as bad as what you say in Parliament on a regular basis. But I'll keep going. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Mayor of the District, András Pikó says:, While the changed solidarity contribution will amount to more than HUF 940 million plusterhet in the VIII. for the district, this is offset by the cessation of the system of reductions and the rise in the level of certain aid normative acts. What are we talking about, honourable Member? Your opposition mayors acknowledge that although there are changes in the budget, they are negative from a municipal point of view, and at the same time they are positive. They write this down themselves, which was said at the Committee on Budgets. Look, what I see is that after you've managed to win some government leadership in the fall of last year, you're doing nothing but mistaking it, thinking that local government management is all about begging, begging and pointing to the government. Local government management, a mayor's position, local government representatives' position is responsible and responsible for achieving the management balance of the local government, and this is not an easy task. But when we face a problem, it doesn't mean I should do one thing as the mayor of opposition: ask the government for money. Honourable Congressman, Everyone knows that there is a very difficult situation in this country because of the corona virus epidemic. The state of the budget is difficult, the situation of the economy is difficult, and the situation of the municipalities is difficult, but the situation of the people is difficult. Therefore, when we talk about less resources for municipalities, for example, because of the withdrawal of motor vehicle tax, 1 percent of all municipal budgets are withdrawn by the state on the basis of the solidarity principle in order for the municipal system, which collects revenue, to contribute to the control of the coronal virus epidemic. The capital and some metropolitan districts do not wish to participate in this. We can't accept that. Honourable Congressman, You're asking the government for funds, money, money, and more money, who also has less revenue. The government is also able to collect less revenue due to the economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. It is not possible to know how much less the budget will be paid, Mr 1000 billion or 2000 billion, honourable Member, everyone must participate in the problem together, including your local governments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, What does the Government do for workers' rights? Mr Gurmai Zita, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, allow me to express my sincere condolences on the loss of our fellow Member, Ferenc Koncz. These are always amazing losses. And now before the agenda. It's shocking and inhumane, what happens in Városnánymény. The A.R.J. The 530 employees of Ruhagyár have not received any salary since 23 March, which is nearly four months ago. Since the employees' relationship has not been terminated by the company, they cannot expect termination or termination. In order to receive job search support, their employment would have to be terminated. However, they also lose their severance pay for decades of employment, i.e. workers have no job, no salary, no new jobs, and no job search support. It is a trap in which hundreds of Hungarian workers were trapped by a foreign owner. So far, we thought that such exploitation and extortion of hardworking young people was unthinkable in the country where the government is proclaiming the protection of these people. Half a thousand employees were put on the brink by a company owner who thought he was English, but sent messages from Dubai, who, according to the company register, still publishes his announcements in Népszabadság four years after the end of the newspaper. According to the news, you've been negotiating with the owner several times. Five billion forints were promised for development not so long ago, last October, and they didn't even bother to look at the company register. Or if there's a company registered in Dubai, will he give you a passport? Dear House, Let's recap what happened. The government had a good fight, while 530 people lost their jobs and even their hope of ever seeing their money again. You keep saying that you protect the interests of the Hungarian people, the young people who work hard. Well, now would be a chance to protect him. However, the government is idly watching over 500 Hungarian workers be destroyed by a foreign owner, such as Éva Baráth, who entered the trade fairyard 36 years ago, shortly after he graduated from the vocational school and became a seamstress. During this time, the 53 - year - old woman swerved unstoppably over the machines, first in two shifts, then in one shift. This is what he did until 23 March of this year when he was unilaterally sent on unpaid leave and 530 of his associates. In the meantime, his monthly salary was as much as the Prime Minister's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, had spent on a place he liked for dinner for two at the Four Seasons, if he paid for it and he didn't pay for it. A hundred thousand forints! Where have you been all this time? Where's the best job creation package you can brag about? Where were you when the great mayor of the city warned you of danger? Maybe on their yachts on the Adriatic? Congratulations to the great Hungarian yacht owner, Mr László Szíjj! The owner of a single yacht of Dunaszfalt, which you have filled with billions of public money, has the same operating costs in one hour as Éva Baráth's annual salary as a seamstress in Városnámény. We shouldn't be spending money on self-rewarding posters, we should be spending money on real help. Do not fight invisible, imaginary enemies, but protect hardworking Hungarians when there is a real problem! The helplessness of the Fidesz government is indicated by the fact that a foreign owner can do this to Hungarian workers. Dear House, Remember, we proposed real measures. We've suggested that the government take over 80% of the total salary of the unemployed. We suggested that the job search time should not be three months, but nine months, and the amount should reach the net monthly HUF 100,000. [[9.40]] We've put a lot of substantial suggestions on the table, but you've swept them all down. It's still not too late to stand up and say we were wrong. Instead of abandoning me, give real support to the people who are left behind! And I suggest you consider what you're going to say, because people in the fairgrounds are watching what they're saying. 530 people don't expect anything from the government to point out anything else in the past, they expect real action. They're wondering if you'd be able to do something like this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of DK and Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He brought an important topic to the Parliament, and it is therefore particularly sad and outrageous to use the unfortunate situation of Hungarian people for political profit. Don't do that. It is true that there are unfortunate people with whom the employer, their employer, a foreign owner, has dealt with in an infinitely unfair way. It created a situation where the Hungarian State cannot provide clear assistance directly to the workers. The measures you are proposing, the unemployment benefit and other related grants all assume that the job will be terminated. You were also talking about what kind of support we should give to those who lose their jobs. Here, unfortunately, this foreign irresponsible owner has put his own employees in a position where he has not terminated the employment relationship, has not terminated the employment contract, and so the necessary measures and the necessary subsidies could not and cannot be provided to workers. It's an irresponsible and reprehensible decision, and we agree on that. Therefore, my request is that you do not want to benefit politically from this, but that we find the solutions and the opportunities that we can use to help these people. Because we offered help to this company, by the way. They were there and there are the opportunities that are available to them. There are the credit options from which the cover needed to pay the wage can be made available, or there is the programme of wage support for reduced working hours, and there is still a long list of all the subsidies that the company could have used. But he didn't. But the crime of the owner of a private company in a state of law should not be held accountable to the government. And, honourable Member, if we are talking about this, and if we are talking about what help, what support and what opportunities the government has provided for companies and businesses affected by economic difficulties, let me draw attention to the fact that, although countless fake news and countless false news has appeared on various portals, the situation is that Hungarian unemployment figures are particularly good, the Hungarian employment figures are very good in European comparison. Let us see that while unemployment in Hungary is significantly lower than the European average during this period, one of the lowest in Europe, while Greece is expected to have 20 per cent, Spain is expected to have 19 per cent, France and Sweden are expected to have 10 per cent, Slovakia is expected to have 9 per cent unemployment. So it can be said that Hungarian measures are also outstanding in European comparison. This is because, unlike your period of governance, between 2010 and 2020, there are about 900 thousand more people working in Hungary, and the employment rate has risen from 54 per cent to 70 per cent, and unemployment has fallen from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent by the end of 2019. And it can now be said, honourable Member, that 4.5 million people were working in Hungary before the epidemic, and at the low point this fell to 4.37 million, but now we are happy to report that the recovery has begun, as employment has started to increase in Hungary in the last few weeks, more and more Hungarians can work and earn wages from week to week. And that is not the case by itself, honourable Member. This is because the government has taken the necessary measures in a timely and professional manner, launched investment grants, launched wage subsidies, adopted an economic action plan, and has taken all the measures to reduce the economic impact of the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you not to criticise measures that have contributed to the protection of hundreds of thousands of millions of Hungarians' jobs and the creation of new jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We don't give money to Hungarian citizens! Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-17	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Strange things are happening now, because before a normal European Union summit, what usually happens is that the Speaker, together with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, convenes the so-called consultative body at these meetings myself, I usually attend earlier than the Deputy Head of the Jobbik Group, and then there, Prime Minister, reports in quite detail on the position of the government at the next EU summit. We have asked questions, we have received fair answers from time to time, and the Prime Minister, also as the most important figurer in Brussels, has followed, because the European Council is the most important decision-making body in the European Union and has not stopped itself, but has gone to the summit of the European Union and has decided on all issues in which the most important top body in the European Union is used to decide. Compared to this, honourable Members, strange things are happening, as we are here at an extraordinary session, where we are debating a proposal for a resolution. This proposal for a resolution, on which the lead speaker of Jobbik, Zoltán Balczó, my dear fellow Member, is a small detour: he who has not voted against our country in the European Parliament, no, has never voted against any rule of law or other criteria, he will explain our opinion in detail and will present the proposals of the People's Party's Jobbik amendment. At the same time, I would like to state that, in the economic and political crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the European Union would be particularly needed, namely a new compromise between Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, is only good for slamming tables, rather than a balanced negotiation that Jobbik has been proposing for a long time. And now, at this summit, a fair and good new compromise between the northern and southern states and the western and Middle East states would be needed, not a table slamming that is included in this proposal for a resolution, and which jeopardises the EU's money for Hungarian citizens. It endangers the EU's money of Hungarian citizens, which is not a charity, but a well-deserved one. In addition, I would like to refer here to the fact that thirty years ago in the period of change of regime, by my age, we all thought that the establishment of both European integration and the institutional system of parliamentary democracy would bring to all Hungarian citizens the prosperity and freedom that we expected. Compared to this, Fidesz has built a one-party overpower over the last ten years, and has continued the neoliberal economic policy and the maiming of Hungarian workers that their predecessors have done in the last twenty years. Here we are at the moment, and let's face it, for the past ten years, there has been an incredible abundance of EU funds, a Marshall aid money lost in Lőrinc Mészáros' concrete, and we are now at a point where we are from Slovenia. [[9.50]] I'm not saying the Austrian standard of living, but I would say as a citizen of Sopron poncichter, what we all expected 30 years ago. This is where we are compared, and here we are, that, in practice, with the criteria of the rule of law, you openly admit that you are afraid of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which does not mean, my fellow Members, the mutilation of national sovereignty, because you would only supervise the money of European Union citizens. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Isn't that ours?]] As Jobbik has suggested for a very long time. Are you afraid of something, or why is this such a big problem? Once again, one of the fundamental values of European culture is Roman law in addition to Christianity and Greek culture. Then why do you like to be afraid of the rule of law criteria, which Minister Judit Varga said at the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting that there is nothing against the Fidesz government if all Member States are subject to the same criteria? We support this, and if this rule of law criterion system will be met by our country as we all see it from the distorted media situation to the emptying and occupation of the democratic institution system in Parliament to all the others, then accept this decision. Once again, I stress that I am not talking about the excessive tolerance of the Balliberal Members of the European Union when I am talking about the rule of law criteria, such as migration, in which Jobbik's position has been clear from the start, and we are still proposing the establishment of a border guard, not about these, but about the need to pursue a normal, fair compromise. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-14-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda presented by the Vice-President. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, He touched on one subject, but approached it from several places. Allow me to respond accurately to the points. On the one hand, as the elected vice-president of the Parliament, Mr Vice-President does not understand why the Hungarian Parliament is negotiating in relation to negotiating positions in the European Union. [[István Németh Szilárd: That's why he wasn't elected first!]] And I don't understand. I think this is a nice gesture of Hungarian parliamentarism, a nice model of operation. If only in all other European Union countries there would be a system of dialogue and relations between the people and the government as it operates in Hungary! I think, and this is confirmed by constitutional foundations, that the Hungarian government can take positions in such negotiations and take up positions that are on the basis of popular representation. As far as I know, the Parliament is the representative body that can give this mandate, this confirmation. So, in addition to the fact that in the Hungarian Parliament, as you said very correctly, the Prime Minister in the consultative board keeps the leaders of all parliamentary parties informed about his own assessment of the situation, in addition to that, I think it is an important thing, even in such a summer period, to talk about what strategy the Government of Hungary should pursue and take up in the EU negotiations ahead. This may cost many people their vacations, but let us not be lazy, but let us come, let us state our position, let us state our position, and let us define the strategy with which we can best represent our country's interests. He also commented on EU funds. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you have had an argument at the time, not with us, but with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who said that Hungary has used the Structural and Cohesion Funds well, which is clear from the economic data, because we have been top riders for years in terms of economic growth. If there is a debate between you, discuss this, we agree with Chancellor Angela Merkel in this regard, and I think that the facts, the data and the statistics are on our side. I understand that you're building a political product, I don't know, narrative, but it's not going to work, because it has nothing to do with reality. We have two cases here: one is the MFF, one is the budget hearing for the next period, and the other is the EU instrument for future generations. It would be strange, however, that, after we can agree on this and, let us say, there is a German-Hungarian unity that Hungary has made good use of EU funds, then a budget for the next period will be proposed in Brussels, which will punish countries that have used the funds well so far and reward countries that have not used them properly. We don't think it's okay, it's a double standard, it's unfair and unacceptable, beyond party policy logic. And with the loan package for the next generation, we are always careful. We understand that there are countries that need help, and we can express our solidarity in this regard, but we must be careful, because even if we call something Next Generation Fund, it will serve the debt of future generations if we do not pay attention. Hungary has already been on this road before, so we will be careful. In addition, we would like to define conditions, because although the value of the rule of law is an important thing, and we are willing to think that this is an intellectual challenge to look at the situation of the rule of law on a level playing field in individual European countries, but please, this is not what is happening. It's a plank. It is a political planner used against right-wing, conservative, Christian governments and political forces in Europe. What does the rule of law have to do with what is in Hungarian textbooks? Why should the concept of the rule of law be linked to the fact that we believe that the family is a constitutional value and must be enshrined in the Constitution? We think it's unacceptable. And here is a moment when we can stop this thing, and if the Hungarian Parliament authorizes the Government of Hungary to do so, then the Government of Hungary will represent this at all the negotiating tables. I would just like to say to Mr President that courage is not in the speech, but in the election. So if you agree with these, then don't just talk about it, but choose this page and support the resolution proposal that Parliament is about to decide on. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! In addition to our family, Christian and national symbols, 100 public figures and tens of thousands of signatories from the group of the KDNP, Mr Bence Rétvári applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Together with many sober-minded people, we also believe that homosexuality is a private matter in Hungary. Therefore, we do not understand why it is necessary to upset the everyday lives of peaceful, peace-loving people from summer to summer, and to insult Christian national symbols during the gay parade with a kind of provocation. We have seen them try to make fun of the Scriptures, mock them, see that they have tried to make various ecclesiastical garments a mockery and therefore insult millions of believing people, and now we have recently seen one of our most important national and Christian symbols, the Holy Crown, represented in a rainbow band as a symbol of the gay parade, knowing and wanting to offend the people for whom the Holy Crown is a religious, Christian-based symbol and a symbol of the national unity, as the Fundamental Law states. It is not understood by the silent majority, it is not understood by the sound, moderate people, why national and Christian symbols should be violated every summer, why this period should be made a field of extremes. It is clear that these parades are not primarily about the acceptance of homosexual people, but, in fact, for left-wing and liberal political forces or social forces who have lost ground and subject matter, an opportunity to show off, an opportunity to provoke. Two of them are enjoying themselves these days, on the one hand, by those who want to insult and provoke national-conservative-minded people with the symbols I said earlier, and, on the other hand, by the extreme extreme groups who, on the other hand, like to insult or toss them from the other side of the cordon. For a sober majority, neither is a sympathetic route. This initiative, the gay parade, divides society rather than means social peace or acceptance of anyone. [[10.00]] Anyone who would judge homosexuals on that basis would obviously have a distorted image, as they would be thought to be a group of provocative, extreme, loud, poignant people, which is perhaps true for a small part of them, but most of them are not, in my view, true at all. And if they do so together with such an attack on the Holy Crown or an attack on the Holy Crown, I think they will make many more welcome. It also shows that this is organised not for homosexual people, but against family and national values, that it is organised in countries where equality of rights is granted between homosexuals and non-homosexuals: in the USA and in Europe, and where there is no equality of rights in the Middle East and no-go zones, this is not organised. They only organise the march for equal rights where it is; where it is missing, they do not march for this purpose. So we can see that in the name of tolerance, these organizers are the most intolerant and insulting communities. But I do not think that we should always tolerate this at all costs, which is why the 10 points of the Védvédők were supported by many people: on vasarnap.hu a hundred leading public figures and on the citizengo more than 23,000 citizens. Let me explain these 10 points. 1. We believe in God. 2. We respect our national and Christian symbols, we only use them in a worthy manner. 3. We recognize that family is the basic cell of society. A strong nation is built on strong families. 4. We say what our Fundamental Law confirms: marriage is an alliance between a man and a woman. 5. We recognize the beautiful complements of the relationship between man and woman and the speciality of their love for each other. 6. We realize that humans are not made up of men and women. We can't change our gender. Trials like this are simple cosmetics. 7. We know that a child needs a loving mother and father. 8. As provided for in Article 7 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child: The child has the right to know his parents as far as possible and to be raised by them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 9. We protect our children from the LGBTQI-ideology that affects them, which has been specifically sensitive to them lately. 10. We are not afraid to stand up for the values that are most important to us, even if we are branded for this. It was signed by people, among other things, such as Franciscan province chief or music producers, scientists, economists, university professors [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , Camp Bishop László Bíró, Máté Botos historian, András Csókay neurosurgeon, Father Imre Kozma, Ákos Makláry, President of KÉSZ, retired Archbishop Gyula Márfi, Zoltán Moys, editor-in-chief of the Homecoming, Gábor Náray-Szabó, Bernadette Rojkovich, Mária Prokopp, Péter Roska, musician Attila Gidófalvy or András Veres, President of the Bishop Conference. In conclusion, let me quote the Fundamental Law: We respect the Holy Crown, which embodies Hungary's constitutional state continuity and the unity of the nation. Protect the Holy Crown! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-22	Thank you very much, Mr President, but with respect, I would like to draw your attention to the time frame. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, replied on behalf of the Government, to your speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State, Congressman. First of all, I would like to thank you for the restraint you have shown in your speech and for how you have pinpointed the communities and the self-appointed groups that have acted on behalf of these communities. Here, too, we must separate the silent majority from the loud and provocative minority, which regards the provocation of the majority society as its main goal, the denies of the traditional family, the male and female family concept, those who do not organize events about the respect they always talk about, but provoke traditional, traditional majority society. The Member quoted from the Fundamental Law the relevant part of the National Creed, according to which we respect the achievements of our historic constitution and the Holy Crown, which embodies Hungary's constitutional state continuity and national unity. Any provocation about sharing contradicts precisely this teaching, this declaration, and is therefore unacceptable and dangerous to the unity of the nation. Article IX of the Fundamental Law It also states that everyone has the right to freedom of expression, but also provides that expression is not unlimited, but that there is a framework within which the exercise of freedom of expression cannot be aimed at violating the dignity of the Hungarian nation, national, ethnic, racial or religious communities. If we think of the role of the Holy Crown in our history, its constitutional role, its traditions, it does represent the dignity of the nation and its use in any environment that violates it, it contradicts this protective article of the Fundamental Law. Persons belonging to such a community are entitled, as defined by law, to enforce their claims against the expression of an opinion which violates the community for violation of their human dignity, even in court. Those who have made this petition, who have joined it, do not wish to receive legal satisfaction. They want to declare to the broad sections of society that so far and no longer; that everyone is aware that this is not a case of exploitation of rights, but a case of abuse of rights, which violates the rights of others. We understand, of course, that these organisations, so to speak, stand in the way of the provision of the Fundamental Law that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as a basis for the survival of the nation. And it says here that family relations are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. These debates are always taking place in this area, but it does not move forward and does not make the position of the minority acceptable if the majority is provoked in such a harsh way. Moreover, the Criminal Code itself provides for violations of national symbols, that those who use in public the Anthem, flag, coat of arms or the term "St. Crown" or otherwise dishonor them, if no more serious crime is committed, will be punished for a period of imprisonment of one year due to a misdemeanor. But again, I say not to talk about criminal law, but to get back on the ground of human normality, and let those who provoke us year after year get to themselves. At the same time, it must also be stated that it is, in itself, the expropriation of a symbol, so to speak, because the rainbow, if we are living in the Christian culture circle, we know that the symbol of the covenant between God and man, which appeared after the flood, after which even the Holy Crown as a national unity is involved in this provocative circle, I do not believe that it is within the framework of the rule of law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr János Halász, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, With a joint effort, we won the first battle against the virus, thanks to the successful defense, the epidemiological data in Hungary are favourable. Since mid-May, life has been re-launched with several measures, and Hungary is currently one of the safest countries in terms of the epidemic. However, until there is a vaccine, the virus will remain with us. The threat has not yet passed, so it is necessary to maintain the epidemiological alert. At the same time, the most important task now is to work hard to restart the economy. We can remember that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced at the very beginning of the emergency that by the end of the year we would suspend the obligation to pay capital and interest on the loans of all individuals and businesses. [[10.10]] Even after the outbreak of the virus, more than 81 thousand small businesses were exempted from the flat-rate tax payment until 30 June. We've suspended evictions, seizures and tax executions. We have also extended the rights of children, children and children to the end of the emergency. The government has taken countless relief measures. Our occupational protection measures have contributed to more than 1.2 million workers' jobs. Dear House, Unfortunately, Hungarians could not count on the left either in the health emergency caused by the epidemic. The left also rejected the bill on protection against the corona virus. The left-wing parties didn't help, but deliberately hindered the defense. It's amazing that they weren't fighting the virus for a minute, but they were fighting the government all the time. It is shocking and sad that even in such a serious situation, the Hungarian left does not protect the lives of Hungarian people, but is politicalising along party political interests, spreading rumors, producing news videos, dictatorship, and incites against Hungarians in Brussels. But instead of breaking up, we need to work together. The more we team up, the more we can help the families. The more we work together, the more jobs we can save. But no one has any doubt: we will overcome this crisis without the left; but not in the way they did in the past. During the 2008 economic crisis, the Gyurcsánys ruled. Let's see how they handled the crisis at that time. They took loans, they indebted the country, they took me away from people, they took me away from families. They took a month's salary from health workers, educators, public sector employees. The 13th month pension has been lifted. Millions of pensioners lost one month's pension. This is not how we deal with the crisis. Now, besides helping businesses, families and job creation, teachers will receive a 10% wage increase in 2020; healthcare workers will receive a one-off allowance of HUF 500 000 and we will also pay attention to our elderly countrymen; our elderly countrymen who can count on the government in trouble. Therefore, we will gradually rebuild the 13th month pension taken by the left. The first instalment of the 13th month pension is also included in the budget for 2021 and it is a shame that this budget has not been voted by the left. Dear House, We Hungarians, with a joint effort, won the first battle against the virus, restarted life. Our country has become one of the safest countries in Europe from the point of view of the epidemic. However, defence has not been so successful everywhere in the world. So in many places the plague rekindled. So now we have to protect our safety. We need to stop the virus from being introduced from abroad. There is only a chance of avoiding the re-introduction of measures limiting our lives by keeping the virus out of bounds. The safety of the Hungarian people is the most important thing for us, so we must do everything possible to prevent the return of the virus. The Fidesz fraction therefore fully supports the government's latest epidemiological measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Menczer, State Secretary, Mr János Halász, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-27	Dear House, Honourable Congressman,
u2020-07-14-28	Your name hasn't been published yet, Mr. Secretary. [[Tamás Menczer: Published, Mr President.]] He showed up, thank you. [[Noise, interruptions.]] I ask the technical staff to give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. He just showed up. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-29	Maybe he'll be okay now. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, So, now that you can hear it, I think you're right when you make a summary, because if we look back at what's behind us, what's the period behind us, we also look at the situation in Europe, and we think about what we might have to prepare for, then, I think it's right that we should appreciate our situation, despite the fact that, as you referred to, the game is still going on, because the virus is here, and there is no vaccine, so it's justified that we appreciate our situation. The first phase could indeed be successfully taken, and the first phase of protection against the virus was successfully completed, and this is solely due to the cooperation of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government. This must also be emphasised in particular, and it is also a great achievement because we have achieved this success in a very uncertain time. There was a great deal of uncertainty about this virus. The uncertainty is not much less now. It was an unknown virus, we didn't know, we don't know when there's gonna be a vaccine, maybe next year or not. If it is next year, then we don't know which part of it, and we didn't know, and we're actually in doubt now that if someone caught it, they'll be protected, and if so, in what short term, medium term or perhaps long term. In this situation, it was extremely important that the operational tribe and the government took action and, more importantly, that they took action in time. I would like to remind this House that, compared to its first registered infected date, the emergency was announced by Hungary on the 7th day, Spain on the 44th, Italy on the 38th, France on the 58th day. The closure of the clubs was ordered by Hungary on the 13th day, Italy on the 37, Spain on the 44th, France on the 54th, Germany on the 55th day. Or, for example, the suspension of school teaching was ordered by Hungary on the 12th day, the Spanish on the 41st, the Germans on the 49th, the French on the 52th day, for example. So these figures also show that the Hungarian defence was based on timely decisions and was much more effective than the defences of other Western countries. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is regrettable that only the left did not participate in this cooperation, but I think that the situation is even more serious. Not only did they not participate in this, they prevented this defense, and even more serious, the defense and the defense were constantly attacked. We can remember the famous fake video starring Congressman Lajos Korózs. By the way, if I had listened to the press, Congressman Korózs would have reappeared these days, despite the fact that, after such a failure, all the good people would have gone crying to the end of the world in shame. Congressman Korós isn't like that, he's not made of that. He reappeared, and he told me the truth again, and he shared his senses. This amazing shame and lies did not bother him, but we do not really have to be surprised at that either, because we know that we lied in the morning, noon, night, and evening, Ferenc Gyurcsány is the teacher of the opposition, this is known. And speaking of Ferenc Gyurcsány, we can remember that Zoltán Varga, a Gyurcsányist, attacked that specialist, the chief national officer, who led the defense several times and in the lowest possible way, but the opposition was not separated from this representative and Ferenc Gyurcsány. This also shows that all the parties came out of Ferenc Gyurcsány's cloak. More specifically, not all the parties, there is one exception: Jobbik. They didn't come out of Ferenc Gyurcsány's cloak, they're trying to get in there. That's the only difference and exception. [[Zoltán Balczó applauds.]] I would like to note that the fact that the Hungarian left also focused on political gain during a pandemic was the meanest and most inhuman act of the period since the regime change. But this mine work could not prevent effective defence, but, as you said, the situation in several countries in the region and in Europe is steadily deteriorating, so the operational tribe and government divided the countries of the world into three groups. In the case of traffic-free yellow and red markings, Hungarian citizens should be expected to be quarantined, or they should have two negative PCR tests within five days with 48 hours difference. And from red-marked countries, foreign nationals are not allowed to enter at all. The government and the operational tribe regularly assess the situation, regularly assess the virus situation and, of course, introduce changes if necessary. All of this is a condition that we can live here, within the borders of the country, as safely as possible and as freely as possible. Thank you for raising the subject, and we continue to ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We're taking a very short technical break. Please take your seats during this time. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.20]] Dear House, Fellow Members! A joint debate on EU economic measures on the economic impact of the coronal virus follows in an exceptional procedure. The presentation submitted by our fellow Members László Kövér fideszes, István Simicskó KDNP, Máté Kocsis fideszes, István Hollik KDNP and Richárd Hörcsik Fideszes H/11282. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur's representative, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will have a total time-frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, the further speech in the debate and the presentation of the possible closing phrase. Dear House, I now invite the speaker, Mr László Kövér, to come to the stand and give the opening speech from the platform. [[László Fat enters the speaker's stand.]] Mr Speaker, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-31	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The coronal virus epidemic has put mankind, of course, us Hungarians, as well as the Member States of the European Union, and otherwise its institutions, on the face of an extraordinary challenge. A large part of the Member States of the European Union have not been prepared to deal with the public health crisis, and the Union as a common institutional system has proved completely inadequate. In Brussels' defense, on the one hand, it has not been created to solve such tasks; on the other hand, one of its principles, unfortunately ignored in many cases, can be saved from responsibility on the basis of subsidiarity; on the other hand, although it has shown helplessness and paralysis, in which it could really contribute to the efforts of the Member States, we trust in their coordination that the months left behind have accumulated enough experience to enable the EU institutions to contribute effectively, albeit modestly, in the future, to respond to the challenges of the next wave. We are pleased to note that Hungary, together with our friends in Central Europe, is one of the states that has proven that it is possible to manage such an unexpected crisis successfully. One of the keys to the solution was to cooperate with the forward-looking and fast-acting public institutions and, in spite of the hysteria campaigns launched by these political ulterior motives, with citizens who were constantly in charge. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Visegrád countries, who had been constantly reduced and troubled, who were condemned to the role of poor relatives in need of alms, were able to protect their citizens from the catastrophe caused by the failure of the health system, which caused the deaths of tens of thousands of people in the larger part of the EU's old Member States. Moreover, these countries have been able to overcome the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in 2008 as well as the fact that the new economic crisis, which is now being caused by the pandemic, promises to be much milder here than in the older EU Member States, in this case typically southern. According to the International Monetary Fund's projections, as a result of the epidemic, the EU's economic downturn this year will reach 7.1 percent and the southern Member States 8-10 percent, whereas in Hungary the IMF considers this to be only 3.1 percent of the most economically stable country under investigation. All predictions come from a time before the European Union Commission announced the economic recovery package, which is the subject of this proposal and the debate which is about it. The Hungarian government, as in the management of the epidemic itself, has once again made timely and good decisions in broad cooperation with the relevant economic operators in order to reduce the economic downturn and protect jobs. Therefore, it is safe to say today, ladies and gentlemen, that, after Hungary's finances and public finances have been fixed, that it is able to recover from the current economic difficulties, i.e. it does not need or need any EU lifeline, and, in fact, we do not agree with the planned solution of crisis management in the European Union. The Commission of the European Union has developed a recovery plan to link the EU's multiannual financial framework between 2021 and 2027, i.e. its budget with the mandate of the Member States, with a loan of EUR 750 billion from the EU budget to be taken by the Commission from the financial markets, of which half, EUR 500 billion, is called non-refundable aid, a small part, and 250 billion, would be allocated as a loan to the Member States to help finance programmes to recover from the crisis. However, the planned allocation mechanism does not take into account the size of the country's national product per capita, the size of the countries or the differences in the country's economic problems, and is therefore unfair. It favours richer countries compared to poorer countries, punishing countries that have a smart and disciplined policy, while rewarding countries that are in debt with undisciplined fiscal policies, and again talking about the ego of Brussels bureaucracy, again they want to know better what a good solution is than the governments that enjoy the trust of the majority of their citizens in Prague, Warsaw or here in Budapest. And they want to develop this with the so-called rule of law conditioning, i.e. in a vague, undefined procedure, they want to link the payment of money not to the so-called European values, but to the obligation to comply with the political demands of the EU's increasingly aggressive and destructive elites, which are globalist, pro-immigration, anti-national, anti-traditional and family. However, ladies and gentlemen, of course, a government giving something to itself and its constituents cannot accept these conditions, even in the case of so-called EU aid, because they are not aid, but compensation for the contribution we have undertaken to facilitate the functioning of the Union. In the present case, i.e. any condition outside the economy in the context of the recovery package listening to the next generation of the EU, is simply absurd. This is because the package is not backed by payments made by Member States in proportion to their economic strength, but by a loan in which the Member States participate together, i.e. a debt community, with long-term joint responsibility. If we take on the loan together, then we also have to decide on the terms together. As I said, we wouldn't need this credit, and we will pay back more than we now have 6 to 6.5 billion euros by the end of the 30-year repayment period starting in 2028. But from solidarity with the southern states, we are willing to contribute as a one-time exceptional instrument imposed by the exceptional situation in order to preserve the functioning of the EU. However, only if this is intended solely and exclusively to stabilise the EU's troubled economies and to establish a more competitive economic community as a whole, and not to promote the creation of the fourth German-Roman holy empire. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] We joined the European Union because it seemed and still seems to be the most favourable framework for the implementation of our national interests in a half-thousand years of reflection. [[10.30]] We continue to believe in a strong European Union based on equal and free cooperation between strong nations, to which we were willing to contribute to the joint exercise of some of our sovereignty through the institution of the Union. But the country is not for sale, at least according to our faith, so we are not willing to voluntarily strap on the collar, on which the end of the chain will be held by those who intend to re-colonialize the small states of Central and Eastern Europe. We have been equal and equal members of the Union on paper for 15 years now, and so far we have been loyal to all EU decisions; even if it has violated our legitimate interests, even if we believe that it has endangered common EU interests, even if our sense of justice has also protested. We have protected and defended the external borders of the Union with no small sacrifice. We have tried to use EU funds so that everyone can benefit from it: both those who receive it and those who pay it. Therefore, when Chancellor Merkel said that, if we look at the Hungarian economic growth rates, we can see that this money was well invested by the country, that it is the end of the quote for the people, then perhaps not only her words of appreciation related to the success of the failure left here by the socialist-balliberal governments led by Gyurcsány and Bajnai, that today Hungary, together with the Visegrád countries, can be part of the most dynamically developing region in the EU, but also that Germany and the economies of some other old Member States can bring more money home from here than they pay for the financing of cohesion funds here. Hungary considers the protection of the Union's financial interests as a legitimate objective, but there is already the right means to do so from the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, you know, which found that the construction of metro line 4 was an abuse of HUF 100 billion, through the Commission's annual reporting obligation on the protection of the Union's financial interests, to the regular investigation of anti-corruption action in the framework of the European Semester. We agree that the Union should establish a procedure for examining the rule of law. In 2014 there was already a consensus in principle that this should operate on an intergovernmental basis, i.e. in the European Council, without disrupting the balance of competences of the institutions of the European Union, while respecting the national identity and equality of the Member States, with a view to objectivity, i.e. adherence to the facts. Why has such a rule of law mechanism not been established since 2014, my fellow Members? Is it just not because it would not be possible to turn the accusations of European values and non-compliance with the undefined criteria of the rule of law into an ideological bot? Is it because you'd have a place to ask these riddles? In which country does state security observe representatives of a parliamentary party? Which country police have institutionalized racism, according to the Prime Minister? In which country did the court say without consequences that a national election should be repeated because of mass irregularities? In which country do parties delegate judges? In which country is there no Constitutional Court? In which country are most rapes against women committed? In which country does the so-called independent judge discuss with left-wing politicians the verdict against the right-wing prime minister? Which country's public media regularly instigates against the head of government of one or more allied countries? Which country is powerless to prevent the establishment of a statue of the spiritual father of communist mass murders? What country's media can for days silence the fact that an organized group of illegal migrants has sexually harassed the masses of local women at a New Year's Eve carnival in the main square of a big city? Which country, according to the President of the Commission, could afford to ignore the EU's fiscal rules without the risk of sanctions? And I could tell you more. [[Interview from KDNP lines: That's right!]] Among the correct deciphers, we draw a box of Jean-Claude Juncker photos [[Defiance. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In addition to supporting small pioneers, he is wreathing a statue of Marx. I can tell you that Hungary is not the right answer to any of these questions. Well, fellow Members, speaking to Attila József, we have played the bamba among clever gentlemen enough in the decades since our application for accession. We've learned the rules of the game, and we're playing with the cards that we got from the hand, but we don't like to sit at a table with fake card players. The European Union is indeed one of the best things that has happened in Europe over the last hundred years; it is not a perfect formation and, as we can see, it is experiencing rather difficult times. The EU itself, as well as the Next Generation EU instrument announced by the Commission, has a chance of success only if we can preserve and restore the confidence and willingness of the Member States to cooperate with each other and with the EU institutions. Our responsibility is enormous, since the burdens and benefits of our decision today appear both in the accounts of the next generation. Ladies and Gentlemen, During the last stormy centuries of Hungary, four empires have been more or less subordinate for a longer or shorter period of time, for three by force, one by more or less self-serving, so we have plenty of historical experience that can be used today. Gábor Ugron, during a parliamentary debate during the Millennium year, said, I quote that the Prime Minister of Hungary is obliged to represent Hungary's public-law life and financial interests against Austria, in addition to the same tasks that the Prime Ministers of other states are carrying out. The Hungarian Prime Minister must be an expression of Hungarian law, representing Hungarian self-esteem and the dignity of the Hungarian nation. So far, the quote. After more than a hundred years, the only change was that this duty had to be fulfilled by the government, not against Vienna, but against Brussels. Let's wait here for you to report back on the outcome of your negotiations. No illusions for anyone in Brussels or here in Budapest: Parliament will not accept any political conditions attached to the recovery package. Ladies and gentlemen, By accepting this proposal, we support and urge the government to meet this requirement. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-32	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Speaker for his speech. I would like to inform you, Mr. Speaker, that you have spent a total of 15 minutes and 55 seconds on your opening speech. Accordingly, it has a total time frame of 9 minutes to 5 seconds to speak in the debate or to close. I would like to ask Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, with all due respect, if you would like to speak. [[On the mark of Gergely Gulyás:]] Yeah. Dear Minister, Before I give you the floor, I'll inform you that you have a 15-minute window at your disposal. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament is now discussing, in line with European practice, the proposal that we have known for weeks and that the European Commission has done to deal with the coronal virus epidemic. Many parliaments do so, and the right public-law solution in Hungary is that Parliament gives a mandate to the government. If, by the way, the agreement is then reached, there are parts of the loan that make parliamentary ratification inevitable. This also anticipates that there may be a situation where an agreement will be reached in Brussels if neither the Hungarian Parliament nor any other Parliament does not ratify this agreement. So this shows that the functioning of parliamentary democracies, which the Lisbon Treaty intended to strengthen, is essential for a real consensus in such an extraordinary situation in the European Union. [[10.40]] We can say that the European Union has never taken out a loan together, and although, no doubt, thanks to Germany, the borrowing is more favourable today if the European Union does so than the southern states, but the latest proposal, as amended, does not suggest that we forget that only 70 per cent of the amount of money that is not intended for us, but which is aid, can be paid back by the European Union after 2028, is not a loan that can be taken on by the Member State, but aid, but that the European Union alone does not have a source of money as an economic unit, so that the European Union is backed by Member States and Member States. Therefore, we should not have any illusions, it should also be partly paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, not to mention the guarantee that we will make for countries that have a common loan, the long-term economic performance of which is highly doubtful today, or if we want to express it more dramatically, the compromise in Europe is today because the solvency of many southern states is at risk if they remain without an EU rescue package. It is therefore that Hungary contributes to a debt that is foreign to Hungarian government policy, which contradicts our thinking about the European Union, because we believe that the framework for integration is properly contained in the Lisbon Treaty, and so far we have always been reluctant to go beyond these frameworks, it is only acceptable because Hungary is a good ally within the European Union. Our solidarity therefore extends to the adoption of an instrument whose use we do not consider to be the best, which poses serious risks to Hungary only because of the guarantee, but what is necessary in order to guarantee that some of the Maastricht criteria, otherwise in recent years, and that they are part of the Lisbon Treaty, are aid to states which have violated the Lisbon Treaty. However, this can no longer mean that Hungary will accept conditions that we would not have been willing to accept even within the framework of the ordinary budget, i.e. the seven-year EU budget. And indeed, as the referring speaker mentioned, the question of the rule of law conditioning is not crucial because, according to fashionable accusations in Western Europe, there are problems of the rule of law in Central Europe, especially Poland and Hungary, because this claim is untrue. The examples presented in the proposal show that there are much more serious problems with the rule of law in Western Europe today than those that can be found in Central Europe, so that in Hungary. Today, the procedure under Article 7 is only good for other countries to play the role of the opposition of the Member States in individual countries, especially Poland and Hungary, and although it is no wonder for the Hungarian opposition to need foreign support, we believe that this is not the form of the European Union that should stand on the basis of cooperation between governments, and that can only be effective if, by the way, 27 dissociative wills, the governments elected by different societies are able to reach consensus. Therefore, it is not in Hungary that the rule of law should be feared, but that EU cooperation should be feared that other Member States will become part of internal political debates. It's worth avoiding. In recent years, we have gained ample experience of the fact that the state of law conditioning means nothing but a political club that could involve the introduction of political sanctions in Western European states which disagree with the development of Central European society and, where appropriate, with conservative governments, so that the Hungarian Government will not accept this and, after full agreement is required, we will veto any attempt that does not require a clear judicial decision or the conditions set out in the Council conclusions of 16 December 2014 mentioned in the proposal, and this is not only true for the rescue package, but also for the budget. What is very important, however, in the next period ahead, is that the southern states will be able to use this borrowing facility and support only if used to develop the economy. This is the only criterion that should be imposed, but should also be monitored objectively and within a clear framework, bearing in mind that the government of a Member State knows what the economic interests of that State require and the government of a Member State is sovereign, which voters have given to take economic policy decisions. In a parliamentary democracy, the Hungarian government naturally asks the Parliament for a mandate on a matter of this nature and importance, and will also report on its negotiations here in Parliament. We therefore regard Parliament's decision today as a binding mandate tailored to the government and the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-34	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that within the framework of this debate, you will have 8 minutes and 25 seconds left of your timeframe for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 July 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed EU economic measures for the economic impact of the Crown Virus, H/11282. A proposal for a decision. The summary report was adopted by 22 votes in favour in exceptional proceedings, not without a vote, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The coronal virus epidemic has posed an unprecedented challenge for Europe's countries. Hungary has won the first battle against the epidemic thanks to timely and effective measures. Now, however, we must act to preserve jobs and start economic growth. Unfortunately, this year there is a recession, unemployment and increasing public debt threatening the economies of European countries. As a member of the European Union and as part of the single market, it is in our country's interest to ensure that the European economy is restored as soon as possible by appropriate measures and instruments. Although Hungary disagrees with the solution chosen for crisis management, which creates a debt community between Member States, it is ready to accept this as a one-off measure in view of the gravity of the current exceptional situation. However, since all borrowings are risky, the use of the loan should be rational. The proposal before us strongly states that the joint loan should be distributed in a fair and balanced manner and that the use of money should be decoupled from political considerations. It is also important to emphasise this because the recovery package is based on EU joint borrowing and not on different levels of payments from individual Member States. The use of financial resources in each Member State should therefore be free, but the joint loan should only be used to improve the economy and be used for economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, The key to the success of the Next Generation EU instrument is cooperation and trust between Member States and towards the EU institutions, as this instrument is also a huge responsibility because it will indeed be paid by the next generation. Parliament calls on the Government to take account of the following principles when adopting the Next Generation EU Instrument and the EU Multiannual Financial Framework. 1. Member States in the same situation should enjoy equal treatment. 2. Citizens of richer Member States should not receive more support than citizens of poorer countries. 3. The ongoing procedures under Article 7 shall be completed before the adoption of the Next Generation EU Instrument and the Multiannual Financial Framework. 4. Political parties and political organisations disguised as civilians are not eligible for EU funding. 5. Putting resources under political and ideological conditions under the heading of the rule of law is unacceptable. Dear House, In view of what has been said, we support the proposal for a decision before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.50]]
u2020-07-14-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have a period of 30 to 30 minutes, a total of 8 minutes for independent Members, 8 minutes for the representatives of nationalities and 8 minutes for the representatives of nationalities. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present their group's position, and I would also like to draw your attention to the possibility of making full use of the 30-minute time frame during the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás Deutsch, who will speak here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-37	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. The European Council and the European Parliament are about to decide on major EU financial proposals. Negotiations are under way on the proposal for a multiannual financial framework and a joint EU borrowing proposal of EUR 750 billion for the Next Generation recovery instrument. The strong position of Fidesz and KDNP MEPs is that the proposals in their present form are unacceptable to Hungarian people, Hungary. The proposals are unacceptable because the allocation of EU funds in the framework budget and in the recovery instrument from borrowing is unfair, because it flows resources from poorer countries than the average development of the European Union to countries that are now richer. The unfair allocation of EU funds is a threat to the achievement of one of the most important common objectives of the EU, catching up. The proposals are also unacceptable because of the introduction of an institution called falsely the rule of law conditionality, as it actually provides the means of arbitrary political blackmail against Member States in the hands of Brussels bureaucracy. The possibility of financial pressure on a political basis is in sharp contradiction with Article 4 (2) of the EU Treaty, according to which the Union respects the national identity of the Member States, which is an integral part of their fundamental political and constitutional arrangements. The political attack on our constitutional and national sovereignty and our freedom is all about introducing the rule of law mechanism. This rule of law mechanism serves the rule of law just as much as socialist democracy served the cause of democracy during the communist period. It is not joyful, but unfortunately there is nothing surprising about the need to debate hard with the European Commission in the negotiations. Of course, there is a strong conflict of interest between countries and EU Member States. At the same time, it is infinitely sad and pathetic that all the representatives of the opposition parties in Hungary are working not for the Hungarian people, but against their country. Whatever they try to steer, no matter how much they try to steer, they will use all their energy to take away as much European Union funds from the Hungarian people as possible. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Intercom from Jobbik: Butcher Lawrence!]] Any opposition proposal, which emulates, for example, the lonzunge of direct Brussels funds instead of the funds due to Hungary, means nothing less than the withdrawal of 97-98 percent of the EU funds for Hungarian people. All EU money, which is in the so-called Hungarian national envelope, goes to the Hungarian people at 100%, while up to 2-3 percent of direct Brussels funds reach Hungary. The opposition MEPs in Hungary do not want to desecrate, but to disarm, the EU funds that we have. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] The opposition is not paying attention to the interests of Hungary, acting like a frivolous munchkin in Brussels. As far as their daily maniac slaughtering is concerned, companies owned directly and indirectly by the businessman show that they are far from the first 30-40 companies in Hungary receiving most EU support. Let's see, fellow Members, the facts. A total of 245 336 applications were received in Hungary in the 2014-20 development cycle as of 12 July 2020, of which 160 428 applications were supported and 9848 billion forints were awarded. Following the supported proposals, 158 986 grant contracts were already concluded, with a commitment of HUF 9522 billion. Of these 143 625 applications, 7544 billion HUF has already been paid. 143 625 applications. Ladies and gentlemen, That's all Lőrinc Mészáros is not in Hungary. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] The old communist tactical advice is to accuse your opponent of what you're doing. And the old communists became new Hungarian socialists, democratic coalitions and momentary liberals with surgical precision according to the old communist guide. Those who beat our fellow Member Márius Révész half-dead at the time of their government are accusing Hungary of problems of the rule of law, because he dared to speak in defense of the peacefully commemorating people to the karmatalmists who were brutally acting on the orders of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] Those who, if they were on the government today, would list and list the Jewish or Jewish characters of Hungarian public life, which would be listed (Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!) Your mayor doesn't find anything wrong with your idea. (Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!) Those who are tearful about the rule of law, whose governance over the next decade was a period of systemic damage to the rule of law. [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Disappointment! Miklós Soltész: That betterman is here right now! That good-looking congressman is here right now! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Some opposition MEPs say that they believe that the Hungarian government is afraid of the rule of law mechanism because in this new system we would find out the many, many swine that they have been visiting for years. They don't think we'd be afraid if we didn't have something to hide. Well, this House, they deliberately confuse aggressive strangulation and friendly hugs. Friendship is a great gift of life, but with every nerve, we reject violence. Last but not least, millions of honest Hungarian citizens are accused of corruption, whose names are linked to the most corrupt government since the change of regime, from the hundred billion-dollar corruption case of Metro 4 to the Sukoro case. The accusations are made by those who, at the time of their administration, have developed an institutionalised system of corruption for the use of EU development resources. They created the shadow government of their own government, the National Development Agency. From the government institutions controlled by Parliament, the ministries have outsourced the use of EU funds to their shadow government, the National Development Agency, which employs the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is controlled exclusively by Ferenc Gyurcsány and led by Gordon Bajnai. In the NFU, EU funds were distributed on a political and private business basis by the Gyurcsány-marriage couple. And this is not just a political opinion, it is the official legal position of the European Union. [[11.00]] The 2018 discharge report adopted by the European Parliament clearly states that the main problem with Hungary is systemic financial abuse and corruption in the period before 2010. The report also notes that the rise in irregularities and abuses has also increased since 2007. I quoted it from the official document of the European Parliament. So, my dear House, the corrupt socialist owl says to the fidesz sparrow that he has a very abusive head. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the delegation of the European Parliament to the Hungarian People's Party, I propose the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the Parliament's table. We support the conditions under which Member States in the same situation should receive equal treatment, the citizens of the richer Member States should not receive more support than the citizens of the poorer countries, the procedures under Article 7 on-going should be closed before the adoption of the EU Instrument for the Future Generation and the MFF, political parties and organisations disguised as non-governmental organisations should not be eligible for EU funding, and, last but not least, the inclusion of funds in political and ideological conditions under the rule of law is unacceptable. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your attention, which has been an honor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-38	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your speech. Dear House, The Jobbik Group has indicated... that Congressman Miklós Soltész has applied in order of business. The new house rules allow us to give the opportunity to speak on a point of order. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, When we are in one of the most important debates in Hungary and in the history of the European Union, we are faced with one of the most difficult decisions, when the speaker of Fidesz, Tamás Deutsch, reached the part of the speech when he referred to Jobbik, saying that Jobbik asked for a list of representatives of Jewish origin, and then the Member added that even the Mayor was not separated from it, and the parliamentary left-wing factions, well, Tibor Nunkovics made a very clear statement and signal, and then pointed out to Tamás Deutsch, who spoke on the platform, taking on his Jewish position. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Shame on what you say! You didn't even hear what I said.]] Several people saw what you said, Congressman. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! We saw it! Shame, shame!]] Mr President, When we're in such a serious argument, then...
u2020-07-14-40	Congressman, I'll be with you in a minute. I know it was a very serious term, and it's a very serious thing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I believe that this House will examine this section of opposition. [[Tibor Nunkovics: What I said is written in the report!]] Congressman, you have just asked for a statement in order of business. I give you the floor. The time frame is one minute long for you, too.
u2020-07-14-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a shame. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] They can't hear what you're saying. I apologize for yelling at you, but its content is not in any context with what you are saying here, and this will be proven by the record. It's a shame they're doing this. Shame! [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then what did you say? You haven't figured it out yet?]]
u2020-07-14-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speeches on the order of business have been completed. The Jobbik Group has indicated to me that two of their speakers are presenting their group's position. [[Move. Several pro-government representatives leave the meeting room.]] I will give the floor first to Mr Zoltán Balczó, who will also speak from here, from the platform. I'll wait for the congressman to wake up. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to listen to Mr Balczó's presentation. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-43	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Of course, I note that there is no need for opposition speeches to be heard by many, but please make it possible or leave the Chamber. [[Gábor Törő: Request separation!]]
u2020-07-14-44	Fellow Members! I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to sit down and listen quietly to the speech of Mr Balczó Zoltán.
u2020-07-14-45	Then I'll answer. I am very sorry that my speech should start after an intermezzo when Fidesz, as usual, slandered Jobbik with anti-Semitism again. [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side.]] And you're making this accusation against the National Assembly itself. Dear Parliament, Mr. Speaker, [[A statement from the Fidesz: Here comes the lie!]] Mr. President. What does it mean to lie now? What kind of debate do you guys really want on this issue, that I haven't even started the first sentence on the subject, and the congressman says this is where the lie comes from? ! [[Rumble on the pro-government side. Interpreting, including: Get to your speech.]]
u2020-07-14-46	Fellow Members! I'm asking you very nicely to be quiet. Go on, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-47	I will now begin my meaningful speech after 1 minute 33 seconds.
u2020-07-14-48	We're gonna count you in on your time frame.
u2020-07-14-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with a formal question. The reason why this plenary debate is taking place today, this proposal for a resolution, as the Heads of State and Government are taking part in the European Union summit in a sovereign manner as a result of their election. The practice so far has been that, at the meeting of the so-called consultative body, the Prime Minister has told us what he wants to represent at the summit and has listened to opinions on this. Does the two party groups of Parliament in this case no longer trust the Prime Minister to represent the Hungarian interests properly? Or it is that Viktor Orbán thought that a decision adopted and expressed by Parliament on such a serious issue was necessary, because a serious decision could indeed be made for the future. The solution was just given to me by the speech of Speaker László Fat. Allow me to take the liberty of giving a brief opinion on this. When I have the opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister's speeches in EU matters, I see that he is trying best to represent the interests of Hungary in the given realistic circumstances, in his view. The Speaker, on the other hand, as a theorist of Fidesz, generally wants to address the situation of Hungary and the EU in a much broader perspective, historically, for the future and globally. Obviously, this has given him the opportunity to speak at this level in this matter. I did not give an opinion on the comment, I just indicated that there was a difference in approach. What is this 750 billion-dollar package? It has already been mentioned in part that this is a recovery package for which the EU needs to borrow. The EUR 250 billion part of this package will be available as a loan. In terms of allocation, it is indeed true that there are aspects of Hungary that are detrimental, and we agree that the Prime Minister should do everything possible to ensure that these funds are allocated on the basis of criteria that are in line with the economic downturn caused by the virus epidemic, because at present it seems that the eurozone is actually trying to save its own countries. [[11.10]] The points of the proposal for a decision and its introduction are contrary to each other. The introduction is full of self - praise: we have wonderful economic results, everyone envies us, while we are envious of ourselves as poor countries expect us to receive the support we deserve. Why, then, did we not justify this by, for example, having Hungary represented itself with four Hungarian regions in the poorest 15 of the 281 regions of the Union? Or why do we not support our demand that the Hungarian average net wage is the third lowest in Europe? Or actual individual consumption in only two Member States was smaller than in Hungary! So now we don't need any support because the best of the worlds has come to pass, or is it that, unfortunately, we are still here after our entry in 2004? Will poor countries pay for rich countries? According to current data, EUR 7.5 billion is likely to be repaid to Hungary and will receive EUR 8.1 billion, so it is modest, EUR 600 million, but this salvo is positive. Jobbik, together with the criticism of the text of the resolution, tried to take a constructive approach to this motion, and to this end we tabled two amendments. This serves two purposes: on the one hand, to avoid Hungary losing its otherwise due EU funds. The enhanced link between EU funding and the rule of law is an innovation in the proposed budget of the European Union. This would allow the Union to suspend, reduce or limit access to EU funding in a manner proportionate to the nature and seriousness of the shortcomings in the rule of law. And you say it's an ideological condition. Then allow me to quote and list in detail what kind of expectation the European Commission made when it raised this. In other words, this reduction would be in the event that the Member State in question operates poorly its tendering offices; its prosecutors and investigators do not act thoroughly in the case of fraud involving EU funds; they do not prevent or punish fraud and corruption in the suspicious spending of EU funds, or they do not cooperate with OLAF and the EU prosecutors. I ask you, are these ideological conditions? No, these are the conditions for using EU taxpayers' money. And let us look at what the Council has to say about this in its recommendation, which it added to Hungary's 2021 convergence programme. Let me add: not the Commission, the Council. So it is not the Commission where we know that Brussels bureaucrats are sitting, and in fact they could not even direct a rural place, as we have heard from Viktor Orbán - the Council, therefore an organisation that brings together the Member States, has said so and added to the recommendation of our convergence programme: Investigation and prosecution activity in Hungary seems less effective than in the other Member States. There is no decisive and systematic action to pursue high-level corruption. There is no effective remedy against decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office which provide that there will be no criminal prosecution of a suspected offence. In order to ensure that Hungary does not fall from the EU funds it otherwise deserves, it must prove its determination... Mr President, 30 minutes is all the time available, right? [[For signal:]] Thank you. So he must be determined to correct these errors. The most effective means of doing so could be to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In this regard, we tabled an amendment to the Parliament's request to the Government to initiate Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, thereby demonstrating its intention to use European taxpayers' money in order to act decisively against fraud and corruption. How does the European Public Prosecutor's Office violate national sovereignty? Only EU funds and cross-border VAT fraud are entitled to investigate and prosecute in the courts of the Member States. 22 countries have joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office, from our wider region: Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Croatia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. So, outside Hungary, only Poland did not join. And would Croatia, a country that gained independence at the cost of hard victims in war, now so easily give up sovereignty because it joins the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Obviously, they are aware that this is not a surrender of sovereignty. And let's add, I answer to Tamás Deutsch: Jobbik MEPs do not support or support decisions that would lead Hungary to less support, because the whole country would be punished for the government. We are convinced that the oligarchs will still receive their money, and we intend to fight the Orbán system here in Hungary. Our other amendment concerned the focus on the use of EU support. According to this, the Parliament calls on the government to use EU funds to support the economy primarily to support Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, helping them to create high added value and to employ a quality workforce. Without party and ideological affiliation, many economists have explained this, that since our accession, economic support should have been focused on this direction, because in this case we would have achieved real quality jobs, including adequate wages. These two amendments, which, in our view, were clearly constructive and in the interests of Hungary, have been rejected. This indicates that they are still not ahead of the investigations, that they do not undertake what each country in that region, with one exception, will be able to investigate the subject of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, nor do they undertake to focus money on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. In view of this, Jobbik cannot accept and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-50	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform Mr Péter Jakab that the 30-minute time frame can be used because if you want to log in with a push-button, you can only speak at the very end when all the speeches are over. Now you have the opportunity to take advantage of the 30 minutes time frame without further delay. Are you taking this opportunity? [[For signal:]] Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speech of the Jobbik Group will be continued from its place by Mr.Peter James. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, The Prime Minister of Hungary seems to be preparing for another performance in Brussels, and now he wants to use the Hungarian Parliament as an extra. For my part, I think this is wrong. Parliament is not a biodecoration, it is Parliament's job, but it is not to assist the Prime Minister in his performance. [[11.20]] Since 2004, since Hungary joined the European Union, this country has received HUF 2.2 billion of EU funding per day and once again. If the Hungarian governments of the past 16 years had used this money fairly, Hungary should have at least approached the Austrian standard of living. In comparison, we did not approach the Austrian standard of living, but now the Romanians are ahead of us. [[Morai and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties.]] And obviously this is due to the fact that it is a significant part of this vast amount of EU money, let us say that it ended up in the pocket of the small family: the Butchers, the Tiborczok, the Rogans, the Rachels, this is what EU accession has brought you. Everyone else has the hunger and the poverty left. You are saying here, too, Prime Minister, that Brussels is giving far more money to the richer countries than to the poor, and this is not right. I agree, it's not right. I have one question: why do you give more money to the rich than to the poor? From this HUF 2.2 billion a day, why have they made themselves rich in recent years and not the Hungarian people? You are accusing Brussels of having the poorer countries pay the price of the crisis. Aren't you doing exactly the same thing in recent years and today? Isn't that exactly what they do when they tax minimum wagers just to make you rich? Aren't they doing the same thing when small people, small-time workers, and small-time pensioners carry all the weight of this country while using billions of sapphirungs of the Rippers? Yes, you can. You behave exactly the same way as Brussels. And that is precisely the result of Hungary becoming the poor house of the European Union today, and you now acknowledge that. In recent years they have campaigned that life in Hungary is better than in the West, the Hungarian economy is more soaring than the EU average. But now, in this proposal for a decision, you acknowledge that Hungary is a poor country within the European Union; it is a poor country that deserves more. And you're right, Hungary deserves more but Hungary deserves more, not you! This EU rescue package only makes any sense if this rescue package does not need to save you, but the Hungarian people. This huge amount of money must indeed be given to the Hungarian people; it must be given to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises; wages must be raised from it, pensions must be raised; taxes must be reduced; Hungarian people must be given money, so that they can spend, so that they can consume, that there is something to start the country's economy. If we do that, it's okay. If not, then all you do here and now is ask for parliamentary authority for your own growth. Not that if they needed any authority to steal, they would solve it without it, and the Bible cannot prevent you from doing so. [[Moore from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] By the way, it's theft. Do you know how to make a lot more money out of Brussels? You know? You don't know? I'll tell you what. At the meeting of the European Council, the Prime Minister should make an offer to recommend that Hungary is ready to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office for greater trust, i.e. greater financial support. If Hungary is the first for the Prime Minister, then he will leave the serial disk in the drawer, not a paper sword against Brussels, but he will say, "Here I am, I stand before any investigation because I have not stolen a single forint, not a single euro, not me, nor Lőrinc Mészáros, nor István Tiborcz, nor the others. If the Prime Minister has a clear conscience, he'll do that. If it is not clear, then we will obviously listen again to the usual text about Soros and the fact that Hungary is in fact a rule of law, even though you know that there is no law, but you also know that Brussels does not care so much about it. Stealing may still be. So I ask you with great respect to convince Europe, but, above all, to convince the Hungarian people if they know that you really want to save the Hungarians and not themselves with this rescue package. Please announce and announce at the European summit that Hungary will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office and make it clear that we are ready to save Hungary, not only from the crisis, but also from your own thieves, from you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Attila Tilki: 5%... James Peter: What are you talking about? That's all you have to give back? Or more?]]
u2020-07-14-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Several reported that the billboard had different dates. On the billboard, the 30 minutes will appear in one piece after the speaker's round of speeches has been completed. Please note that we are monitoring the timeframes, the use of them. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is István Simicskó, elected leader of the group. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2020-07-14-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is part of Europe for over a thousand years; the history of our thousand-year statehood proves that many of our ancestors have sacrificed for Hungary's independence and for European Christianity.2004. From 1 May 2006 we became a full member of the European Union, and the majority of Hungarians decided to do so. Since then, of course, we know that a community can be strong if its members are strong. So the European Union can also be strong if the Member States that make up it, the nations that make up it, are also strong. Of course, we should also look back for a short time at the fact that, indeed, the original intention of creating the European Union was to bring about peace and security, the creation of the Coal and Steel Community, and then the common market, of course, economic cooperation, economic growth, competitiveness, and let us not forget the importance of the social market economy. Today, however, it is sad to see that there are almost such worrying signs in Brussels that not everyone thinks so. Many have forgotten the old values, many have forgotten the Christian roots. The old core values and old goals have become obsolete, and today there is almost one standard: how pro-migration is. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, today we have come to the point that those who are not pro-migration, who protect families, who love their nation, and who defend Christian values, are being attacked. Dear Parliament, I'm telling you all this because we really have a historical period ahead of us. There has been an unprecedented epidemic in the world for 100 years, and this has put all the countries of Europe and the Union, both in health and economic terms, to a serious test. It mainly hit and hit very deeply those EU Member States that were already in a bad economic situation, especially those in the South. The only way out of the crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic is to restart the economy. Hungary has set an example for Europe in this too, even now. He set an example in the fight against the epidemic; he set an example in protecting jobs, re-launching the economy, and let me add, which is the most important thing for Christian democrats, including the protection of families. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has proven itself again. In the last ten years, the Hungarian government has shown that it can handle and remedy crises. It was able to avert the dangers of the extraordinary Danube flood; it was able to rebuild the Colontar and Devecser after the Red Sludge disaster; it was able to protect the entire European Christian civilization against illegal mass migration; and it was able to contain the coronal virus epidemic. Where is this ability, why and how was the Hungarian government able to do so? Ladies and gentlemen, Because we love our country. That is why we protect and protect Hungarian people and Hungarian families; that is why the Hungarian government has worked in the last ten years; that is why it has worked and is working in the future. Dear Parliament, This is why the Parliamentary resolution proposal before us has been formulated and stands up for the interests of the Hungarian people. Brussels intends to take up a EUR 750 billion package of loans. Of course, Hungary is not in need of this, but we are obviously in solidarity with other EU Member States, we understand their serious economic problems, and we do not want to prevent this, because we too have an interest in relaunching the European economy and putting it on the path to growth. But we need to know and know that, yes, it is a significant decision, because the loan will start from 2028 and will run until 2058, so we have to make an incredibly long-term responsible decision. [[11.30]] Unfortunately, we Hungarians have learned and know what difficulty it is for a country to be indebted. This is exactly what left-wing governments did, and by 2010, they practically put Hungary, the Hungarian economy, in a close state-to-state situation. Therefore, let me say in a few sentences and briefly the conditions set out in the Parliamentary resolution by Mr Speaker and Mr Máté Kocsis, my fellow Member, Group leader. These conditions are important and certainly provide a basis for the negotiations of the Hungarian Government in Brussels. First of all, to ensure that the credit package is fair, it is absolutely important to enforce the principle of justice, because that is what the European Union must always build on. So the poorer countries should not get less than the richer countries. The focus should be on economic growth, relaunching and protecting jobs in the use of credit. This is a very, very important thing, because this is the opportunity for the European Union to become more competitive in the world economy if economic growth is started, and through this all sectors, all Member States, can have an increase in resources, so that all areas can grow. I would like to emphasise that it should be political-free. The Speaker spoke very wisely about this in his speech. I would also like to confirm that, in recent times, it has been very, very sad to see Hungary, just when it stands up for European values, just when it defends the Christian culture of Europe against illegal mass migration, then it has been constantly getting backstabbings and hypocritical comments from Brussels. We do not want Hungary to continue to be blackmailed, we do not want Hungary to be threatened by such statements from Brussels, and we do not want Hungary to be constantly attacked on the issue of the rule of law. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, and this is visible and visible in its operation. We continue to work and work to strengthen the European Union, which is visible and noticeable. We see that, if these conditions are met, we can be confident that the European Union's economy can restart and that economic growth can also start. It is certain that, through this, the European Union can be strengthened in terms of financial resources and this kind of value, but allow me, fellow Members, to note that it would be important to strengthen the European Union in the classic order of values. If again the spirituality of Christian values, faith, could influence the decisions of the wise and leaders of the Union, perhaps if this spirituality is strengthened, such a situation will not be possible in the future, or if we are found, we will be able to stand up and emerge from it again more effectively. It is in Hungary's interest to restore the functioning of the European economy as soon as possible. The Hungarian Government and our MEPs are fighting for Hungary's resources, fighting for better opportunities in the European Union for the seven-year budget ahead, and also for the allocation of the EU loan package. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow Members, KDNP will always be a partner in this, to give the Hungarian Government the necessary support, to give the necessary authority to the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, so that he can fight effectively for the interests of the Hungarian people in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who also speaks about the platform from here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I also watched the beginning of the debate. I listened with interest to the speech of our fellow member László Kövér Fidesz, even more so the next beat of iron applause, the end of which is only the,, Long live the party! We've missed chanting, if you'd like to quote old times. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Dr. Attila Tilki: You know him, don't you? The president's ringing the bell.]] Look back one day, look in the mirror, it's really hanging by a thread, and I think next time we can listen to this. I was very happy to hear Tamás Deutsch's super-production as well. You know, from the movie "The Adventures of Ford Fairlane," I thought of a quote: "I didn't think I'd be thrilled by anything today, but this superproduction..." Let me not quote the part after it right now. But speaking of quotes, let me say that poor Attila József. Poor Attila József, if he had known and heard that László Kövér spoke of him as the conductor of hatred, but most of all, Mr. Speaker, as the subject of all the values of the left...
u2020-07-14-56	Congressman, I'm warning you. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Is it your decision?]] that he has agreed to a provision of the house rules on the basis of which [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Which one?]] I could take the floor from you. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Which one, Mr. President? Dr. Attila Tilki: Is it your decision?]] So you're just gonna say something about the Speaker of the House, which, I think, is gonna blow the whistle here in this House. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-57	Thank you very much. I do not think that Mr President would deny it, nor does today's speech disprove his feelings and comments on any left-wing value. So, in this respect, to quote Attila József [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Read the poem "Eliminate Me."]] I think the poor one would probably turn in his grave. [[Dr. Attila Tilki:]] Tamás Deutsch's speech and the speeches by the members of the Fidesz and KDNP in general: the highest criticism and the loudest contributions are due to the criteria of the rule of law. You object to the fact that the European Union is calling for the existence of European core values, such as the rule of law and the institutional system of democracy, against its Member States. Allow me to quote you once again, especially to Mr Tamás Deutsch, from your 2009 EP programme, because he may have personally marked it, as I understand it. In the present state of Hungarian democracy, he desperately needs control, so that it can even be called to account for the follow-up to democratic standards. At present, the European Union is one of its weaknesses in having difficulty enforcing its own values and principles. Our conviction says Tamás Deutsch and Fidesz that the enforcement of our common values and principles cannot be considered. The European Union should therefore be entrusted with the necessary means to continuously encourage its members to represent the values and to comply with the principles. [[Máté Kocsis: He's right!]] [[Máté Kocsis: He's right!]] It is a contradiction if we expect the Union to get the governments of the Member States to follow the rules, but we are reluctant to give this authorisation which may undermine our sovereignty. (Máté Kocsis: He is right!) From now on, fellow Members, it is completely unnecessary to fight with the opposition or with the left, or with any perceived or real political opponents. Answer me, please, what are you afraid of? With regard to a rule of law investigation, what is the Hungarian government afraid of? The Hungarian rule of law is not right, the courts are not independent? Is media pluralism flourishing in Hungary? Then what are you afraid of, fellow Members? Then why should an emergency meeting be convened, and why should the Prime Minister be given a veto in his proposal for a resolution so that this cannot happen? Perhaps it has been mentioned today from the Prime Minister's mouth, yes, in his interview on Friday's radio, the great point is that the situation in Germany is sadder in terms of the rule of law than in the happiest barracks in our country, because in the German Constitutional Court, you can also be party members. But perhaps today it was László Kövér, who said very precisely that parties could delegate to the Constitutional Court. This is an important difference, I think, in contrast to what is in Hungary, because only a party can delegate to the Constitutional Court here, and if someone does not understand the difference, then they probably do not understand what a rule of law is, what a system of brakes and balances is, and what democracy is. Tamás Deutsch also discussed direct sources and either misinterprets what we propose or deliberately misinterprets, but of course it is not about any proposal that direct resources, the funds for Hungary, should be a fraction of the resources under the current system; it is about that if the Hungarian government is unable to cooperate and comply with EU rules, then Hungarian people should not be subject to sanctions, but companies should be able to apply directly for the funds for Hungary, civil society organisations, local governments and even individuals. [[Dr. Attila Tilki, subway 4.]] I would like to say that I think it is all the same for Uncle Pista Kovács to fill out a request on the website of the Hungarian Government for, say, an EU-funded housing renewal programme or to post his data on the website of one of the institutions of the European Union. Tamás Deutsch says that the opposition parties act on the basis of an old communist guide, and he says that we accuse the opponent of what we are doing. What's this whole proposal about, Congressman? On the basis of this proposal, who is planning to deprive the Hungarian people of the money they deserve? Based on this proposal, what decision do you make? Isn't it to authorise Viktor Orbán to veto the EU budget? Aren't they planning to give Viktor Orbán a parliamentary mandate to veto the European reconstruction programme and the emergency aid to which immediate access is not only a matter of life or death for Hungary, but most of all for the southern states of Europe? [[11.40]] But, fellow Members, what you are doing is empowering the Prime Minister to even deprive Hungary of this money. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And who is threatening the Hungarian people's source and the Hungarian people's money? Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, the Prime Minister said that there is a danger that if the string is pushed too far, either by Viktor Orbán or by anyone outside the euro area, the project will be ready for the Member States of the euro area to take the next generation EU programme themselves. [[Gergely Gulyás intervenes.]] And then the Minister says, and we will quote Minister Gulyás that he is very good. Minister, you have just said that Hungary will fall away in the form of non-refundable grants and loans from some HUF 5000 billion, that it is very good. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among other things: Credit! The president's ringing the bell.]] If you think this is very good, then what are we doing here, Minister, and why does Hungary even want to participate in the EU programme? Tamás Deutsch said on behalf of the delegation of the European People's Party in Hungary. Yeah, and that's something that needs to be emphasized. Tamás Deutsch himself said that they asked the Hungarian Parliament to make the decision on behalf of the delegation of the European People's Party in Hungary. Then let's be clear about who Brussels is. Who is the Commission that you are scolding here? Ursula von der Leyen, a member of the European People's Party? ! The one who was elected to the President of the European Commission by your representative on the proposal of the European People's Party and the members of the Fidesz MEPs sitting here? ! Why are they talking to us? Arrange it at a faction meeting, my fellow Member, if you don't like it. The President of the European Commission is a member of your party family, a member of the Christian-Conservative Party, so do not be left-winged here. Try to get it done in-house if you don't like it. And who voted in favour of Article 7 against Hungary? The left-wing factions themselves? No, Congressman. Your leader of the Group of the People's Party and your fellow political groups, as you quoted, the European People's Party, the leader of which you are the head of your delegation in Hungary, they voted for it, or the procedure of Article 7 was launched against Hungary with their vote. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP submitted an amendment to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, a few years ago, or at least some of the existing Fidesz programmes that still exist today, they are talking about something quite different, and they represent something else, and they have asked their own voters for permission to do something else, and how much they betray the values and commitments that they have made not only orally but also in writing; and on the other hand, to resolve the situation that could indeed be a problem in Europe and Hungary. For example, from your proposal, we have literally left it in there so that no distinction can be made between poor and rich countries in this regard. We agree deeply. We would be very pleased if the spark of this principle would appear afterwards when you distribute this money in Hungary; we have not had much good experience with this in recent years. On the other hand, we say that the European Council and the European Parliament should not deal with Article 7 procedure, but that the Hungarian Government should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office immediately, precisely because the corruption criticisms and accusations that Hungary and its government receive are institutionalised! The country can drop it once and for all at a corruption address, and we should not be in such danger as in connection with the fantastic investments made by Elios, when you finally paid it from the Hungarian budget, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, they paid back to Europe the money they most likely missed. Another very important part of the proposal is that Europe has a job to do. Because we do not believe that any people, the voters of any country, can be punished for being dishonest or for not complying with the rules or for being corrupt. And these sanctions must reach the governments, not the people. Therefore, we are proposing that the funds that are due to the country, as I have just mentioned in its total amount, can be applied for and called directly, whether for Hungarian businesses or for Hungarian municipalities or for Hungarian citizens or civil society organisations. If you have the notice, if you have the goal, the application itself, it doesn't matter whether it happens here or physically somewhere else. You know, it would be understandable if Viktor Orbán tried to twist one more at the European Council. I'm assuming that he did this before, and I think, and we're pretty much aware that he's done this more than once by his predecessors. There are times when you negotiate hard for your own country. Sometimes, at the end of hard negotiations, even for several days, it stands up to bring home more money to its own citizens. But the fact that we are blackmailing countries that are fighting for their lives today, such as the countries of southern Europe, Italy or Spain, and the tens of millions of people living there, that their budgets are falling, that the jobs are going to be massively destroyed, that the economy is going to stop, that they cannot cope with the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, just so that you can deal with your perceived or real political fears is simply unacceptable, and you know that we will not be dealing with it. But if you behave like this, as Viktor Orbán also says: as the gods do, so will the gods, and then the collars and the cokes, I am afraid that he will not reach Viktor Orbán again, but the Hungarian people. Therefore, there is a huge responsibility for the man and the political community that makes such decisions on behalf of the country. One word, like a hundred, we see that at the moment there is nothing else but that you do not want to accept it, that you do not tolerate that EU funds for our country are not divided by one person and by a narrow circle of friends. And if anyone wants to get involved in this in any way in order to enforce the law, then no one should be given money, not only in Hungary, but also if we see it all over Europe. This is, in our view, a literal and moral betrayal of what you have described. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] What you have represented and what you have asked for, including your own electorate. This proposal cannot be voted in favour. Like I said yesterday, there's a level where you don't compromise yourself with participation, so the MSZP faction won't take part in the vote. Thank you for listening.
u2020-07-14-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mrs Klára Dobrev, who will also be speaking on the stand. We'll wait until the congresswoman wakes up to the stand. Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Hungarian Parliament! The representatives of the Democratic Coalition will not take part in this vote. And why not, it is very simple: because this proposal for a resolution, this vote is not about the reconstruction fund, it is not about how many billions of euros Hungary will receive. This is simply about the fact that Viktor Orbán is able to maintain his power by continuing unlimited control of EU funds. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Ask your grandfather.]] And it goes against everything we call Europe. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, since this proposal for a resolution cannot be voted, let us try to argue and argue about what Hungary we imagine, what is the huge difference in the way we want to give Hungary to our children, to our future generations. Let the debate be about what is most important in this regard. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell. ) And you know what the national interest is? We put this on ourselves so many times. [[11.50]] Although you are a little too much, because slowly tobacco shops are also national, so the national interest is a little more pronounced, but the national interest is also European policy, the European way. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Quiet!]] And that's how it was. That was a thousand years ago. A thousand years ago, we chose not Byzantium, but Rome. And if you ask the Hungarians that they want to go to Baku, Moscow, Tehran, as the Hungarian Prime Minister, they will answer that they do not! [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: to Moscow!]] When they go somewhere, they go to Paris, Madrid, Rome, and, yes, Brussels. Because this is the Hungarian way, and this is Hungary, which we imagine. [[Constant interruptions from the benches of Fidesz-KDNP. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-07-14-60	[[Without loudspeaker]] Fellow Members! Please listen to this.
u2020-07-14-61	What does the European idea and the European interest that I am talking about mean? It's very different from what you think. Once you're in Brussels, I suggest you visit the House of European History. Fantastic show. Our history is full of great things, but our common history is about hundreds of years of wars. We fought against each other for everything: land, colonies, religious faith, and later for national superiority. [[Intercoms in the benches of Fidesz.]] And do you know what one of the most busty pictures was? When women smiling in 1914 happily say goodbye to their husbands, sons and sisters and send them to the front because they believe that they and their nation are right. More precisely, only they and their nation are right, and that war, war, and war between nations will bring happiness and ascension. Well, he didn't. And four years later, nobody had a smile on their face. And yet with the same momentum, Europe continued to walk on the path of nationalist selfishness to World War II, which ended with millions of tears, deaths and tragedies. And, yes, Europe almost snapped there. And you know that there, at the end of the Second World War, on the ruins of Europe, is the European idea that we are protecting here. [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] And who created this European idea? [[A voice from Fidesz: Your grandfather!]] When you are enthusiastically speaking to your fellow politicians in Europe when you make personal comments, have you thought for a moment about who was sitting around the table a few years after the war? Have you considered that French, German, Belgian, Luxembourg, and Dutch politicians who killed each other a few years before sat around a table? Did they think about the mood in which the man who was sitting in front of him might have been driving the plane that just dropped the bomb and killed his family and destroyed his house? Or the other one sitting at the other table or in front of him might have shot his father, brother or son on the battlefield. And these people were able to take personal offenses that were right to rise above, and they were able to sit at a table a few years after the killing to lay the foundations for the Europe that we now want to belong to, and where we will stay. These people were statesmen! These people were high-form politicians! And these people have made it possible for us to argue here and at any point in Europe; not with fighting, not with war, not with personalism, but with hearing, listening, and smart compromises. This is one of the most important foundations of the European idea, that when the continuing struggle from nationalistic superiority of nations, the various alliances, which then break up along interests a few minutes or a few years later, that it led us to the world's burning. That Europe's new path is when nations, countries, fight for peace smartly, hard, arguing, talking, making compromises, sometimes arguing. And, of course, you can tell me that I'm giving a history lecture. Seventy years! How far was that? There has been peace in the European Union for 70 years. [[Intercoms in the benches of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Can't stand what he's talking about? László Fat: Yes, we are having fun, Mr. President. Dr. Ágnes Vadai turning to the president-in-chief, the Speaker of the House, Mr. President...]] Well, then I suggest we take a closer look. It doesn't bother me, Mr. President, feel free. Twenty-five years ago, you were all alive by then. In fact, as far as I can tell, a lot of them could have had kids in school. Twenty-five years ago in Srebrenica, we were just celebrating the anniversary of the couple... [[An uproar in the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] We remembered the few-year anniversary. We celebrated peace in the European Parliament and commemorated the 25th anniversary of Srebrenica. [[Intercoms, noise in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you for the repairs.
u2020-07-14-62	Fellow Members! Please remain silent and listen to the speech.
u2020-07-14-63	Twenty-five years ago, you probably explained to your children who were filming the history book that a very, very long time ago, people were, at some point, disadvantaged by their race, religion, origin, and killed, but that can't happen today. And when they explained that 25 years ago, they shot innocent, barely adolescent boys, men and old men into mass graves because of their origin and religion. Or when you believe and in history you see giant empires starting a territorial war? Come on, isn't it possible for people to be sacrificed just to get more ground out of their neighbors? Then look for a moment also a few hundred kilometers, just now east of what is happening on the border between Russia and Ukraine in the Donetsk Basin. No, ladies and gentlemen. The basic peace project on which the European Union starts has not been completed. Because peace is like oxygen. When he's here with us, we don't even notice, we're just breathing deep, and when they start taking him away from us, we start rushing into despair after air, and that's what those high-form politicians, those statesmen, understood 70 years ago, that, yes, Europe needs a constant dialogue instead of nationalist selfishness. He needs us to approach him wisely, understandingly. I have served my country in the European Parliament for a year. [[Moore, interrogations in the benches of Fidesz.]] I've met a lot of people. I agree with a lot of people, and I don't agree with a lot of people. One thing's for sure. To this day, I am amazed when Maltese, Greek, Swedish, Finnish, Czech, Hungarian, Slovaks work together to enable Europe to live in peace. And for the tasks ahead of us, the XXI. We can deal with the serious challenges of the century together in some way. This is the European idea that this proposal for a resolution goes against: that together we are much stronger; that we cannot deal with the climate disaster, rising income inequalities, international security policy challenges, but not even a pandemic alone. Because together, we're much stronger. And, of course, I listen mainly to you guys say that our national sovereignty is lost. Let's talk about this a little bit. I still have time. Being a sovereign means, among other things, that one makes his decisions entirely alone. You can count on yourself, you don't have to account for anyone, and you're responsible for your own decisions. Let's see how this is in everyday life. Imagine a man. Lives alone, has no family, no friends. He makes every decision on his own. He doesn't have any responsibility. And imagine another one, your neighbor. He's got a big family, lots of friends. Well, those decisions aren't that easy to make alone anymore. Even the simplest decisions of what to do this weekend, buy shoes for the kid, even have to be discussed. Constant conversation, sometimes arguments accompany one's life. [[12.00]] Would you say that the one who has many friends, who has a large family, is weaker, more fallen than the other who is alone? Of course not. And that's what it looks like in the nations. The people, the nation with many allies and friends, are stronger. We can take part in decisions that we would not otherwise be able to take alone, because Hungary is 10 million, but what Hungary is 10 million, Germany or France alone is too few to do. We will have the opportunity to be there for the most important decisions in the 21st century. In the century, at the table where they're being taken. If you do not go against the European idea. In the Democratic Coalition, we believe, yes, in this increasingly stronger, increasingly stronger and more efficient European Union. We call it the European United States. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] They may call it something else, but that's not the point. You're saying it's an ambitious plan? How much more ambitious than to say after World War II that French and Germans will work and sit together at a table? How much more ambitious is it than if someone told you a few decades ago that you can travel freely from Tallinn to Porto, from Budapest to Paris without a passport? How much more ambitious is this plan than when someone told you in the '60s and '70s to watch, and then one day, instead of the German brand, the Austrian shilling and the French francs, we'll pay for it with common money? If this is such an ambitious plan, then I am proud to be a member of a political community, the Democratic Coalition, which is working every day to make this plan come true. [[Applause from DK's ranks. Lajos Kósa: The free republics were built into a family, it was once before! Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] Orbán's policy is completely different, not what I'm talking about here. Orbán's policy is about how this cohesion, this strong Europe, can be weakened, how it can be torn apart. That's why he's blackmailing him because he's afraid, afraid he can't play it anymore, and he can't convince them that the policy he represents is for Europe. Unfortunately, I must say that Europe is not difficult to blackmail. The very reason why it is not difficult to blackmail what I just said is that Europe's foundation, strength and future is that its leaders do not want to go to war, that Europe's leaders do not want to break every debate. And I have to say, they're right, even if it gives political shyties or blackmailers a lot of space. And I don't think Orbán cares that we don't need the courage to point a gun at the head of a man who doesn't want to fight. Courage, you know what it's for? To the civilized debate, the arguments, the opinion, to listen to each other, to listen to what they say and to what they answer. Now, that's the courage, that's what the Hungarian Prime Minister is missing, and that's why he's trying to blackmail me right now! [[Noise, interruptions.]] Let's talk about a few sentences about what generated this debate. It is a cynical admission that it is precisely the rule of law debate that they believe Europe should be blackmailed; a cynical admission and an open admission that there is no rule of law in Hungary. We can argue a lot about why this is important. I can tell you that this is the second most important pillar of the European idea. The first is that we must continue building Europe together. [[Lajos Kósa: Time's up!]] The second is that the peoples of Europe have learned that weak democracies will sooner or later be defeated by tyrants. And the people of Europe have also learned that bullying will sooner or later become aggressors. You don't have to go to history again, look at Putin, look at Erdoğan. Therefore, Europe knows precisely that one of the foundations of a strong, cohesive and peaceful Europe is that the states of Europe are democratic. And the development and strengthening of democracy means that people are constantly growing, the right and the opportunity of ordinary citizens to limit, monitor and control the power at hand. That is what democracy is all about, and that is what the rule of law is all about. [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Be quiet!]] We have learned this a thousand times in Europe's history, and that is why we are so careful of the rule of law. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Is it so simple to understand: where to live a better life, in a country where the same rules apply to everyone that we make together, to build institutions that ensure that a citizen has the right to control power, or in a country where everyone depends on the favor of a person? You know this feeling, depend on the favor of a person, and depend on who is in the mood. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: Grandpa...]] And you don't have to go that far to see the teachers who are terrified of KLIK. [[A voice from the ranks of Fidesz:]] I mean, look at the public workers who were bowing in front of the mayors, or look at them, well, it's been amazing over the last few months that hospital directors and doctors have been afraid to speak and speak because they were afraid of retaliation. Is this freedom and democracy? No! These people have been deprived of the right to control power because they have taken away their freedom, they have taken away their security. I think I should also add that Fidesz is actually afraid, afraid that it will no longer be possible to deceive the European Union, perhaps even that they are already familiar with themselves in the People's Party. That's why they're blackmailing me. He says that European and Hungarian farmers, small entrepreneurs, health care, unemployed, nobody, only and only if they continue to be free to roam Hungary and do whatever they want. Pure extortion. But I think you guys have the wrong idea. When Brussels and the European Parliament and the European institutions defend the rule of law from the Hungarian government, they themselves, the Fidesz government, are not against Brussels, they are against the members of the private pension fund themselves, the trams, the invalids, the pensioners, the service pensioners; they are against the teachers who are being fired because their opinion is inadequate; they are against the investigative journalists who are being humiliated every day; they are against the free press themselves. And you know what I see now? You are facing the Hungarian families who simply want to find a free beach on the shore of Lake Balaton. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Autumn! The president's ringing the bell.]] When Brussels protects the rule of law, it protects them. And that's why they can't win this battle. They may achieve minor or greater successes, compromises, but the great battle, the betrayal of Europe's Hungary, will be lost. And what I can promise you is that we here, together with the opposition side of the parliamentary horseshoe, are working together to make this happen as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-07-14-64	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Was it hard to bear that a woman didn't read it? Intercom from the pro-government benches: Medic!]] I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. I would ask my fellow Members to listen to Mr Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-65	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Since the establishment of the LMP, it has claimed that the economic system that underpins the European status quo is unsustainable, that it does not work and that there will either be radical changes or that it will mean the end of the European project. The fact that the LMP is critical of the European Union's basically right-wing but right-wing social democratic leadership is not new, nor is it new, that a draft that is presented by a Commission president who has not been elected by anyone and which is incomprehensible to the Council, will not be supported. This is not new either, LMP has always opposed Hungary's dependence on credit from global financial circles, and it does so even if it comes from the leadership of the European Union's major coalition. The fact is that the unequal economic conditions that underpin the functioning of the European Union have not decreased since accession in 2004 but have increased. The fact is that although Hungarian people were founded on the fact that they were going to open a pastry shop in Vienna, the reality was that they were able to go to Vienna to work in a pastry shop for their wages. [[12.10]] We reject this, we think that we need not a Europe of four freedoms, but a Europe of four responsibilities, a Europe where solidarity is not just a story, but a reality. It is necessary to start by saying that European solidarity is a story; it is a story that the Hungarian government sometimes tells, and in part the governments of the Member States sometimes say. Let us recall that during the coronal virus epidemic in Germany, the political elite had two points of view for Eastern European workers: one was when he accused the Polish government of nationalism when he refused to allow the elderly without employment contracts to go to Germany to look after the elderly. The German government, led by the CDU, did not suggest why there are so many Polish elderly people in Europe without a contract of employment; this is very similar with regard to Hungary and Austria. I go further: the German government considered it the biggest problem during the Crown Virus crisis against Eastern European workers that Eastern European agricultural seasonal workers could not leave the asparagus to take off German lands. That is what the central Member States thought of Eastern European workers. At the same time, we know exactly that, and I would like to express Mr. Speaker's comment on the empires in this respect, that if Hungary vetoes, which I do not think is likely, or if there is any veto-like decision, it will be in agreement with Viktor Orbán's closest ally, the German Chancellor. We know very well that you are very reluctant to share sovereignty and that, at any level, other decisions in Hungary are decided on the same terms as Berlin, yet Audi, BMW and other multinational companies do not take public burdens and tax normally. However, the fact is that the German capital, which, by the way, is working together with the Russian capital, is the Paks II. Your authorization procedure and the Mangold case have clearly shown that you have no word against it. There's a freedom fight going on, unless it's bad for Audi or BMW. Furthermore, the fact that the rule of law criteria have been introduced is also a story. I do not believe that the procedure under Article 7 would indeed jeopardise your authority. I think this is because I have had the pleasure of watching the Brazilian soap opera with many Hungarian compatriots, which could be called Fidesz being a member of the European People's Party. We don't really know where this has come from, I think it's suspended now, but to show the European People's Party's incredible self-esteem, they decided that the greater party of government was suspended, but the smaller party is a member of it. This doesn't make much sense, the point is that the right-wing elites leading the European center countries and led by Merkel have decided that the Fidesz issue will not be resolved. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What does this have to do with anything?]] It was decided that the votes with which Commission President Von der Leyen was able to win the election should remain rather than do something about these votes. Here is the situation: we think that the conditions for this whole credit scheme are somewhat vague, and because its conditions are vague, we do not want to support this. Before the National Assembly, there were two vague credit schemes, and we did not know the details of which, hopefully, there will be more transparency in the decision-making process, since we didn't know exactly what we were paying for Budapest-Belgrád, and we didn't know that Paks II. in relation to which, by the way, was accepted with the support of the European Union, exactly what we will be paying back. What we do know, however, is that if everything that Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote yesterday is true, we will begin to repay this in the same year as we will begin to repay the Paks II loan, which means that Hungary will have an incredible credit burden in 20-30 years, a credit burden that was the last one in the eighties. The fact is also that this status quo is a credit agreement or a credit facility, it can be seen from the fact that it was actually spoken up only by states who did not want to give funds here because of their own selfishness. These states are slowly moving away from the veto. According to yesterday's announcement, the German Chancellor once again suggested that this might not be acceptable. So I am not sure that if this is not accepted, it is simply the victory of the Hungarian War of Independence, but the result of a back deal, a deal that the Hungarian Parliament will not be informed about. We do not trust the leadership of the European Union or Hungary that if we receive this amount, we will spend it well. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that he believes that such a large amount can be spent only in investment. We believe that investing not only in steel, it can be invested not only in iron, but also in human capital, it is possible to develop education, health or other human infrastructures by investing, and the fact is that if it is not possible again, if it is once again that Strabag will win this amount in some consortium, then we will know precisely that the freedom fight is worth what it was worth when you had the Hungarian Nation, and a politician called Strabag Nemzet. There are some actors who will be eternal pro-government, some actors who will always make them somehow part of the freedom fight, and these actors will also not be in the report to the Parliament. The thing is, the old reflex, which is this whole credit scheme, is also bad because the inequalities I just mentioned don't reduce. It is possible to spend on welfare expenses, and all welfare expenditures are not some post-socialist scheme, as Gyula Tellér would have said. Yes, well-being spending is the basis for a country's success. Earlier, the ideological principle that founded the Christian Democratic People's Party said: "There is room for a welfare state. The fact that KDNP supports a prime minister in Hungary today who believes that there is no foundation for a welfare state does not necessarily demonstrate the strength of Christian socialistic thinking. After all, the money invested in the welfare state remains here in Hungary. Strabag takes the profits out of Hungary, Mercedes, BMW takes the profits out of Hungary. If the wages of the medical educator increase, he consumes in Hungary, he does not take the profit out of Hungary. I go further: the fact that they do not deliver the profits is certain, because every time the income of people with lower incomes increases, it goes straight to consumption, not into bank accounts, it goes right back to the Hungarian economy, not into a capital market system where it will never be possible to get it back. Our position is that relations with the European Union do not necessarily need to be approached symbolically. We do not wear European Union buttons, we do not talk about the fact that the European Union is the best of all worlds, we think that it is necessary to be a member of the European Union because it corresponds to the Hungarian interest, because Hungary is currently a small country to be successful in international relations alone. At the same time, to veto the European Union and all common European policies, and then to say at the same time that the European Union is lame because these common policies have been vetoed and therefore cannot implement them, it is a hypocrite, and the Fidesz government practices it most often. It is not possible to expect the European Union to be effective at the same time if, at the same time, every single common policy is said not to be effective. There are some things where even we say that there is a place for a common European policy, such as labour law, some of the social transfers, or even environmental legislation, because Hungary will not be able to fight the climate crisis alone. Here, however, it should be added that although Mr Speaker said that Hungary does not want to be a part of the fourth empire, next to the fourth empire there is a very serious geopolitical risk, which has always been bad for Hungary in its history: when German and Russian great powers agreed in Central and Eastern Europe, it has always been bad for Hungary and the region. Now, when these things happen, when former German government actors appear in Roszat, Rosznyefty or other Russian companies, the Hungarian virtus does not appear, interestingly, we do not hear the outrage from the right-wing Hungarian government. At the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which the former Polish Foreign Minister said was the Molotov-Ribbentrop pipeline, we did not hear the Hungarian opposition. [[12.20]] First, Mr Zsolt Németh, my fellow Member, Prime Minister, signed the letter to the Commission together with the other Member States in the region, and then Vladimir Putin came to hold a press conference in Budapest, and suddenly the position changed. That's what happened. Then the Hungarian position became that we should take part in this. This became the Hungarian position. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Yes, yes! The fact is that, with regard to Nord Stream 2, and I know that my fellow Member within Fidesen is one of the more committed to Atlantist foreign policy, but that was the position of the government, he did not take action against Nord Stream 2. The Danish Government acted against Nord Stream 2, not the Hungarian Government. The Hungarian government has also smoothed down the German-Russian agreement, so from this point of view, I do not feel that the fears of the Speaker of the House are sufficiently sincere about the expansion of the German Empire. Finally, it is important to say that we are self-critically aware that, despite the careful opposition of the LMP, this EU credit programme could be created, and therefore we would suggest that, once it is established, what should be spent on. We think that there are major infrastructure projects and, as I understand it, this is relatively consistent with the government's position, which is worth spending it on. Such is the entire waste management system in Hungary, which is in a state of bankruptcy, such as the Hungarian electronic infrastructure, which needs to be renewed in order to become a renewable energy revolution, or so that agriculture can fully switch to the ecological economy. Yet we fear that if this money goes into steel and concrete, there will be three projects, three major loans on the Hungarian people in the 2030s, which the country will not be able to manage. Remember that in the '70s and '80s, there were very high expectations that credit could then be obtained cheaply, and then it was spent very badly. How did that end? The end of a system was a good part of it; the bad part was that a lot of people lost their jobs and a lot of people lived in poverty. We think we need to make every effort not to make that mistake again. The LMP does not consider this entire loan package to be a good idea once again, but in this puppetry you will be presenting on a veto policy that you have already agreed with your allies, we will not participate. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-07-14-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. In the light of the order of the independent Members, the first Member of the European Parliament to speak directly will now take place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have the same speaking time per independent Member. 8 minutes available, 13 Members' time; Thirteen Membership . You have the floor for 40 seconds.
u2020-07-14-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will be brief, and I would like to address the pro-government representatives in the first place. I am here today as a Member of the European Parliament to send a message on behalf of Hungarian citizens to all of you: we will protect EU funds for Hungarians and Hungarian democracy from Viktor Orbán. It is thanks to you that today not only the Hungarian taxpayers but also our international allies ask: where is all the money that Hungary has received? How is it possible that Hungarian democracy will not be built on EU funds, but destroyed? Less democracy means less EU money. If you break the rule of law, it means that you are taking money from Hungary. It's that simple. On the other hand, we in the European Parliament are working to give Hungarian citizens direct access to...
u2020-07-14-68	Congresswoman, thank you very much. I've been very generous. It's been a minute. Thank you. [[Intervention in the ranks of the governing parties: Unfortunately, that's it!]]
u2020-07-14-69	It is quite clear what your decision today will be about: decide whether the interests of Hungary or Viktor Orbán are important! [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-07-14-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-71	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that we all agree that we are arguing on extremely important issues, on issues that determine the future of practically all of us, which determine the functioning and future of the European Union, but at the same time there is a tight timeframe for this. We believe that, regardless of political agreement or disagreement, it is not worthy that a MEP can speak to him in just one minute, so I would like to give the remaining time of the LMP faction five minutes to Ms Anna Donáth. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Intercoms in the ranks of Fidesz: But he's gone! He ran away! That's how important it was to him...!]]
u2020-07-14-72	Honourable Congressman, It is for the chairman to lead the meeting according to the house rules, and the house rules do not allow that. I'm so sorry. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] House rules are 37. I would like to recommend Section 6 to your attention. Representative Andrea Varga-Damm also asked for the floor on a point of order, an independent Member. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-07-14-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to clarify a question with regard to timeframes. In the agenda presented, all independent Members and all MEPs, i.e. 34 people, had 8 minutes. I wrote a letter to Mr Speaker on Sunday to clarify, and I hope that is not the case. Then yesterday, I received a letter from Deputy Director General that yes, there are 8 minutes apart for independent Members and 8 minutes apart for Members of the European Parliament. I would like to ask you, Mr President, to reassure me that this is really the way this debate is going to go. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-14-74	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our schedule has been accepted. According to the agenda, we have set an eight-minute time frame for independent Members and 13 independent Members. That's 36 seconds per independent congressman. I think it's house rules. That's what I can tell you, so without further ado... [[Tibor Bana: There is no such thing in the house rules...Lőrinc Nacsa: Many of you have quit! Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: It has always been so!]] According to the house rules, if the first independent Member wishes to speak, of course he has the time frame, and this is 8 minutes. Dear Parliament, The order of business is closed. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group.
u2020-07-14-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Klára Dobrev. He lacked courageous arguments and reasoning. Looks like the Democratic Coalition has such a brave argument to tell you what to say and then storm out of the room. I would like to thank Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife for her history lesson; she spoke with passion about the founding of the European Union, but she listened deeply to what happened when the Treaty of Rome was signed. At the time, his grandfather and his communist comrades took away Hungary's freedom. And then they wanted the Soviet Union, and now they wanted the united states of Europe. We don't want any of this. She also spoke of beautiful visions of Hungary. The problem is that we don't have a vision of their government, we have a bitter experience, and I don't want to talk about her husband shooting out eyes, and that he's bankrupted the country, but about two cases that have something to do with Clara Dobrev. One of them is the Fittelina case, when, at a very low price, they obtained from the local government the villa of the Villa of Sight, which, by the way, his Communist grandfather broke down in 45, it is obtained at a lower price, given to an Kft. in order to build a 60 square meter swimming pool and claim the VAT back. When did all this happen? In 1996, when Hungarian families are hit by a Bokros package and tens of thousands of people lose their jobs, they build a pool of 60 square meters. [[12.30]] So instead of beautiful visions, it's a Gyurcsányist reality. We know that this is unpleasant for them, and therefore, by going back to the old traditions, they want the past completely erased, but I would like to signal to a honourable Member, who is not here, that we do not forget. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Group Fidesz, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2020-07-14-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me underline what my fellow Member Hollik said that Klára Dobrev just said in Parliament that we should discuss and argue. He came in with his horde and went out after his speech. So it's really hard to talk about something and discuss it. I trust you'll get what we're saying, by the way. Before he thought that it was oblivious that he had been here and had an answer, or that all that they had done to his husband had gone to oblivion, let some thoughts be introduced. Although I have only two minutes, I would like to thank both Members briefly for summoning the tight air of the 1950s, in the words of Tamás Cseh. By the way, this air was made tight by the ascendants. I would also like to thank them for reminding us that communism is not lost, it is only transformed, and neither is the communist, but one thing has not changed. The Moskovites have become Brusselsites, but one thing has not changed: unbroken hatred of the nation, along with unbroken commitment to internationalism. What was even more outrageous, however, I am obliged to stress back to Klára Dobrev: it is surprising and very, very strange that he is talking about corruption, or even a personal tone, who began his speech against the Prime Minister in the most insufferable manner, and he is talking about corruption, whose husband and family, for example, during their government, doubled the fee for the supply of electricity to the Hungarian people, but they gave the electricity to their own company at a cheaper price, or even the privatisation of the Balaton villas mentioned by my fellow Member Hollik. This is of particular concern in the shadow of the fact that the same woman makes it clear that Hungarian people are barely able to go to Lake Balaton on holiday, which does not necessarily meet with reality, but says much about its insolence. Allow me one more thought about the opening to the east. As I recall, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev's dog licked Putin's hand recently. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by its representatives at the expense of the remaining time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group.
u2020-07-14-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In my brief speech last Friday in Brussels, I would like to answer why it is important to present and adopt the resolution proposal before us in this House on the future of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who has read the submission referred to by the European Council is clear that the proposal is consistent only on two issues, such as protecting the interests of the old Member States and setting aside the principles contained in the founding treaties. What we see, ladies and gentlemen, is that the proposal does narrow the room for manoeuvre of the medium-sized Member States east of Elba, which is in fact not unusual at all, and I could almost say that we have been used to such proposals in recent years. However, the fact that Charles Michel's proposal ignores one of the most important pillars of the EU community, equality between Member States, is in no way defenceable. What we see is that the hardworking and constantly striving Member States, such as Hungary, are simply discriminated against for the very benefit of those countries that have not done their homework, for example, from keeping public debt in check to keeping the Maastricht 3 percent deficit target to falling unemployment rates. So there is a clear double standard in this Friday's proposal. Those who have failed to comply with EU standards on economic and financial matters have not only been able to do so without sanctions, but also receive a reward. I am just reminding my fellow Members that the EU institutions have not been so patient with us since 2010, and we have also had to endure a number of unworthy procedures. Mr President, So let the numbers speak. Let's take a look at the presentation. We see that the budget is falling by EUR 26 billion to EUR 1074 billion, even though many Member States have not yet had the reduced framework, and this shows the specific logic of the proposal. President Michel has a total budget of €323 billion for economic, social and territorial cohesion. From this, the cohesion fund, which is truly important for the new Member States, is worth less than EUR 41 billion for seven years. What are we looking at? That the EU would spend EUR 73 billion on its own institutions in the same period. I believe these two numbers are talkative. Mr President, Strict conditions for well-performing Member States and greater room for manoeuvre for the EU institutions. Well, that is what the Council proposal is about, as President Kövér said, from sanctions linked to the common rule of law to refunds granted to the richest five Member States. This proposal simply does not dare to contradict the 15 but it has the courage to go against the new Member States that comply with the rules. That is why it is important, honourable Members, that we elected Members give the government a mandate with which this unfavorable draft can be improved for us at first sight, and when we are discussing the 2014-20 multiannual budgetary framework, let us remember that the government has succeeded in improving the Hungarian position, and this is what we are looking forward to if the House supports the resolution proposal before us. Well, that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need this proposal for a resolution, which I respectfully ask all Members on both sides of the horseshoe to support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-07-14-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, on behalf of the MSZP fraction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, I may have followed what Mr Tamás Deutsch had to say, and perhaps the most plastic expression was that he accused opposition representatives of not having had such an example, that they dared to criticize the Hungarian government's activities on certain issues. In fact, he has repeatedly accused opposition representatives either in Brussels or in Hungary of lobbying so that Hungary could not receive European Union funds, or they were just talking about the fact that Hungary is being condemned on the basis of false news in various international organisations. I would like to recommend it to the Fidesz MEPs, and so to Tamás Deutsch, although I do not see Mr Deutsch in this room, he may not be so important to the debate, he must have had urgent business, and he went somewhere else... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where are the Socialists?]] Press a button, Congressman, and then we'll discuss what you're yelling at me, but if I'm honored to hear you say it, then do me the honor of listening to it. So what I am saying is that I would like to recall two things that might nuance this picture in Congressman Nacsa's thinking. The first is: The Christian Democratic International adopted a declaration condemning Hungary in 2003. CHAPTER VI In addition to Burma and Cuba, Hungary was condemned by the implementing committee of the Christian Democratic International. On a proposal from Fidesz, it was found that following the recent parliamentary elections, fundamental political and civil rights have been violated several times, that the police are influenced on a party-political basis, and that those feeling opposition thinkers are intimidated and removed from the public sphere. Viktor Orbán was also present at the meeting as one of the vice-presidents of the Christian Democratic International, whose initiative in fact included Hungary in the rule of law of Burma and Cuba at the request of the opposition president of Fidesz at that time. [[12.40]] The other one is just to help debate and thinking, and it sounds like 2006. Viktor Orbán would deprive Hungary of a thousand billion EU funds from the 25th month of X.C., at least that is what he urged in Strasbourg before MEPs. He forgot that the subsidies were not granted by the government he called a liar, but by regional development, businesses, municipalities and civil society organisations with ex post payment and very strict control. So when you talk about how unparalleled this is, and so that no one can criticize the Hungarian government's activities, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in two cases you have acted in such a way that you have specifically condemned your own country on a particular issue, precisely on the grounds of violation of the rule of law and on the basis of violations of political freedoms. Of course, we can also open a debate on whether this is good or not, how and where the opposition representatives of today's opposition or the then Fidesz opposition did so. All I ask you is that when you are always throwing double standards at double standards in Europe and double standards at home and elsewhere, you should be careful not to double standards at all. So if something is right when you are in opposition, by which I mean criticising the then government for violating the rule of law standards, then do not be offended if there are opposition representatives at the moment who are criticising the current government for violating the rule of law. By the way, no member of the MSZP has done anything to present a proposal or to lobby in Brussels to give Hungary less resources. It is possible to lobby so that the government, the Fidesz people or their oligarchs cannot steal it, or it can be said that these resources can be distributed directly in Hungary, but such a sentence, and I would like to quote it again or say it to my fellow Member Deutsch, has not been spoken by a single MSZP representative. We are always talking about ensuring that Hungary's interests are not harmed. We argue about certain decisions of the government, we debate what the government is doing on these issues, but we do not dispute that these problems should be solved without harming Hungary. This is what we propose in our resolution that if some source is removed from Hungary on the basis of a criticism of the rule of law, these resources should not be taken away from the country, but given directly, either by tender or by other individual judgements, to Hungarian municipalities or even civil society organisations. So I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the assessment of the double standard you have referred to many times is sometimes a problem for you, and in many cases it seems that your position is determined by your sitting point. I can hear and see the various statements, but I also remember their other statements as former foreign politicians when they had a different position with regard to Russia or the United States. That is why I say that, in this respect, you should be careful of the principles that you argue on, because these principles apply to you, as they do to everyone else. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2020-07-14-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to respond to left-wing lead speakers, going from party to party. I would like to condemn the ugly and unacceptable case that our fellow Member Tibor Nunkovics has done here by presenting it to our fellow Member Tamás Deutsch. We already knew that the Jobbik left Peter James's party, but now we know that anti-Semitism remained in the party. In any case, we have experienced this at today's meeting. We also see that Jobbik has come a very long way in a very short period of time with the complete elimination of principles and conscience, since in a few years they have moved from burning the EU flag to the proposal for full surrender of sovereignty. This is Jobbik's EU policy today. I would also like to respond to Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Klára Dobrev. He said he started by drawing up a picture of what Hungary he wanted. Well, you don't have to listen to his speech, we have a vivid experience of what Hungary he imagined and how Hungary was imagined. This was a robbery-privatisation, because most of the state's wealth became private property during their time, stood out of overhead, while the price of electricity was reduced for their own company, and it stood out from the eyeballs, because it was also mentioned here by the congresswoman in their debate culture that anyone who disagreed with them would be scratched by the arm-forces, their eyes would be thrown out, and they would be beaten in the street, because if they did not agree with peaceful protesters, it would have been waiting for them under their authority. We also see that they imagine Hungary taking away a month's pension, a month's wages from people. We also see that they imagine Hungary to be falsifying budget figures, and we also see that they imagine Hungary as being responsible for the preparation of EU projects as government commissioner Dobrev Klára, then they have prepared projects that were subsequently considered irregular by the European Commission, for which a debt of repayment was subsequently incurred and which were largely suspected of corruption and corruption. The Congresswoman, who during her term as the Commissioner of the Government, spoke of corruption, has exposed countless of these corruption cases from their development agency. What the honourable Member has left out of the history lesson is that the European Union is a Christian Democratic innovation, but unfortunately, the current apple is now very far from the founding tree. We're hoping to bring this back, bring it closer. We do not remember the past seventy years as you have, with a smile and peace. We remember these seventy years differently. You were talking about aggressors. We remember 1956; the congresswoman must have heard of this event during family lunch. We remember 2006. And we remember that you said seventy years to European times of peace, but we remember that hundreds of thousands of our fellow Hungarians, including our family members, were killed, maimed, humiliated and abused. One or two close relatives and one or two characters may be known to Klára Dobrev from this story, but unfortunately they were not on the same side as our relatives. We also see that it wants a European Union that removes powers from the competence of the nation state, which takes away the sovereignty of the country. We have also seen this at the headnote speaker of the MSZP, as Tamás Harangozó constantly demanded that we give the European Union as many powers as possible. Yesterday, for this proposal for a resolution, the socialists even tabled an amendment, in which they acknowledged in writing that the nation-state framework had already been exceeded, and they imagined that nation-states were no longer needed. Their amendment also included the fact that nation states are no longer able to ensure the safety and well-being of citizens, so they must turn to some higher power, some empire. That's what we know from the socialists. They always ask for international help when they cannot provide independent answers. When they don't have their own answers, they don't have their own pictures of their country, they turn to outside help. Although a short but controversial speech was made here in Parliament by the MEP of Momentum. All I would add to this is that they are a foreign operative party, which is the framework for interpreting their speech. We also see that the entire left wants Hungary to be condemned, to punish Hungary, to make slanders and accusations against Hungary, to withdraw powers from Hungary, and to make less money for Hungary, and to distribute European Union funds on a political basis. On the other hand, we want a fair distribution, we want a policy-free distribution. What we want in this joint responsibility, in this solidarity that we are making to the Member States in a difficult situation, is a fair and unpolitical distribution, which does not have all kinds of political-ideological backwinds, which do not have political-based division, but is aimed solely at the growth of the economy, solely at preserving and creating hundreds of thousands and millions of jobs in Europe. It is only for the purpose of re-launching the economy and for Europe to be competitive again. That's what we want. On the other hand, you have one goal: to condemn Hungary, to have less resources and to distribute resources on a political basis. We don't want to side with you on this. We are asking the European Union, and we would like to give Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Government the power to do so in this proposal for a resolution, so that a fair system, a non-political system, and a system on the basis of which the main goal is not to start distributions for political purposes, but to restore European competitiveness. That's what we're gonna work for. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2020-07-14-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to remember, at the beginning of my speech, what a huge loss Hungary suffered with the death of László Bogdán, Mayor of Cserdi, and the Roma community, who was truly exemplary in all the activities that he has done in his settlement and in the public life of the country from 2002 to today. Returning to this question, on 8 May 2018, the Parliament elected the Prime Minister of Hungary, on that day the government was formed, and the Hungarian Parliament authorised the Government to represent Hungary in an appropriate manner both by its domestic government and abroad, in the European Union and in all international organisations. The Hungarian Parliament has fully authorised the Hungarian Government to represent the national interests at its discretion and to do whatever it takes to address any question that concerns the fate of our country, with the greatest devotion, the most careful, the most attentive and responsible. Compared to this, this proposal for a resolution has come from Speaker László Kövér, Mr István Simicskó, and Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of Group. For me, this means that these three excellent representatives feel that the Government of Hungary cannot represent national interests without a specific mandate from the National Assembly. You know that's not true. I don't really understand this proposal, by the way. Besides, if Mr.Máté Kocsis, Mr.István Simicskó, Head of Group and Speaker knows how our country should be represented in the European Union, in the European Council, then I do not understand why they are not in the government, because my fellow Members of Parliament know much better how to act in this regard, in terms of borrowing and distribution of the economic difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Let me tell you that these authorizations you have written are not very specific. On the one hand, who are the rich countries? On the other hand, the big question is who the countries in the same situation are. The third question is that civil society organisations have not been involved in politics since then, because civil society is about politics and politics, but not in a public sense, for parliamentary or party policy, but in a civil way. I also do not understand how you would like to think that the rule of law at any time in a European Union or in any international space created by democratic countries would not be a primary issue, because without democratic rule of law, you know that there is no point in running a country today. When you talk about Article 7, it is my question, with great respect, why you do not do everything you can to bring the proceedings under Article 7 to an end. I would be happiest if these procedures were finally completed, because this means that Hungary is a rule of law, and there was no reason to initiate any procedure under Article 7. So, I feel that these powers aren't tailor-made enough, and I feel like that wasn't necessary. I ask one thing from the Government of Hungary: to represent the national interests first of all, and not to worry about the hateful battles in internal politics, but to deal with the fact that when they return from negotiations, they can tell the people of Hungary that they have fought the best possible benefits, the best possible conditions for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-14-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I asked to speak again because of Congressman Nacsa's thoughts, let me make a few minor comments to his comments. I would suggest to your attention that when you talk about all kinds of privatisations and how the state's wealth migrates to private pockets, it may be worth noting that when you talk about the loss of public money, it is also worth seeing how much public money and state wealth have migrated to the pockets of the fidesz oligarchs. Again, I would like to point out that you are always rejecting double standards, and it would be good to reject them for you too. I have one more question if Mr. Lőrinc Nacsa can listen for a moment during his consultation. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is talking to László Böröcz.]] : Could it not be, Congressman, that not everyone else is wrong, but you? So you can't be on the freeway, you know the joke that you're not going up against an idiot, but everyone else, about the joke, can't it be that you're wrong about something? Are we going to throw away this opportunity completely? So whatever this is about in the Hungarian Parliament, any question, any critical comment that concerns you, then everyone there is stupid, everyone is wrong, everyone is wrong, it doesn't matter whether it is the Hungarian opposition, civil society organisation, foreign, whatever wonder. You always do everything perfectly, you're not wrong about anything, and everyone else who says anything different from you is either stupid or lying or being mean or lying. Please believe that we all feel responsible for this nation. We're probably thinking about different solutions, so we're sitting in a different faction. So I just want to draw attention to the fact that sometimes smart people think about criticism, because maybe there's something in it that's worth considering. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-14-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz Group.
u2020-07-14-89	Mr. President. Dear House, Several times in the debate, the procedure referred to in Article 7 of the proposal, which is being carried out against Hungary, was concluded as a condition as soon as possible. There have been a number of misunderstandings, as a significant part of the left-wing opposition has claimed that this is the procedure under Article 7 and the question of ending this as soon as possible is the unveiling of some kind of anti-democratic system. Of course, nothing is further from reality. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal on the basis of which Article 7 was initiated by the Commission on the initiative of the European Parliament has, to a decisive extent, re-examined issues which Hungary had previously settled with the European Commission in a meaningful dispute. And that's the problem, and that's why it's not about democracy at all, but about a political club, and forgive us if we want this political club, which the left-wing Balliberal opposition is now using against us, to put it down, because it prevents us from discussing intelligent questions. On the other hand, I would like to take the political position that we represent against the position of the European Parliament or the position of the Hungarian left. We had already lived what Klára Dobrev talked about, only then did she continue the anthem, which said that the free republics were in league, because then the second sentence, we sang proudly in the time: The only thing that has happened now is that DK has replaced the great Russia with Brussels, the great Brussels, but it can simply be seen that they are completely unable to think of any other logic than the empire, and we believe in free Hungary. As long as the Hungarian people trust us and we get a majority [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary will be free and not part of some central empire. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-91	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I, too, respond to the speech of the most inspiring fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, when he makes new and absurd accusations, I would like to reply to that. I am quoting a speech by Tamás Deutsch from May, about the EU Commission meeting, because you said that Jobbik has also come to the point of total surrender of sovereignty and how it is related to Hungarian interests. He's giving me a name, I'm giving him a title, which is more important. He said of the opposition representatives at the meeting: "Don't just hurt, but fight. Stand up opposition representatives, representatives of opposition parties in Hungary, and say that we have many debates. There was an excellent MEP in the colours of Jobbik, the head of the delegation, he always stood up, said that we had a lot of debates in Hungary, but everything must be done about Hungarian interests. Then he was left alone, and everyone else said that what is in Hungary is terrible, and that some European Union institution should take the step of taking money from Hungary as much as possible. [[13.00]] The difference between these two, the former Head of Delegation is still here, he can give advice on how to conduct this behaviour, fight for Hungarian money, and debate at home about what is in politics. I note that the three representatives of Jobbik in the European Parliament, none of them voted in favour of the Sargentini report, which launched Article 7. [[Gergely Gulyás: But they didn't vote against it either.]] None of them voted for it. So I sometimes answer the absurd accusations, which you've told me many times, not that. Thank you.
u2020-07-14-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with pre-notification speeches in writing. I give the floor to Congresswoman Enikő Győri, European Parliament. Congresswoman, please.
u2020-07-14-93	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is an honor for me to participate in this debate, not as a Member of the European Parliament in general, but as a Member of the European Parliament elected in Hungary. I am European because I was born Hungarian. With your permission, I would like to teach you a lesson, not from Europeanism, but from the issue on the agenda, which concerns our country seriously. I do not need to convince you that the situation in Europe is dramatic and that we have not yet reached the end of the crisis. Economic performance decreased by 8.3 percent on average this year, but in several Member States the decline will be two figures. In Hungary, thanks to effective epidemic management and rapid economic measures, the Commission predicts that GDP will decrease less and that next year we can expect 6 percent economic growth. So the problem west of us is bigger than ours. Brussels would move Europe, in addition to its seven-year joint budget, with a loan-backed EUR 750 billion. We have seen this in Hungary: saving, helping, indebting. Our experiences are not very positive. This, I think, is something that left-wing Members can tell us about how this was done in the past, and how many and how long Hungarian citizens have endured the negative consequences of this. In order to restore the European Union's economy, we agree. It would be nice to settle as soon as possible, but not at all costs. We cannot build our next seven years on injustices. The cash allocation mechanism should take into account the specificities of the Member States. It must be measured politically impartially, and the logic of distribution cannot in any way be based on a series of injustices. What are the injustices encoded in the proposal that I am referring to? Let me name three. The first is that, on the basis of the current idea, they will find their place in the context of the conditions imposed by Brussels on the question of whether who can now receive, when they can receive, has performed properly. This would be embedded in the so-called European Semester, which was born during the Hungarian Presidency, to coordinate the economic policies of the Member States. I am responsible for this issue in the People's Party, and I see more serious problems with this instrument. Because he can't measure objectively. Over the years, more and more topics have been put into political pressure that are not at all in line with economic policy coordination. Here is a number: Member States cannot identify with it, since only 40 percent of these recommendations have been implemented. It is perfectly natural that EU money must be spent efficiently and responsibly, but Europe cannot be managed by central control. It is not good to ignore the specific features of the Member States. Getting out of the crisis is only possible with an individual response to the real needs of the Member States. The Commission should provide guidance, not a dictatorship. Remember what happened to Hungarian community service! The Commission criticized it, and then the criticism became a little fainter and quieter, and then it disappeared because the programme worked. The second problem I see in this distribution mechanism is that criteria have been laid down to help countries in the South, which are in great trouble. Do you know what these criteria are? Population, relative economic development in 2019 and unemployment between 2015-19. I'm asking what these criteria have to do with the crisis caused by the Covid epidemic. This carries a serious moral hazard. This is the punishment of the law and the reward of those who have postponed reform so far. In recent years, Hungary has achieved outstanding economic performance thanks to the conscious work of citizens and the government's actions. The epidemic has also hit our country on a stable growth path, resulting in a smaller setback. Therefore, in the allocation of resources, those who have done their homework should not be punished, carried out responsible economic policies, and managed effectively the crisis, such as the Visegrad Four. The third problem with injustice is that they want the poor to finance the problems of the richer. This is false solidarity. In addition, it is completely contrary to the founding treaties. Let us not be indebted, ladies and gentlemen, so that the Spanish far-left government can pay everyone a basic wage without work. A couple of numbers to show the injustice. 50 percent of the total framework for the crisis management instrument would be allocated to the five southern countries. These Member States are 82 percent of the Union's development. At the same time, the catch-up is still further backwards, since the share of 12 countries that start much later, mostly in Central and Eastern Europe, is 25%. That is to say, the region would vote for half as many resources as the much more developed southern ones. Ladies and gentlemen, Member States in the same situation should enjoy equal treatment. The citizens of the richer Member States cannot receive more support than the poor. With a broad development gap between Member States, we cannot build a strong, competitive Europe, and it is essential for Europe to be competitive again in global competition. Therefore, I would ask the honourable opposition representatives now barely present to put aside their party politics, to stand up for the interests of Hungary, for democracy, because the voice of national parliaments in EU decision-making is the most important instrument of democracy in our current topic and common sense. Support the Prime Minister to take part in the European Council meeting with a clear mandate. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congressman Bana Tibor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the short term of time, I am trying to summarise my position on the proposal for a resolution before us. As a responsible, independent opposition parliamentary representative, I said at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on European Affairs that, of course, I am interested in Hungary's best interests and access to as much resources as possible. However, with regard to the motion submitted, I find it amazing, my honourable pro-government Members, that the termination of the procedure under Article 7 will appear and that the question of the rule of law mechanism will be brought here again, which is particularly cynical. After all, I have said on several occasions in the commission and here in plenary that it would be the government's responsibility and responsibility in this regard, and if you were to do your job properly, it would not even occur that Hungary could fall from EU funds in the context of the rule of law conditioning, whether it is the next seven-year budget or the European Union credit line. And I also asked Mr. Secretary of State at yesterday's meeting, and unfortunately I didn't get an answer to that question: "If this doesn't work, then what's next?" It can be seen that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP clearly state, and this is reflected in the front of the communication from the government, that they wish to impose these conditions on the adoption of the budget, and that this also determines their attitude towards the EU credit line. Of course, I would like to point out once again that it is important for Hungary to come out of this story well, of course it doesn't matter at all how and what our country is using these funds, and unfortunately in recent years we have had a lot of negative experiences. My dear Parliament, I find it particularly unfortunate that there are sound political findings in this proposal for a resolution, and I think it is false that the government is talking about a political weapon at a time when it is you who are conducting political attacks against the European Union, rather than being constructive about the various issues, that they would be debating them. This proposal for a decision does not serve the interests of the Hungarians in this form, and I will therefore not support it for my part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[13.10]]
u2020-07-14-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-07-14-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I just couldn't finish what I wanted to say. Lőrinc Nacsa said that the opposition wants Hungary condemned. Please, this is not what the opposition, your prime minister, your party president would not have wanted, but, as I recommended to you, he did at the Lisbon Summit of the Christian Social and Christian Democratic Union more than ten years ago. Less money for Hungary, please, Congressman, the opposition does not want this either. Orbán wanted to achieve this during the Gyurcsány government, which I also drew your attention to by lobbying in Strasbourg among MEPs, your party family, to ensure that the Gyurcsány government does not receive funds. So in Hungarian: you lobbyed for this. And to be able to distribute resources on a political basis, what I really don't understand here is why the roof of Parliament doesn't come to us, that you're talking about how others want to allocate funds on a political basis. That's what their whole government is all about, handing out resources on a political and buddy basis. Therefore, I think, once again, that the double standard applies to you, or at least to your ban. He also talks about the position of the MSZP in relation to the empires. Look, I remember when your party president said that Hungary will be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom; that Hungary will be Putin's finch; and that nothing ever came from the East to Hungary but a slave's fate; and freedom has always come from the West, and that Hungary must concentrate there. Now we see that the Russian president comes to us as if he were coming home, and it doesn't seem to bother you now that you've become the happiest barracks of the Gazprom. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the independent.]]
u2020-07-14-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Minister, you have eight minutes and 35 seconds.
u2020-07-14-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am not going to take advantage of the time frame, but I would just like to prevent certain stories spreading in left folklore, which, by the way, are not based on real facts at all, and then it has to be repeated over and over again. This time, my fellow Member Mesterházy did this. In 2006, at this Strasbourg meeting, the Prime Minister said that the European Union should not assist lying, cheating governments who are falsifying their budgets. Now that my fellow Member, Mesterházy, also believes that their government was a lying and cheating government, I welcome that, looking back, it is a self-criticism that is absolutely important to be able to assess in place the horror that was called government in Hungary between 2002 and 2010, but it is not a matter of financial support that should be understood by the hand. By this, telephone conversations with Commissioner Almunia should only be understood as benefits that allowed the 2006 election to be cheated by the socialists by lying and do not have to disclose to the government data that all other EU Member States had to disclose in order to gain competitive advantage in the elections. We have never asked for this competitive advantage within the European Union, we have asked for a level playing field. We do not get this either, so it was a legitimate, justified sentence on the part of today's Prime Minister, then party president, which cannot be interpreted in any way as calling for the withdrawal of funds. It can be interpreted as it is understood with Attila Mesterházy that the lying and cheating government concerned the Government of the Socialist Party. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-100	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I declare that the KDNP Group will give the Fidesz Group five minutes of its timeframe. Dear Parliament, We now have further written pre-notification speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, President of the Commission, Fidesz Group.
u2020-07-14-101	Mr President, Dear House, This reconstruction package is extremely dangerous not only for Hungary but also for the European Union. I find it shocking that more people, including Mrs Klára Dobrev, do not perceive this and sound the slogan of the united states of Europe as proletarians of the world at the time, unite! Password. It is dangerous, although there are indications that the $750 billion debt community, the birth of the debtor Union, is inevitable, which is an extremely dangerous game. This means more pressure than a voluntary Union; it leads to a common budget through a common deficit, common taxes. It is an invisible step towards the federal European Union, but it is a big step. It's called stealth federalization in classic literature, jumping into the dark. The risk of collective irresponsibleness with the password of collective responsibility is extremely significant. And at that time, we have not yet discussed the impact of eliminating competition inequality, of lasting incompetence. The economic fragmentation behind the North-South conflict can indeed tear the European Union apart, but due to the demand for immediate and daily political solidarity with the southern states, Hungary simply has no other political option. So what can we do? Risks must be reduced; conditions must be imposed; precedents cannot be set; the principle of justice must be respected; flexibility, respect for the principle of national competence, policy-freeness and priority for economic growth must be avoided. In addition to reducing risks, it is also necessary to increase and exploit opportunities. Hungary supports, for example, the creation of strategic investments in the Visegrád circle or the cooperation of the countries of the three seas with a view to increasing its own and regional competitiveness, but let us not forget that today we are not having a distribution debate. So the government, the governing parties, are concerned not about European integration, but about a European Union based on strong nations and states. The Next Generation tool: the package is risky because we already know we buried our future in the sixth coffin in 1989. I do not wish this to be the fate of my children and of the European Union, which is why today's decision is being debated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2020-07-14-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I consider Minister Gulyás to be a very prepared minister, but I find it difficult to follow his logic, I confess. Orbán probably thought of the Luxembourg government when he said these sentences, and the great realization that he would have thought of the MSZP government was now in effect. This is not self-criticism; you explained this issue, because the articles that are about it show that when Viktor Orbán said these sentences, you were forced to correct it. So it's not based on opposition folklore, it's based on your folklore that you said the wrong sentences, and you tried to explain it afterwards. I'll read the MTI news to Congressman if I have to. At the time, the Fidesz MEP Kinga Gál explained this question, and in a statement to the MTI, they tried to refine what Viktor Orbán said at the time in opposition, probably then out of anger, but in any case it was about not providing any help to anyone. The European Union probably prays a lot for the countries, which is its strongest tool in terms of assistance. [[Deterioration from the independent benches.]] The other thing I wanted to suggest to you is that there are indeed legitimate points, and here in the debate there have also been some legitimate points from Zsolt Németh, or from Enikő Győri, about which we can and probably need to have a meaningful debate on what the set of conditions must certainly be changed. Enikő Győri raised a question in his speech that I would like to know what he meant. He said it had to be agreed, but not at all costs. What's plan B? If the saying that we have to agree, but not at all costs, let's assume that there is no change in the conditionality, then what are the consequences? I'm asking Minister Gulyás. Will the Hungarian Prime Minister veto this, and will this veto remain until the conditions change, and will this system not be put into effect? Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience. [[13.20]]
u2020-07-14-104	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-07-14-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I can repay Attila Mesterházy's approval for me by saying that, since he is one of the few opposition representatives who speaks in the debate and then does not run away, as the others have made a substantive debate impossible, I have the opportunity to reiterate that, if there is an opportunity for meaningful dialogue here, it is worth considering the other's arguments. So my statement was that the statement of Viktor Orbán's speech in 2006 was made in the autumn of 2006 so that the European Union should not assist lying, cheating governments, after the autumn speech that my fellow Member knew better or at least knew before me, because, I imagine, he was present at the group meeting, it is quite clear when Ferenc Gyurcsány himself admits how he helped him cheat in the elections, Commissioner Almunia. It does not need such assistance, it destroys the European Union, it makes fair competition impossible, it intervenes in internal politics. So I think that this is not an explanation, but a clear, clear answer to what my fellow Member has raised. The substantive question is what the Hungarian Government will do: if we do not reach agreement, we will not contribute to the package, if we do not contribute to the package, if we do not need a complete consensus to accept it, then the European Union cannot accept such a package. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Member that we have not concealed the fact that we can only support this package under certain conditions. But if you have listened to the opinions expressed in the parliamentary debates and government speeches of the Alliance of four states called the Fursak, then there have been much more explicit direct threats over the last few days that the package will not be approved. They are also criticising this type of EU package from a different perspective. So let's not think that we have to make a deal. If the agreement is in the interest of Europe and is also in the interests of Hungary, we are willing to support it, but let us not get into a misunderstanding.Today, it is primarily those States who have been ignoring the Maastricht criteria, which have been part of the Lisbon Treaty for years. When an open number infringement has been committed for years, it is not sanctioned by the European Union in any way. I think we can agree that if a contract is substantially violated, it is a violation of the rule of law, there is no sanctions in the European Union today, and we are discussing how incentives and methods of calculation can be found to benefit these countries against countries that are somewhat poorer or at the same level of development in terms of their standard of living. So if we approach this package from the rule of law, then this package is inoperable, it must be rejected from the point of view of the rule of law, because the rule of law would not allow us to make a sacrifice, for the sake of the Member States which have violated the Lisbon Treaty, which, by the way, the European Union has never been obliged to make in the past. But even in the spirit of solidarity, we are partners in this, but to make subsidies subject to conditions which are still opaque, unclear, and which can be used as a political accusation, it is obviously beyond what the Hungarian government can accept. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-106	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, independent. The available time is 1 minute 34 seconds.
u2020-07-14-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I could start by not breaking the sky. One of the children of the Little Clan comes here and lectures the Hungarian Parliament on democracy, then talks about the property on the shore of Lake Balaton, and then Anna Donáth walks up here in her elegant white sneakers. Anna Donáth is doing this as the grandson of Mátyás Rákosi's office manager, and, of course, this is the thousandth story when we have to believe that a communist dog will become a liberal bacon, and this is entirely a coincidence, and it is totally coincidentally connected with the communists, just as the predecessors of the SZDSZ had done before. I find this whole story amazing for myself, and it is extremely sad that these people continue to pollute with their person the platform of the Parliament where far more serious, uncomparable personal men could speak for a long, long time. For my part, I would like to say that I will support the proposal before us, but I also personally believe that this economic rescue package would not be necessary if three conditions had been met: 1. Anti-cyclical economic policy has been pursued by the states for which this economic rescue package has now been formulated; 2. they would have conducted disciplined fiscal management; 3. their economies would not have suffered from persistent structural problems. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-07-14-108	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Hidvégi, Member of the European Parliament, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Congressman, please.
u2020-07-14-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and all its Member States are facing an unprecedented crisis. In the 27 EU Member States, more than 135,000 have already died as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, if we count the British who have left since then, there are 179 thousand deaths. The unemployment rate in the EU is approaching 7 percent and we do not yet see the end. Now we are talking about a joint borrowing, which is on the table, which has enormous responsibility for all of us. Therefore, it is particularly important to put aside all ideological battles on the European stage, because restoration cannot become a political game. On the contrary, the current situation must be taken more seriously than ever, because 450 million European Union citizens across Europe are waiting for a responsible decision by European leaders. However, what we are seeing now is that the multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund have resurfaced with the so-called rule of law of the EU. This is unacceptable to us in the first place because in recent years the concept of the rule of law has been severely discredited by the European Left by reducing it to a political weapon. The left-wing liberal elite in Brussels is hiding behind this concept in an ideological war against everyone who sees the world a little differently from them. We have to say that the globalist left, to which the opposition has been so eager to accept loyalty over and over again, has now become the most dangerous opponent of freedom in Europe and here in Hungary. While they are happy to refer to liberalism, the values that have once centered freedom, they are talking about tolerance, while they themselves have shown no patience for opinions that differ from them. Not so much that today, for example, we have to argue with empty opposition benches here in Parliament, for example, and Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, after saying her long-standing thoughts, immediately left the scene, and the whole DK chip team went with her. It is therefore difficult to hold a debate indeed. Let us recall that political attacks and accusations already marked the years 2010 and 2010 on the European scene. This included the Tavares report, the Sargentini report. They were linked by the fact that they contained false allegations and had barely concealed attacks on worldview issues in Hungary. Or a few months ago, at the most difficult time in the fight against the epidemic, let us remember that a more harsh and lied campaign was launched against Hungary, with lies and accusations. This attack was also orchestrated by the same people, who carried the prime, who attacked us all the time in the previous years. That once again there were great lies, that not a word of it was true of all the things they used to fill the international press and public opinion and publicity? Well, that didn't bother any of the actors, either the pro-immigration elite in Brussels, the fake political action organisations, or the Hungarian opposition MEPs, who are calling on snakes and frogs against their country, who are shopping abroad. Let us be clear: Hungary and Poland are also being attacked with such anger in this debate, too, because we in Central Europe want to go our own way. [[13.30]] We have different views on the nation, we have different views on the protection of Christian culture, on the family, on immigration. We want to preserve our own country as we Hungarians have created and defended it for a thousand years. And most of all, we govern the country as the Hungarian people have authorized us to do, i.e. we enforce the principle of the people's majesty in our decisions, since we are talking about the principles of democracy. The European Union must understand that Member States choose governments on their own initiative. These governments are responsible for their own people, not for a political committee in Brussels. No misunderstanding, I am convinced that debates on democracy and the rule of law are important at the right time and under fair conditions, but this has not been the case in recent years. The attacks over recent years have led to nothing, to a complete lack of objectivity, and have only destroyed the credibility of the EU and trust between Member States. However, if the Union is to persuade the Member States to borrow together on an unprecedented scale, it is time to act sober and seriously; it is time to put aside bias, it is time to stop the superficial and unworthy political accusations typical of the past years; it is time to act fairly and unpoliticised, and it is time to restore mutual trust and cooperation. The decision under discussion gives the government a strong mandate to do so for the negotiations in Brussels, and I therefore call on honourable Members to support the proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I now give the floor to Mr Attila Mesterházy, who wishes to speak in a normal time frame.
u2020-07-14-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say this because I would like to reject Mr Volner's words. It is sad to hear what a representative worthy of a better fate can do for his existence. I wouldn't want to get into this, but since you agreed, let me have a sentence. In order to know whose parents and grandparents have done what they have done and what role they have taken, to make their children and grandchildren responsible, I think it is at the bottom of the debate. I wouldn't want to bring Zoltán Pokorni into this debate, who also has nothing to do with the fact that one parent was an III/III and the other was an arrowsmith, but we wouldn't in any way accuse him of having any responsibility for this. So what I would therefore ask, Mr President, is that you reject such disparaging statements. I know it's inappropriate and it's not right, and I wouldn't want to criticize his conduct, don't mean it that way, but these sentences don't fit into this House, and I deeply condemn this type of collective guilt that they want to apply to a family just because their ancestors have acted in some historical situation, wrong, wrong, or in any other way. I think that is worth saying in this debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-07-14-112	Dear Parliament, Congressman! I think that you can express your opinion, that you are right to do so, and that I ask you not to criticize the leadership of this meeting. In addition, I think that a lot of people can draw conclusions from the style of the Hungarian Parliament. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. I'm gonna ask if someone wants to take that chance. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask the Speaker, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Mr. Speaker, I would like to inform you that you have a time frame of 9 minutes and 5 seconds. You have the floor.
u2020-07-14-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your speech today, and thank you in particular for the participation of those who thought that there was a debate going on here, so they did not say your monologue and then left, but, as Mr Mesterházy has repeatedly spoken and responded to the thoughts of others. The way he reacted is another question, perhaps I would like to address it. First of all, I would like to start by saying that the Member may have misunderstood the motivations of his fellow Members who have been criticised by you. Our problem is not that Klára Dobrev's grandfather was one of his Kádár-Apró-Dögs, or that Anna Donáth's ancestor was the one mentioned here; we and the speakers probably have a problem with the fact that the offspring are nothing different from their ancestors, so they did not draw the conclusions and consequences that should have been drawn from the dark past that their ancestors represented. I think this can be expected in a country in which no retribution took place after 1990, although there was a demand for it. So I think that those who speak in this House, moreover, in this House, not in addition to this, so that they are not Members of Parliament, but they consider it important that they be allowed to speak in and out of this House, they may need to take into account their own family definition and speak with the necessary tact in the debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Although I said that there was a debate here, it is not necessarily true even for those who praised the fellow Members to listen to them and then to tell them theirs, because in fact there has been a dialogue of deaf people here, it has been going on for a very long time, and in this sense democracy as such is doubtful that it is still functioning in Hungary today. But I would add that we have nothing to be ashamed of in this regard, because if we look at the United States or any state of Europe, we see that unfortunately, the institutional system of democracy is beginning to lose its moral foundations, which we should think about if we take this seriously, that this institutional system that we have to cultivate in the long term should be maintained and that this should be our attitude towards and adapted. And the kind of abuse that goes straight from the larger part of the opposition keynote speakers is not fit at all, in my opinion. Because, after all, we are talking about a case that can basically determine Hungary's future, which is why I indicated that I consider the Next Generation EU instrument as a nickname, the Next Generation European Union instrument in Hungarian, because it is a cynical expression that the check that some people have accumulated here, and then our children, the generation of our children, will pay for it for 30 years. The repayment period starts from 28 and takes place for 30 years. So, whether or not to record this, under what conditions to record it, what not to do, cannot be arranged by referring to some vague European solidarity and to the suffering members of the international labour movement in Portugal and Spain and Italy, and by referring to the fact that we are already paying their bills! I apologise, as one of the speakers in this House said: are we financing the Spanish people to pay the basic income for everyone? Is that the position of the opposition? Speaking of corruption: in which parliament, which government is not involved in corruption? So let us not now accept any claims, either pro or versus, I would just like to say one thing to you: the Eurobarometer, the Commission's survey project, which does not otherwise enjoy undivided professional recognition, published its survey of corruption in Europe in June 2020, from which I would like to quote some statements. How widespread is corruption in your country? In this, Hungary is preceded by 11 Member States; I do not list them. Is your life personally affected by corruption? Here, too, we are preceded by 11 states, which are largely old Member States, so we are not talking about the newly recruited Member States, although they are also included. Compared to the previous survey, which took place in December 2017, corruption perception in Hungary has decreased in virtually all areas of the public sector, with one exception: these courts. I didn't mean to say anything, especially suggest, but that if the issue of corruption is always about Hungary, the public talk about it in the European Commission and in the European Parliament, it may be motivated by political ulterior motives. [[13.40]] And if so, we must see why Hungary is what we say is being targeted out of the 11 countries ahead of us, out of the many possible countries. And then we can't come to any conclusions other than what we've been feeling on our skin for ten years, that we're not one of them. Because as the witness said to Comrade Pelikán, "You're a bunch." Mr Mesterházy, the member of the budget frauds preceding 2006 is precisely that of our so-called friend, Mr Barroso, who was raised in the breasts of Maoism, but who was indeed delegated by the People's Party to the position of President of the Commission; who, barely warmed up under the members of Viktor Orbán and his government, called on the Council to suspend the payment of the funds due to Hungarians on the basis of the budgetary situation which you have produced, my honourable fellow Member. And they knew exactly what they were doing in your fall; they must have known exactly what they were doing since then. And the Austrians stood by us to prevent the dust from being destroyed in view of the crisis that you have accumulated, on the new government that we have set up. So there's no double standard? Are you serious? Are you serious, ladies and gentlemen? Or is Congressman Balczó serious that we should join the European Public Prosecutor's Office led by an agent named Laura Codruţa Kövesi? He who came from the head of DNA in Romania and gained recognition by proving his suitability by launching dozens of political lawsuits against those who belonged to the political side opposite him, including, among other things, Mr Balczó, against Hungarian mayors. They were dragged completely wrongfully, they were taken from their families at dawn by the commando car, and so on and so forth. During his time, as a result of the cooperation between DNA and Securitate, hundreds of thousands of phones were intercepted. If Comrade Ceaușescu were alive, he would lick all ten fingers if he could see what they were doing in Romania. The fact that Romania, as a state, remained operational as a result of its unbeneficial activity, which was obviously externally motivated, is left to the Romanian voters to judge. But do you really think that we should join this prosecutor's office because they're otherwise impartial, rule of law, and they're really guided by the policy of clean hands? ! I do not take everyone seriously, Mr Balczó, in this Chamber on the opposition side. I take you seriously, you're one of the few. I want you to answer that question seriously someday. I know you don't have time for this right now, but I need you to do this one day, please. How long have civil organizations been out of politics? Mr Andrea Varga-Damm asked the question. With all due respect, I have in my hand a summary of the report by the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control; it was drawn up at the beginning of 17 by a Mr Markus Pieper, which is estimated to carry out around 1.7 percent of the EU budget and 6.8 percent of the European development funds through non-governmental organisations. Between 2011 and 17, this meant EUR 11,3 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 60 percent of the funding in 2015 is 60 percent! 20 non-governmental organisations. And what this committee finds, which was then sunk, has not been allowed to bring so much on the policy of clean hands and the rule of law in the European Union, it states that the Commission's DGs do not consistently apply the rules on the financing of NGOs. Your funding is opaque, ladies and gentlemen. That's what a committee report says, which they wouldn't let me bring to the plenum. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The reason we have a problem with NGOs is because they're political. Yes, but not in the sense that they should, by the way, because they are right that the starting point is to deal with public life, but in the sense that they are avoiding strict rules on party financing. And what a party cannot afford is used as a kind of deep state agency in those targeted countries for subversive purposes. These are not civil society organisations, these are subversive agencies, which we know exactly where they are financed, not only from Brussels, but also from elsewhere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: CEU with domestic money...]] So the last one... how much time do I have? I apologize.
u2020-07-14-114	Your thoughts, Mr. President, will you stop?
u2020-07-14-115	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. I'll take the last one some other time. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]]
u2020-07-14-116	Thank you, Mr Speaker, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to short-term accommodation expenditure follows in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/11328. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before giving the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your opening speech, your further speech in the debate and your possible closing statement have a total time frame of 25 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-07-14-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is worth clarifying the reasons why the House should be involved in the provision of short-term accommodation and its regulation. In particular, it is justified because this activity has a wide range of economic and social consequences, and the situation is already ripe for more effective regulation in Hungary. We are talking about an area of the economy where there are tough debates in many countries around the world. These professional debates and experiences were also taken into account by the government when drafting the regulation. The point of the proposal is that, from now on, the municipalities will have the right to decide. If they want to tighten the rules on short-term housing, they are free to do so. The impact of short-term housing on rent and housing prices is a major argument in addition to the new regulation. This effect is a clear price increase. This is confirmed by international studies. Allow me to refer to a couple here. According to a research in Los Angeles, nearly half of the Airbnbs in the city were concentrated in seven parts of the city, where rent prices increased by 33 percent faster than the city average. According to a study in Berlin in 2019, only one short-term apartment in the vicinity meant that it would increase rent prices by 7 euro cents per square metre within 250 metres. According to a Hungarian study in 2019, the monthly rental of a 50 sq m apartment in the inner districts of Budapest was increased by an average of 13-27 thousand HUF. This is also due to the fact that between 2016 and 2019 this type of housing expenditure increased by 70 percent. The tax implications of the issue are not irrelevant. The second most important market for Airbnb is France after the United States. Here, public figures complained that the company still paid less than EUR 100,000 in taxes, because it has a base in countries with more favourable taxation. The Berlin tax authorities complained that Airbnb did not cooperate with them. Here, however, there was a complete political consensus behind stronger action. In another country, Greece, a quarter of short-term real estate was found not to pay taxes. In addition to rent prices, house prices and tax considerations, there is also one other circumstance in favour of modified regulation. It's not really economic, it's more of a social aspect. We do not even need to know the resolution of the Association of Common Representatives, because this is the case, but we do not need to know that short-term housing causes significant daily problems in multigenerational condos; which is no wonder, since in many cases the lives of tourists and residents who have been living there for one or two days and decades should be coordinated so that otherwise the basic means of dialogue do not exist. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in many European countries short-term housing is already limited. In Berlin, in 2016, this activity was severely restricted, except for those who offered their own excess rooms for publishing, and also issued a small number of municipal permits. [[13.50]] Second and many apartments can only be rented for 90 days in a short term year. According to reports there, 4,000 apartments were returned to the rental market. In the Hague, this activity was practically banned until the end of the year. This will allow local authorities to establish a list of holiday housing expenditure. London also offers a limited number of days of short-term housing, as well as in Amsterdam, where it is also completely banned in central districts. In 33 French cities, there is a 120-day restriction. Dear House, According to the bill under discussion, I would like to say once again that in the future, municipalities will be able to decide to tighten up short-term housing expenditure. This corresponds, as the examples show, to international practice. In addition, this solution takes into account the important fact that short-term housing spending has a completely different weight and consequences in individual Hungarian cities. As regards the specifics, accommodation services can be continued only after notification to the commercial authority under the proposal. It is a new element that a local government can regulate by decree how many days a private accommodation or other accommodation may be open within one year. If the municipality does not regulate this, the activity can continue throughout the year. In addition, the municipality may provide for a fine and a prohibition of activity in a regulation, if it so wishes. So much for specifics. I think that this is a proposal that each group can wholeheartedly support, both in terms of the specifics and in terms of the original purpose of the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2020-07-14-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-07-14-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 13 July 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to short-term accommodation expenditure T/11328. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes in favour in the exceptional procedure, 1 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is to regulate certain issues relating to the rental and issue of short-term apartments, resorts and other buildings not established solely for the purpose of carrying out accommodation services. In recent years, it has become very common in tourism areas, as the Secretary of State has said, that the owner rents his property for a short term instead of a long-term lease, typically for tourists. All of this attracted the fact that the exploitation of free homes and resorts was increasingly shifted towards business-likeness. The sale of accommodation services most often carried out by accommodation intermediaries via online platforms now represents a significant proportion of the travel market. Ladies and gentlemen, In many respects, the uncontrolled use of non-privileged property has led to a blurring of the boundary between accommodations primarily designed for tourism and private accommodation. The trend indicated raises a number of social and economic problems, which show the need to regulate the area. As an example, short-term housing expenditure increases rent prices, which is supported by a number of research projects. It is also possible to say that the increase in house prices in areas affected by intensive short-term housing expenditure in Hungary can be identified as a closely related effect. It should also be noted that in the case of short-term housing expenditure, the state and local communities are facing a significant tax avoidance trend. In view of this, various attempts have been made in Europe over the past period to eliminate tax evasion. The focus is on the problem that we are talking about, and it has also caused conflicts between living together in condominiums. The Fundamental Law of Hungary VI. Article 1 (1) and (2) protects the right to private and family life and the quietness of the home. In order to resolve the conflict of interest that arises, the draft law provides for the following proposal: the balance between the right of residents to privacy, the privacy of the home and the interests of the private accommodation operator can be achieved by local authorities, by providing them with an effective opportunity to act against private accommodations operated contrary to the interests of local residents. Dear House, In order to establish the appropriate rules for short-term housing expenditure, typically for tourism purposes, the submitted bill should be supported according to the opinion of the Legislative Committee. I ask you to support it with the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that there will be a total of 8 minutes for the groups to speak in 30-30 minutes, 8 minutes for the independent Members, or 8 minutes for the representative or representative of the nationalities committee. In the first round of speeches, key speakers present the position of their fractions. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-07-14-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, said, the Parliament is trying to remedy a problem that has many aspects and which has been addressed by both Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member. One of these aspects is that short-term housing expenditure, which primarily has a touristic purpose, causes a great deal of trouble in multigenerational condominiums. The Secretary of State pointed out that the Hungarian Association of Common Representatives published a resolution, this resolution in 2016, and they reported in detail on these problems, such as the disorderly status of housing hotels or the fact that they do not comply with accommodation rules, and very often the owners who do not check these apartments, hygiene conditions, or the arrivals often ignore the everyday lives of local communities and residents do not pay attention to them. Another problem, which has also been addressed by the speakers before me, is the serious impact on the rent market, as short-term housing expenditure greatly increases the price of rents. An analysis that actually states that in some districts of Budapest, especially in the inner districts, the price of a 50-square-metre flat increased by HUF 13-27 thousand due to short-term housing expenditure and, to a very large extent, increased by 70 percent since 2016, according to data from 2019, the number of Airbnb apartments increased by HUF 13-27 thousand. Another major problem, in which we have also received a little insight, is that the state and local communities may face a significant tax avoidance trend, and this problem is so serious that in 2017 the issue was put on the EU's agenda on the basis of a French and German motion. Indeed, this also causes serious problems in France, as the Minister of Economic Affairs indicated, despite the fact that the country is the second largest market for the company after the US, yet very little tax is paid, and EUR 100,000 is about what the company is paying to the French Treasury, and for this it has spoken out and expressed its grudge. [[14.00]] There are very many examples of how individual countries, individual cities, try to address this problem. Indeed, there are German examples where short-term housing spending has been banned for two years, and this has proved to be very successful, bringing 4 thousand flats back to the rental market. Or a deregulation law was also passed in London in 2005, regulating the market and limiting the number of expenditures in 90 nights for one year, and limiting the number of nights of Airbnb dwellings to 120 days from 1 January 2020 in France, which was not only typical of Paris, but also of 33 other French cities. As Minister of State has said, the proposal before us is intended to give local communities, in this way the local authorities, the opportunity to resolve this problem in their respective fields of competence, according to their own needs. The proposal offers the possibility for the municipality to regulate this issue in a regulation, if it wants to do so or not, to carry out such short-term accommodation activities on all days of the calendar year. However, if the municipality regulates this, it may also lay down its sanctions in the regulation, which may include administrative fines and a ban on activities. We can also say in summary that the proposal is forward-looking, we can see that many countries, many cities have already regulated this issue, and the regulation has proved to be effective. That is why I urge my fellow Members, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, the Fidesz... oh! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] I'm asking you to understand, I think it's understandable.
u2020-07-14-123	It's okay.
u2020-07-14-124	It's a better group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's nothing wrong with that, László Lukács, who used to be a Fidesz MEP in the House, so I think it's even worth the mix-up, but if you don't mind, Mr President, I'd like to stay here, and I'd like to stay here. And I didn't mean that as a criticism, but rather as a humorous remark, Mr. President, before... but I think it's mutual on both sides. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the current bill, I think we owe it to each other to roughly see what the whole of Airbnb itself was, behind the tech company itself, which, by the way, wanted to answer a real problem, and then, taking advantage of the technological explosion and development, became essentially a world order in terms of accommodation and accommodation services. By the way, the idea and the name Airbnb come from San Francisco. At the time, those who invented this were also faced with the problem that very many people in Budapest or in large cities are now facing, that in an oversaturated market it was impossible to rent a flat for a longer or shorter period of business or other purposes in San Francisco, so these young people invented to rent their own living room with an inflatable mattress and breakfast. So the name Airbnb came from the words airbed and breakfast. This was so intriguing in this area that a business model could be built for this, and the founders did not think that in 2020 in a very distant Central European country, Hungary, there would be a parliamentary debate about how they could regulate the regulation and technological novum they have created in such a way that it would be good for everyone. It was clear that the founders themselves were looking for a solution to a housing crisis, a suitable innovative solution, but they did not think that this would cause a next housing crisis and a very serious crisis in Europe. It is beyond discussion that several major cities in Europe have tried to mitigate the harmful effects of short-term tourist accommodation services. Obviously, we all have work to do in this, and this is a burning problem in Budapest as well as in the cities mentioned above. But I would like to add, and I apologize if this is too political, but I would nevertheless like to point out to the Fidesz Members that one of your fellow Members has acted contrary to what you have said, so that everyone in Budapest has access to housing that is affordable and affordable. Congressman Zsolt Becsó started buying apartments through his own Ltd., for example in the not-so-distant Nagymező street, from which he later created a hotel called zughotel by the newspapers, which was essentially such an improved Airbnb. He bought some apartments so much that he prevented the possibility of moving in even more families there by opening up a place to stay. The problem is not that he is opening a hotel, but that the already crowded downtown, where people would otherwise move to work or for any other purpose, are unable to move in, because very high rent prices have developed in recent years. With regard to the legislation itself, I would like to note that, although the aim is to have some sort of settlement and Jobbik is not on the side of the ban, but on the side of orderly relations, it is in the interest of all of us to have an orderly relationship in this case, but, for example, to give the possibility of the municipalities in a very difficult situation and facing the burden that has grown over the past few years, and to bear the responsibility to think about how, taking into account both their tax revenues and the problems of local housing, to determine what kind of regulation should be, I think, a relatively heavy burden on the municipalities. Perhaps it would be simpler and much better if we centrally, so the state itself, determined how and in what way this is possible and not left to the individual municipalities. It is also obvious and missing from this proposal, and I think that it is a very long-standing issue concerning Airbnb that is tax avoidance and, let's just say, the short-term closure of tax optimizing activities, which occurs a lot. At least half of the area of Airbnb and short-term tourist accommodation services is involved in illegal activities, so they are practically not taxed. This proposal should also have been aimed at resolving this, closing it short, and involving as many accommodation publishers as possible in the common burden-sharing, because that would be the only way to really and, I think, make good regulation on Airbnb. In this connection, it is worth saying that a solution to the housing crisis is indeed necessary. Jobbik has been firmly convinced since 2010 that a well-functioning and relatively beneficial public housing programme and a programme for the residents should be launched, in which, within a reasonable period of six to eight years, the tenants are young people who are found to have a family, so that families with children could obtain the rentals they live in and thus be provided with housing in a very difficult metropolitan housing market. I have also said this in the debate on investments in the rust zone, perhaps a month ago, that the aim of the investments relating to the project in a relatively accessible location in the city would be to create liveable and good housing, in particular using such a public rental scheme. We therefore believe that these Community initiatives should be restricted and regulated, not banned, but in some way. What we can suggest to the government is that what could be done more bravely is the exclusion of tax avoidance, the ban on the kind of tax optimization or even actual tax avoidance that is taking place in many cases. We can say that this requires a central decision created by a central will, and not the different decisions of the otherwise very busy municipalities, because it is only in this way possible to create a visible and predictable environment for a single, transparent and for companies, as well as for entrepreneurs based on housing and accommodation expenditure. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us foresees amendments to three laws: CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax. Act CLXIV of 2005 on the Commercial Law. Law 1 and the 2016 CLVI on State tasks in the development of tourism areas. amendment of law. [[14.10]] I can also join the speakers before me in that the purpose of the bill is to regulate in some way the issue of private accommodation, the legal conditions for the issuance of private accommodations operated by the public airbnb system. This regulation is important because this type of service system is a multi-level conflict of interest, which is becoming more common not only in Hungary, but also in all parts of the world, and in most parts of the world, especially where tourists often visit a large number of specific cities, tourist attractions, there was a greater conflict of interest, and long before that, the cities and settlements of the given cities, tourist attraction sites began to regulate the private accommodation service of Airbnb for the rest of the people living there. What are these conflict situations? First of all, as I was told about the housing market situation, the distorting effect on the housing market is a very important element of this conflict. The second is a violation of the interests of market-based, organised hotel services providers. The third, which is at least as important, is of equal importance: the harm of the inhabitants of the condominiums is what must be dealt with in this regard, and this is what the bill before us aims at. I believe that the regulation of the bill is very proportionate and has a very delicate touch on this complex problem, focusing primarily on the way in which many countries it is possible to limit and regulate the spread of such accommodation services. I also agree with the speakers before me that, in itself, this kind of construction is not a bad thing, it has positive benefits, but, as is usually the case with such initiatives, as soon as they start to operate on a market basis and with greater penetration and distribution, the conflict situations mentioned above will develop and justify the establishment of legislation. We do remember the Uber problem, it's similar in nature, started from car sharing, carpool movement, and became widespread all over the world through an IT platform. This private accommodation service activity, which we are looking at now, and what we want to regulate here, started at some point with the exchange of holiday homes and apartments between those who needed it, and it also had a particular movement and a specific romance, bringing people from a distance closer to each other and saving the cost of accommodation. All this, of course, required trust and direct control, there was a direct connection between the inns and the hosts, and reciprocity took place in nature, everyone could go to the other's apartment at the time of the holiday. In today's situation, it can be said that regulation is also proportionate in that it places the key issue, the key control option, who are best aware of the problems of that settlement, who are best aware of the difficulties that the application or expansion of Airbnb causes within that settlement, within that part of the settlement. In this respect, I think it is very right that the municipalities are authorised to regulate the number of calendar days the services and other accommodations operated by the private accommodation establishment can operate within a year, and it is appropriate to provide that, if the municipality does not provide such regulation, the possibility of using such services should be open throughout the year. I think it is important to mention that the distortion of the housing market situation is not directly addressed by this type of regulation, but, indirectly, assuming that the municipalities will use the possibility to limit the duration of the operation, it will indirectly affect housing prices or rent charges which have clearly and through several studies have jumped over the past period in Budapest and in other foreign metropolitan cities. I therefore think that it is also important for the municipality to add this area, because, in addition to the fact that they also have control of the local tax, they can also examine from the local tax side the fact that these accommodations are operated by those who have actually reported and authorised activities, their tax control possibilities are broadening, which is certainly a positive thing for the municipalities. I have to add that Hungary is relatively well on tax issues, thanks to a study, three quarters of the accommodations on the platform in Hungary are in the hands of the provider of transparent and notified services. I also think it is important to underline that the strengthening of this kind of local government coincides with the principle of subsidiarity, which will also be supported by the fact that the bill, the adopted law, will ensure that this activity can be carried out with appropriate sanctions, or regulated by the municipality, given that it will also receive an appropriate legal basis for the cessation of activities and the imposition of fines. Overall, I think that this regulation is trying to remedy the three kinds of conflict situations. We are confident that local governments will be able to make the right use of the given option, and will be able to use the right toolbox, so that the regulatory process that has started in several countries around the world will lead to good or better results in Hungary as well. Therefore, KDNP can support the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Well, good morning. It is the year 2020 and it is practically this year of the 10th anniversary that we are constantly talking about the May Other Politics and myself that there is a housing crisis in this country, this capital. Not so long ago, during the negotiations on the budget, or during the negotiation of some other laws, where housing has come up, these questions have been raised, and we have always bounced off the government side, that please, there is nothing to see here, there is no housing crisis, there is no problem here, people want property, and we will help people to own it. I kind of feel like I went through a magic door because suddenly, from one moment to the next, they started communicating something quite opposite. And don't get me wrong, Mr. Secretary, I'm very glad it took you ten years to do this, but you've noticed there's a housing crisis here. Even if I know exactly, and I think it is worth saying so at the beginning of the speaker's speech, we know exactly what motivated the creation of this bill, because the lobby of Fidesz tourism interests gave birth to this proposal, there is no doubt. [[14.20]] We know very well that, due to the economic effects of the epidemic and the collapse of tourism, the metropolitan and national hotel industry are in an incredible crisis, and, by looking at their communication and this fact, it can be seen precisely that, although it sounds very good that they have suddenly begun to worry about rising rent prices, the motivation was the lobby from tourism interests. But regardless, it doesn't bother me, it's the right of their hearts, it's not me who has to account for it, it's their constituents. However, I think that this law is significantly more nuanced than what the Secretary of State has said in his exposé. He said, Mr Secretary, that the municipalities would have the right to regulate the system of short-term housing expenditure, but that is not true. The law says that this right belongs to the government, and the government will regulate the system of short-term housing expenditure in a government decree. It is true that even at the level of reference, we do not know anything about the details of this. Indeed, the fact that the duration of how many days each owner can rent his apartment within a year is actually passed as a regulation by the municipality, it is true that every law is worth as much of it as it can be observed and as much as citizens respect it. I have some serious questions about the inspection. If the information is provided to the government, how will the municipality monitor such activities? So far, the practice of this has been lost, because so far there has not been much capacity for any municipality to look at the advertisements, and if they have found the advertisement for their own settlements, they have gone there and virtually so verified that it is legally, licensed, or in any other way, but is correctly operated by the given accommodation provider. The effectiveness of this is perfectly demonstrated by the fact that in district V, which is my constituency, we find a motel or hotel that operates without permission practically every month. Last week or perhaps a week and a half, I recall the effectiveness of the inspection when, with the technique described above, the I. district municipality caught housekeepers operating black or illegally operating. My question to the Secretary of State is, if this stays that way, how the data stream will benefit, how the municipality will get it. That's the basis for control. Moreover, it is worth noting that if we want to regulate the system of short-term real estate rentals, it is not limited to the minimum of the only factor that this draft legislation would otherwise give us the opportunity to issue the property. This is the idea of the Hungarian Tourist Agency, but I think that there is a lot, as has been said in the expoze, of other techniques that not only can, but also need to regulate short-term housing expenditure. My question is, why doesn't the municipalities get the right to do so? The same argument stands here, as Mr State Secretary said, that it would be reasonable to refer this locally, taking into account local specificities, to the municipalities, to the wording of the conditions. My request would be that the government side also support the amendment proposed by May Other Politics during yesterday, which would allow for a much wider set of conditions compared to the time interval. In fact, the time interval allows only that, where appropriate, if a local government determines this time interval in zero days, it effectively bans this Airbnb service in its locality, or defines it for such a short period, when it is no longer worthwhile, it is not worth maintaining such a service economically. But real regulation, as can be seen from this point of view, is necessary because of the rules of cohabitation with socialash. I also know such an example in Budapest, where in practically a condominium, the majority of the airbnb owners can now provide a majority of the people living there. So I think that a much wider range of regulations should be made possible for municipalities. Although I can support this proposal and the May Other will support this proposal despite all the criticisms of Politics, let us face it that this proposal, together with the TAB amendment, does not reach a sufficient level. I think that, as long as these unknown conditions remain with the government and are not installed in the municipalities, we will not be able to establish a proper and well-functioning system. I really must say, it is not a question of banning or allowing the airbnb to spread irregularly or without borders, it would be a chessboard with black and white. I think that, taking into account the rules of co-existence, it is possible to limit this service by means of regulators that can show the interests of the people who live there, the people who live there, and we do not lose the economic benefits of the service at all. I think that these decisions should be made by the municipalities. My favourite example is that in many European cities, the terms of this service are regulated in such a way that an apartment can be rented in the short term as the owner is registered in the property, so he lives there. I think, for example, that the municipality can't make such a rule right now, because this law we are discussing doesn't give us the opportunity. So I would like to ask my fellow members of the governing party to reconsider our support for the amendment that we have tabled, and I would like to say that, despite all the criticisms of the politics, the May Other will support this proposal, because, although not sufficient, at least the first step has been taken in order to put an end to the housing crisis in Hungary, in which, unfortunately, Budapest has a prominent role. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-14-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Dialogue has already expressed its views on the regulation of Airbnb on several occasions. I have also spoken here in Parliament on several occasions, because, mainly in Budapest, but also in several rural cities, recently, rent prices have risen dramatically, and the government has not acted in this way, thus putting the housing of small-money people at risk. This situation has led to the fact that strong young people, who have worked in full-time jobs, were able to rent only one room in general, since the average rental prices here in Budapest reached HUF 150-200 thousand, and I didn't even talk about the rent at the time. I have asked the government here several times to act in the interests of the Hungarian people. The answer was usually cynical, condescending. I was referred back to government before 2010, and I was told that I was wrong. The question now is what has happened suddenly, that this regulation is finally being introduced. What just happened? Well, what happened is, all of a sudden, the cake's really small, apparently. Because of the epidemic, obviously due to the crisis, tourism will decline in Budapest, Hungary in the coming years, and one of your most important economic lobbying groups, its most important allies and supporters, who have taken over the hotel industry in Hungary, I think this is what you have been asked to submit, let us start to limit this market. [[14.30]] So here's the thing: you didn't act because it was in the interests of the Hungarian people. You have acted because your economic lobby group has ordered this from you. By the way, I'd like to send a message to this group of economic lobbyists: I'm not sure all their calculations will work out, because the airbnb market is a different type of market. These people may not go to their hotels if they don't come here, but that should be their problem, they don't know tourism that well. This shows that they have probably made progress not because they have been so innovative in recent years, but because they have had very good relationships. Of course, they are not brave enough, or they do not have the knowledge to regulate this, you create regulations or you make decisions that regulate this market, but leave it to the municipalities. It seems to be beyond the government's ability to put a proposal acceptable to the majority on the table. But better yet, we are happy about this, because we know the economic policy of Fidesz, we know your economic philosophy, how they stand on this issue. It'd probably be better for the wealthy here, too. We therefore consider it a good solution, after all, to leave this to the municipalities. But again, I should have said this much sooner. We're going through a series of years of delays, making it impossible for several people to live here because you're taking a late step on this issue. We think we need a regulation and I'll join you here. To Mr Csárdi, which gives the municipalities the opportunity to establish a regulation aimed at improving housing conditions, let there be available-price apartments for students, workers in all municipalities, districts, but obviously does not punish those who use this service as a supplement to income, and not as a business. Let's say if a couple move in together and they both have apartments, then one of the parties can rent their apartment without any special penalty, get it into this service. It is very important that abuses should also be curbed in this area. There are many who do not pay after this service while using and registering sija, local government taxes. If this could be tightened up, this service could be reduced by up to 20-30 percent, obviously lower prices. We hope that all municipalities will regulate these aspects, and that is why we support this proposal. I think that if opposition authorities have a wider opportunity, they are not afraid of difficult decisions, they are not afraid to make them for the benefit of the Hungarian people, so they will make these decisions. I think that this is a first acceptable step, a good step, but further steps are needed in order to better regulate this market. The Dialogue supports this proposal in this form. We are obviously not taking part in today's EU manipulation charade, so we are not taking part in the vote, but we support this proposal in this form and we believe that further similar steps are needed. Thank you very much.
u2020-07-14-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. No one signed up for this. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, an independent Member, who asked for the floor in a normal time frame. You have eight minutes.
u2020-07-14-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The negative consequences of the airbnb housing model have been overwhelming in recent years. The social consequences of this are also known. Among the social consequences, we can mention in no small part thousands of cheap overtourists, rising rent prices and reduced tax revenues from housing expenditure in this way. What I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, on which Members have not yet spoken before me, nor does the bill before us, is that these are interrelated issues, and, unlike Antal Csárdi, I see responsibility issues differently. Why can't this bill be left to the municipalities at the same time? Why is the solution to this bill not left to the municipalities? It is simply because social policy issues are the subject of this bill, in particular the fact that people are being crowded out of the inner areas of large cities that represent growth poles because they cannot afford to pay the high rent prices. On the other hand, not one district government must act in Budapest, but this must be coordinated at government level. For the record, I should have done it a lot sooner than this bill was filed. I also know of several personal examples where the Covid epidemic has reduced rent prices and reflect the reality of the rent market that, compared to the income previously realised by the owners, the monthly rent was less than half the size of the apartments in these internal areas that the owners could have realised through the airbnb model. I would like to address here, my fellow Members, another area, what else this bill should respond to, and I would like to highlight a section of the related group of problems. One is that the problem of residential and party quarters in Budapest was a regular conflict. This was mainly combined with Budapest VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. in the vicinity of the region. However, it is also very important to see that there is no single urban development concept, as it has never been in the last 30 years. There were vague ideas 20 years ago that the area around Nagymező utca would be suitable for a party quarter, but they were not carried through, the development of the party district was practically spontaneous, and the social impact was assessed by no one at the municipal or governmental level, and no one tried to plan it. Thus, there was a spontaneous creation of a lounge, which, by the way, rightly disturbs the people who live there. It is very important to see that rust zones, which I hope will be developed by another bill, such as the island of Shipyard and the island of Népsziget, also known as the island of Mosquito, would be an opportunity to provide cheaper tourists, party tourists, with sufficient accommodation in areas of a mass of nightclubs, where, moreover, there is no local population who would be disturbed by this type of tourism, unlike Budapest, V., VI. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. the perimeter. So I would ask the government to consider the possibility of placing in these areas entertainment quarters, entertainment facilities that take over and take over at least one part of the heavy pressure on the internal areas of Budapest. I am convinced that Budapest will be better off if tourism does not grow within its inner areas, not in the inner districts, it does not appear in the form of much over-tourism, it goes further, it goes into another tourist destination, and in this way we manage to reduce the impact of tourism on the city centre, and it is also territorially outsourced. I note that this kind of development of tourist destinations has become a global trend due to overtourism, and this has been recognised one after another by the leaders of governments and municipalities with better vision than in Hungary and Budapest. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-07-14-134	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What I'm about to say will be unusual. A 46-year-old Gypsy man, László Bogdán, mayor of Cserdi, died, the man for the cause of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence, the 21st. In the first century he did more than a German sociologist and such a scientist, whatever party he was connected to. [[14.40]] This gypsy man gave us all a lesson, gave up to Hungarians, gave up to Gypsies. His tragic sudden death shocked everyone. He gave us the lesson, too, because he did make us realize that we should give a helping hand to the gypsy people who were born Gypsies, but who took responsibility for the future of their children in learning and working, and we cannot hit this hand that turned to help us. And he also gave up his lesson to gypsyism because he had the courage to say, as a gypsy man, that mandatory standards of coexistence for all must be respected. They attacked him from all sides. He set an example and brought back this tiny village of Baranya, Cserdi, from the porch of hell. I would like to say a few more sentences about this man, because his death, as I said, came suddenly and shocked everyone. There will be no opportunity for us to remember it here, within the walls of this House, and to bow our heads, to show the respect that has been achieved by him in the form of work laid down on the table together. My fellow Members, he was the man who dreamed of Lasipa, the Gypsy Lecso, saying that his slogan would be that we did not steal it, but produced it, and, if necessary, offered it for charity purposes. He worked so that his community could go on a journey that would serve the salvation of this country. I think that as a gypsy person, as a public figure, and as a public figure, not as a politician, because he has always rejected this title from himself, he does not want to be a whore of any side, so to speak, so as a community person, as a public figure, I think he deserves respect, because we have often said that one of the most important tasks of the coming decades will be the integration of Gypsy in Hungary, the solution to the issue of Roma-Hungarian coexistence. László Bogdán's life and work are exactly examples of how change can be made, and if this change takes place in the right direction, then it is our dog's duty to support and help this change. On behalf of the Jobbik faction, we express our sincere grief to the mayor's family, and here we wish to remember what he did, what he wanted to achieve, so that the gypsy plutonium he spoke of does not explode. Thank you for your attention and thank you, Mr President, for your patience. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-07-14-136	Thank you, Congressman. Please stand up. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2020-07-14-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thanking the fellow Members for their patience, allow me to respond briefly to the suggestions made by the Jobbik faction. I would like to stress that it is not a prohibition, but that the municipalities will have the opportunity to introduce stricter rules if they see it as the right thing to do. Knowledge, the proper knowledge of what the local impact of this type of accommodation is, they have it. I would argue that there is a burden on the municipalities, given that the government has taken over over over a thousand billion debts, by the way, together with tasks, it has taken over, so it has reduced the burden on the municipalities years ago. I agree that we also have to deal with the tax avoidance aspects. Now I don't want to give tips to municipalities, but it's worth, let's say, to look at the Greek example, where they have developed a program that can filter out advertisements that don't have a registration number. In Berlin, too, real estate can only be issued with registration numbers, and is also subject to penalties. In Denmark, those who are willing to enter into agreements with the Danish authorities will be rewarded by the scheme, the housing service providers. There must be a registration number in Paris in the advertisements, and there is an intensive cooperation between the tax authority and Airbnb in Barcelona. I'm saying this separately because I remember from the days that one of the district councils might be the VI. He was in the district complaining that Airbnb refused to cooperate with them. So there are existing international examples of effective cooperation between authorities and airbnbs. I would like to say to Mr Csárdi that the notaries, the local notaries, can continue to monitor the operation of the accommodations. In addition, the provision of public data is linked to national accommodation statistics, in which all accommodations are included. On the issue of taxes, and even before I go there, Congressman Kocsis, it is worth knowing, and professional organisations often find out that the audience of hotels and Airbnb apartments is completely different. You probably know that. I see that you should allow me to say that they are at war with the actors in the tourism sector, which is not right because you know that in the spring there was an example of a 97 percent decrease in turnover, which means that the Hungarian government must also give a helping hand to this sector, and you have done so. I'm asking you not to engage in warfare against them. What I see is that, although the good news is that they have also spoken in support of this proposal, we have a serious debate on two points. For example, I see that individual municipalities would also use this opportunity to raise taxes. Some of Jobbik's actors have spoken about the need for a special tax; there is a DK mayor who has said that these actors should pay taxes properly. So, I would warn against this type of possibility opening the back door to large-scale tax increases. The government doesn't want to raise taxes. There's another issue, and that's a question of rentals. We maintain the position that we want as many Hungarian families as possible to own their own property, and in this respect I see that this debate exists between us. The present proposal is not the first to help Hungarian families in housing matters. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 136,000 families have been helped so far only by the family home-building discount of HUF 425 billion, which has helped almost half a million people, and I have not yet talked about the baby shower support that can be used by those who do not have more children. Dear House, In summary, municipalities have all the means and knowledge in principle to act on their own and, if necessary, tighten up, taking into account the feedback of the local people. This is an area where we have to take account of the development of rent prices and housing prices at the same time, as shown in recent years, of the increase in tourism development and tax aspects, and of the impact of short-term housing on the lives of people who have lived locally for decades. We believe that the amendment tabled strikes a good balance between these aspects and, above all, an opportunity to alleviate the rise in rent and property prices. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-07-14-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. My fellow Members, please remain in your seats and we will continue our work with decisions. [[It's a short break.]] [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats, we're gonna need a presence check. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 141; away: 57.]] Dear Parliament, Following a series of comments by the Commission on the economic impact of the coronal virus on the Union market, the Commission concluded that the measures in force were not compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that the measures in force were compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/11282. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 128 votes to 16, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Following is T/11328 on the amendment of certain laws relating to short-term accommodation expenditure. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/11328/3 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment and its summary report T/11328/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/11328/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/11328. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 149 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of our decision, and now I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. I wish you a good rest for the summer. [[To László Fat:]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with post-meeting speeches. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Those who may not wish to attend the rest of the meeting, please leave the Chamber quietly. After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group, asked for a speech on the situation in the countryside. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-07-14-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, I am talking about the situation in the countryside, and if it is the situation in the countryside, then it must be about a tragic event today. [[15.00]] I think you've all heard the news that today, tragically, the Mayor of Cserdi in Baranya County, László Bogdán, died at the age of 46. I think that we have lost a tragedy, a small town mayor in the country, who, we can say, was a very tough, very outspoken man, and bravely, he dealt with the intention of improving, of doing things that many people have not even dared to talk about. He was an infinitely authentic man; he was not a politician, he was a mayor, he was a man who worked for Gypsy; he was a man who worked for the small settlement; he was a man who worked for the Hungarian countryside. He had a lot of results on the table, but we can say that he had a lot ahead of him, a lot of work ahead of him. In every way, his early departure is a tragedy. On behalf of the LMP faction, I would like to express our condolences to everyone close to Mayor László Bogdán. And if the situation is already in the countryside, I must also respond to the fact that a few days ago Prime Minister made a statement that I would like to quote as accurately as possible that we are no longer far away from saying that today a Hungarian village can live or live a life of the same quality as the capital. I think that it may be clear to everyone that this was an excessive statement from Prime Minister. Knowing the situation in the countryside, knowing that in many cases the situation of small settlements in the peripheral region is almost hopeless, I think that it is not worthy of the Prime Minister to make such a statement, especially if we consider that Fidesz has always been a pro-ruralist in terms of rhetoric, it has always stood up for the villages and the countryside. At the same time, we can say that, unfortunately, there is a substantial change from the pre-2010 period, even if there are positives in the rural policy of the Hungarian government, especially in peripheral rural areas, we cannot discover it. And even in recent times, there have been a lot of measures that, let alone help the small villages survive, the development of small villages, but that is contrary to that. We can think here not so long ago of restrictive, restrictive measures that have freed or deprived villages of an important part of their income; the taking away of motor vehicle taxes is typically very detrimental to small settlements. However, we can also see that 34 railway sidelines with an outrageous measure were virtually sentenced to death by reference to an epidemiological measure. This is also an anti-rural attack on small villages. Let us say that we may already see some good news in this matter, or perhaps there is an initiative to at least review this decision in some cases. We hope that the government will see as soon as possible that the Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments' shameful rail-destructive anti-rural policy must be stopped, not condemned to death, but to develop and establish an appropriate timetable. However, we can also say that one of the most important infrastructures, if not the most important infrastructure, is behind in the development of the back road network. We have had a lot of discussions before the Parliament about the nature of the problem, the extent to which the government is responsible, but we can say that I do not know, and I do not want to put forward, a really good, positive thing about the Balliberal governments before 2010 in terms of the development of the countryside. All criticism is justified, but it has deteriorated in many respects after 2010, and the situation continues to deteriorate. If you look at the side roads, there are now 17,000 kilometers of side roads nationwide, which are in the wrong or the wrong category, and their length is increasing year after year, and the number is increasing. And we can see now that this year, too, the government will provide enough resources to renovate only 400-500 kilometers in the next year, so the problem will not be solved, but increased, so the problems are getting deeper. But in a number of other areas we could criticise government policy; access to the most important public services, maintenance of public works and everything else, in which we can say that, unfortunately, the government stands by the countryside in words, and this is not, unfortunately, glad that it stands out at least in words, in rhetoric, but that action is still not enough. There is a substantial need to provide more resources to the Hungarian villages so that, first, the break-off can be stopped and a meaningful development policy can be implemented. On the part of the LMP, we believe that real development and economic development can be discussed if the regions of the country, small settlements, peripheral border areas, and once again we can give the smallest settlements the right future for their development, and we can give everyone the opportunity to thrive in their homeland. This basically requires a self-criticism on the part of the government, that in this respect it has wasted ten years, and a fundamental change of mind in order to really pursue a pro-rural policy and give the right resources to make the Hungarian villages flourish. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-14-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title of Important Questions. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-07-14-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Important questions. Indeed, important questions were raised here, among the walls of the Parliament in recent months regarding the completion of the MotoGP track in Laboroly. And in the course of the discussion, I received questions, too, and Secretary of State Tamás Schanda asked me why I was lobbying for a failed project, and what is the value of the message that I am lobbying for it. So I'm going to take this opportunity to answer Tamás Schanda's questions. My answer is very simple: the interests of the people of Somogy and the development of the region. I think that would be expected from all the representatives of Somogy. I am sorry, and I am shocked to find that Fidesz Somogy MEPs do not think so. And speaking of which, Mr President, I would also like to note that I have been sent here by the people, I represent the people, I represent the people, I am a representative of the people, I have a duty and a right and duty to control the executive power, an important government. I can do that by asking questions. So when asked by a representative of the people, the minister or the secretary of state, the servant of the people, is a servant of the minister in a literal sense. In replying, I believe that it is not ethical, it is not polite, and it is against the parliamentary ethics to ask back, to accuse, to take account of the representative of the people. So please, Mr. President, if you're going to experience this in the future, please be kind enough to warn me...
u2020-07-14-142	Congressman, you are speaking after the agenda... [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: Yes...]] I'm asking you to take this meeting off the agenda. Thank you.
u2020-07-14-143	All right. I made one request, and given that I didn't have a chance to answer it, I did it now. And then, back to the questions, I have questions, which, of course, we didn't get any substantive answers to. This is the way of publishing an agreement with Donna, the rightholder of MotoGP, where the Hungarian government also undertakes to organise competitions and build careers for the coming years. We didn't get an answer. We also didn't get the answer that we could trust that with government help, they would build or finish the MotoGP track at the Strip by 2023. There was no answer to that either. However, there were arguments against the completion of the course building. What were those arguments again? Let's see. Line management is considered obsolete. Well, I think 12 years ago, Hermann Tilke designed one of the most modern careers in the world. However, I would also like to note that Hungaroring was built 35 years ago and still hasn't become obsolete. There is also the possibility of possible enlargement on the road, as I will say. The argument is as follows: there is insufficient room for adequate infrastructure. 600 hectares of land are available for this project; this finding can be refuted by common sense. Then, with the demolition, it would be significantly more expensive than the new development. I'm asking you, you've done an impact assessment on this, by the way. What's there to break? Anyone who's ever been to Sávoly has seen that there are no buildings. There's the base of the MotoGP track, and there's 4,000 tons of stone on it, but there's no body. And when the Secretary of State says that it's worth looking around on the ground to see what conditions are under control, I've looked around, I'm out regularly, and I can see the area. The question is, was Mr. Secretary of State at all in Sávoly before this decision was made. If you don't, I'd be happy if you'd visit me, I'd invite her to a field trip. And I would like to stress that I am not standing against Hajdúnánás, I am standing next to Sávoly, Somogy. We have the government's intention to build the MotoGP track, we have the 65 billion HUF separately, and according to some calculations, the fraction of this would be 30 billion HUF enough to complete the lane. The money saved here could be spent on health care, especially the development of the Marcal hospital. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is still not too late to think this through to discuss these issues. [[15.10]] I am very confident that the interests of the people of Somogy will be taken into account, and I also hope that the current decision will be changed for the benefit of the people of Somogy. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-14-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of "Actual affairs." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-145	Mr President, Dear Parliament, As a Member of the Parliament of Eger and its region, I asked for the opportunity to speak after the agenda. Through the public of the Hungarian Parliament, I wish to inform you, as well as the inhabitants of Eger and its region, that after long and long decades of waiting and promising our great dream of connecting Eger with the motorway with the M25 road has been achieved. The road will be handed over to traffic next Monday, July 20th. In this way, the Eger-Budapest distance will be shortened, faster and safer. More tourists, visitors and businesses will come to Eger, helping families in the area to thrive. More people will be able to see our historical memories, bathe in our healing waters and taste our excellent wines. Dear Parliament, The new M25 road connecting Eger to the motorway affects 19 km long and five settlements. Expert calculations, it is estimated that the driving time between Eger and the M3 motorway may be reduced by 10-15 minutes. For those who often make the Budapest-Eger distance, this represents a very serious time savings on an annual basis. In addition, the municipalities concerned are exempt from daily traffic noise and environmental harm. With the construction of the highway and its related investments, more than 10,000 trees and shrubs were planted and nearly 880 thousand square meters of grass. The construction works started twice in the summer of 2017 after a thorough planning. Dear Parliament, So the road with which we connected Eger to the highway was built. I thank the Government of Hungary for their support and the contractors for their precise and accurate work. I wish the motorists safe transport. We promised M25, we did it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-14-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Kálló, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "The Second Wave." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-07-14-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You don't have to be a virology expert to know that the coronal virus hasn't ended, and we have to prepare for the second wave. In neighbouring countries, more and more worrying numbers of infected people are coming, so we know that sooner or later, the virus will return to this area and the risk of infection will increase. Hungary was indeed in place during the Crown Virus. People fought hard, followed the rules. Here we have special thanks to the Hungarian citizens, who have complied with the rules of quarantine, and we have special thanks to the municipalities who have led their inhabitants and helped the people who live there. I'm very proud of what happened in the 4th constituency of Fejér County in my constituency. After the counties of Budapest and Pest, the most infected were in Fejér County, but in my constituency we know only one or two infected ones and fortunately not death. And what happened to the budget now, or in the last few months? In order for the local authorities to be so strong, how grateful have you given them? In any way, they've been cut off. I'd like to say three things: tourist tax, business tax, car tax. Not to mention the other costs incurred by the municipalities and not reimbursed to them, such are the extra-infectiousisations, such as when the elderly were provided on a social basis, the institutions were equipped with disinfectants and extra cleaning. The costs of these were also borne by the municipalities. You're not getting these back. I'm usually a man of numbers, so I've got some numbers for you now. I would like to highlight the car tax on the financial loss of my district. They took HUF 25 million from Ercsi, they took HUF 11 million from Kulcs, they took HUF 10 million from Adony, they took HUF 13 million from Pusztaszabolcs, they took HUF 16 million from Nagyveny, they took HUF 8 million from Iváncsa, they took HUF 7 million from Perkata, they took HUF 10 million from Rácalmás and they took HUF 132 million from Dunaújváros only by withdrawing the car tax. There was some straw. You said that you would provide the municipalities with a HUF 2000 billion credit line so that they could somehow compensate for these losses. Well, this straw was also set on fire, because a few days ago, all this was withdrawn. Not to mention the danger that the tax on business would put the budgets of the municipalities in jeopardy, since one of the largest sources of income in my district was the trade tax. I'd say I'd send a message to the ruling party, but I can't do that for two reasons. On the one hand, I don't see any Fidesz congressmen on the bench. I don't see one in a hundred and thirty-three congressmen I can send a message to right now. I'm sorry, except for the Speaker of the House, but I think it's your duty. The other thing I would like to mention, or the other problem, is that I cannot send a message because we have seen in the previous budget that you are not looking for consensus, even in the face of the crisis. Once again, a budget has been adopted without a single opposition amendment proposal being adopted. I would therefore not be sending you a message, but a message to the independent and opposition mayors who have been sabotaged. You've been through a very tough virus. You guys took a good test. I'm asking you to hold on. Over the past few months, we've proven that we can do anything by holding our teeth together. We'll be able to survive the massacres. But I would still like to send a message to the Fidesz mayors and Fidesz municipal representatives who remained mute at the sight and hearing of these feuds who did not speak. Remember, he is an accomplice among sinners who are mute. Shame on you! I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-07-14-148	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 21 September 2020. Thank you for your cooperation, your work. Have a good rest, I'll close the seat.
