u2020-05-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and notary György Lukács will be of assistance to me. We'll start with pre-meeting speeches. From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a speech before the agenda:. On current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to address two issues that are unpleasant to Fidesz, but which are very important to Hungarian people: one is the issue of health care and the other is the question of workers or people who have lost their jobs in the epidemic situation here. We've been saying for a long time that we need a separate Ministry of Health. This would be of the utmost importance during the epidemic. The situation has been worse since then, in so far as we need not only a new ministry, but also a new minister. It's simply unacceptable that Miklós Kásler's activities are exhausted by coming in here for a few questions and then leaving. 'Cause it's mandatory. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What should you do?]] Instead, the foreign minister regularly reports on what is going on in the country in the fight against the epidemic. It is unacceptable that, in an epidemiological situation, the Minister of Health does not report on the defence, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs reports on the defence. But when you're here, Minister, you don't thank me either. Yesterday Ildikó Bangóné Borbély asked a question about the story of a family, where a 32-year-old mother with two children probably died because of the health loss, and the Minister only commented that she entertained Parliament with true stories. I understand why the minister isn't here more often, but that's not the solution. Obviously, it's not the wrong sentence. A number of criticisms were also received about the Minister during the preparatory period. The hospital evacuations have also gone terribly wrong, the discharge of hospital directors has also attracted a number of criticisms, and there are also a number of problems with the reopening. The government must act immediately, it must act urgently, we need a new minister. Just so the Fidesz people understand, Miklós Kásler is an unfit minister. And as soon as it is possible, and the epidemic allows, it does not prevent protection, it is necessary to set up a new Ministry of Health, because such epidemics can be repeated, and then a new independent Minister of Health or Ministry is needed. The other subject I would like to bring here is the support of workers. You have framed and framed this subject to aid or work, but this is a very false frame. Because we don't say only benefits. We say that help must also be given to workers and those who have lost the job. I'm listening to you, listening to you defend government policy, this inhumane policy, and I'm thinking that when a man's house is on fire, it's usually not a paying strategy to let it burn down, and then rebuild it, but try to put out the fire as soon as possible in order to have less to rebuild. You come with low-interest loans, and we say we need someone like you to live with it. But in the case of individuals, this does not make sense, and in such an uncertain situation, small entrepreneurs will not take credit, as they will be anxious when they can repay it. You're talking about creating new jobs. Here last week, the Prime Minister said that in three months, everyone will have a job. But in the meantime, the Prime Minister is talking about the possibility of a second wave of the plague in September, in the fall. Meanwhile, you have banned all major events until 15 August, and you cannot hold events. I wonder how in tourism, hospitality, every person will have a job again. It is therefore necessary to extend the unemployment benefit for at least nine months and to increase it in order to ensure that those who cannot find a job until then receive regular basic income and benefits. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that unemployment benefits are not benefits. A job-seeking allowance is a kind of quasi-insurance, and employees pay for it, which is why they paid a huge amount of contributions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh, oh, oh!]] Because they expected that if something went wrong with them, they would receive substantial help afterwards. So don't write that as aid. But let's talk about the basic income, the dialogue proposal. You guys like to talk about a nation a lot. [[Németh Szilárd István: Sit down!]] Of course, they usually talk about a nation when they can use it as a club. Those who disagree with you can be denied out of the nation. But the nation is primarily a community of fate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And not the Soros community, you're right!]] In such a difficult situation, the question is that we are able to engage in a community of fate with those who do not have access to a job-seeking allowance or who cannot find a job. Therefore, the basic income must also be introduced as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-05-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State Sándor Bodó responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Congressman! It's sad to hear that, at such difficult times, you're still the most important in politics. Think about it: last night in health care, vomit and how many workers did their job, yesterday, today in employment departments, vomit and how many people do their job to save jobs. Think about the situation of businesses, the situation of workers. And you're definitely puffing up political overtones here. Obviously, health care has had very difficult days in almost every country in the world. I definitely feel it's important that I thank you for the sacrifice you've been doing for weeks now. We have managed to slow down the epidemic in Hungary, we can deal with serious economic measures, and obviously the most important thing for us is not political battles, but, in addition to defence, the re-launch of the economy. In this situation, we need to see that the Hungarian economy is in a much better position than before the 2008 crisis, and to save everyone from the idea of acting in a way that you and your fellow parties did in those days. We have concrete plans, concrete measures, and I see that this is becoming increasingly well-known, and at some level it can be seen that employers can adapt to this. The one who loses his job is absolutely clear, the most important thing is to find a job as soon as possible, and it is a serious, determined, deliberate political intention that as much jobs as the virus destroys, we can provide as much. Some thoughts about the Hungarian supply system. So those who lose their jobs in Hungary will receive unemployment benefits for three months. By the time this is over, I'm sure you'll have an offer. There will not be a person in Hungary who, after running out of these three months, would not get a job offer. Obviously, the luckiest thing would be to get this from the competition sector, or to get it from the Hungarian state in the second place. In order to achieve this, the government has made significant transfers to the budget, and this is obviously a cover for the measures. In particular, some 20 percent of GDP had to be moved to ensure that protection was effective. Some specific measures. The capital and interest payment obligations of all individuals and of all companies have been suspended until the end of the year. We've made delays in cataclysms, evictions and seizures, tax executions, too. We continue to maintain it, because it is important to have a range of family protection measures. We will certainly ensure these in the next period as well. This includes, for example, a 20% increase in the wage of women and health professionals. [[9.10]] The economic protection action plan you prefer to avoid, as I have said, is obviously the first and most important part of preserving jobs. To do so, we will provide state aid to workers in two major chapters, on the one hand, in the field of research and development and innovation, as this is a very important sector, and this must be the basis for economic recovery and the start-up of the economy in the next period. Of course, we also think about those who work in the workplace, so we also launched wage support for job protection. The effectiveness of this has been expanded to make it accessible to as many people as possible to as many businesses as possible. Our next step is that we obviously need to re-launch the economy after job creation, and we need to help businesses. The fourth point is that it is quite clear that we also need to help businesses. Credit guarantee and capital programmes are underway. In this situation, more and more people will account for and demand favourable corporate loans. Fifthly, which is also very, very important to protect families, to protect pensioners, to return the 13th month pension that you and your allies have taken away from people. In this situation, I think it is a political adventure to blubber horse-zunges that you have done, to ask who is doing your job in order to ensure that the safety of Hungarian people is as effective as possible, and that jobs remain as large as possible, and that new jobs should be created instead of missing jobs. We contribute to protection through active measures and active work. It seems to me that we cannot count on you in this work; it is only the mockery that we hear from you here in Parliament. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-05-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is becoming increasingly apparent that the majority of governments are using this epidemic entirely to quickly close or sink more cases that are unpleasant to the government. This was the case last week with the banishment of the opposition proposal to declare the climate crisis, but I can't say a better word for what happened, or the sudden rejection of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which we are voting on today. To this day, I couldn't figure out what was wrong with this government. In the last parliamentary term, too, we opposition parliamentary women have repeatedly initiated ratification of the Istanbul Convention, with little success. According to the calculations then, it would have taken some HUF 8 billion to fulfil the obligations arising from ratification, which is really not much if we considered how much better the implementation of the agreement would have put Hungarian families and women in a better position and helped to reduce domestic violence. Now they want to reject it with reference to migration. It's just a shame and a blunder! I ask the majority of governments to consider and do not vote today for the rejection of ratification of the Convention. Dear House, In the rest of my speech, I would like to talk about two proposals for LMPs which would significantly alleviate the growing economic and social crisis. One proposal would create jobs, while the other would keep jobs that the government has virtually set aside. Tens of thousands of people could be created by implementing a complex building energy programme and, on the other hand, tens of thousands of jobs could be preserved by the government's willingness to finally recognise and support the activities of civil society organisations. First, the building energy program. This programme would have many benefits for everyone. Almost immediately, it would create thousands of new jobs. I must also say that the Prime Minister should be less concerned about the jobs promised. It would mean a real reduction in the rent, less families would have to pay for heating in the winter and cooling in the summer, so their account could be up to 50-60 percent lower. This is especially important at a time when people work at home because of the epidemic when they heat all day. Overall, less energy would be needed through insulation and heating modernisation, and such a program also means climate protection, as 16 percent of CO2 emissions are brought into the atmosphere because of the heating and cooling of our homes. Unfortunately, some 3.5 million apartments today do not meet modern technical and thermal requirements. Of these, 2.5 million are family homes for which solar panels could and should be installed. This proposal from the LMP would bring many benefits, create jobs, create a real reduction in the costs, avoid heating the streets in winter, reduce the total energy consumption and take a meaningful step from an environmental point of view. [[István Szilárd Németh: And world peace would come!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The government should pay greater attention not only to job creation but also to job preservation. In 2018, more than 160,000 people worked in the civil sector and their contribution to GDP was 5 percent. First, the government promised that civil society organisations could also receive a salary supplement so as not to have to put civil society workers on the streets. But by the time the order came out, what happened? The civilian sphere has been completely left out of this. Of course, we understand that the government does not like civil society organisations in general, but we should finally see that, on the one hand, there is no democracy without civility and, on the other hand, by taking over state tasks, they solve tasks in a cost-effective way that the government cannot do. Now, for example, during the period of the epidemic, many social tasks have been taken over, such as in the field of elderly care. They deserve the government to provide a salary supplement for civil servants as well. I'd like to get this very, very thickly underlined. I trust the government will accept both of the LMP's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-05-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner responds to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In response to the voice of the Member, she first spoke about the Istanbul Convention. In this House, we have been debating for years the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, the possible outcome. We follow international examples of who, among the Member States of the Union or even the Member States of the Council of Europe, has ratified, who have not, and why not. We can also state, as we have often said, that all these beneficial parts of the convention, since this seemed to be a well-intentioned initiative dealing with the protection of women and young people, we have included it in the Hungarian legal order. In 2013, the Hungarian Btk., one of the strictest criminal codes in Europe, came into force. Unfortunately, not even the LMP, MSZP, DK and other debris sitting here at the time, but even Jobbik did not vote for this kind of tightening up, which takes full action against these types of acts. In fact, we see a contradiction in your opposition, on the one hand, to tighten the criminal code, insisting that civil society organisations sensitize the courts, impose as mild penalties as possible, and then appearing here in the parliament in a hypocritical manner, as did Zita Gurmai yesterday, and saying that in some relationship violence, practically only a suspended sentence was imposed. He had the legal background for the right action. If a prison sentence had been imposed, perhaps the unsub would have wondered if he had been released later, if he wanted to go back to where he was being punished for such an act. At present, there is a family task force working within the Ministry of Justice with the call of some 50 organisations on how to improve the system, provide even more protection, and better coordinate the work of judicial bodies, guardianship and other organisations. It is in front of this House, just yesterday, there was a debate in the Code of Criminal Procedure that regulates contacts already in line with the new amendments, so that we can further rule out that rapists are practically released through a relationship system and that they can commit crimes. So to say that the government is doing nothing, it's not real. The Ministry of Justice also published a correlation table listing all provisions of the Istanbul Convention. It can be seen that all the provisions which do not concern the recognition of social sex or the granting of asylum are fulfilled, and even more stringent, in part, than those which have been imposed there; in practice, we can say that we have legally met this task. [[9.20]] Taking this into account the kind of forced social ideology that seeks to break the foundations of our society by questioning and involving traditional gender roles in education, we will not be partners in this, and it is no coincidence that Parliament will accept a declaration on this matter to put an end to this. But Congresswoman has also mentioned some other issues concerning civil society organisations. In Hungary there are about 60 thousand civil society organisations, completely free of constraints. For example, court proceedings have also been substantially simplified, precisely at the time of our government, which allowed only previous registrations and the transfer of changes in a bureaucratized and fully bound form. With NGOs, the state has contracts to carry out public tasks, and we are still financing them. For example, Madam Member, sport is not included in the civil sector, but there are provisions in the field of sport that ensure the survival of sport for the period of crisis. In the social field, we can also refer to the involvement of church organisations, as they are not part of the USSR, and civil society organisations have the same contact with victims' assistance, which belongs to the Ministry of Justice. The financing of these is virtually assured to this day, and they have not received any withdrawal, unlike the kindergarteners of your ally, the Mayor of Ozd, Mr Janiczak, whose wages have been reduced by 25 percent. So first, they clarify in their own ranks how they relate to the subject of wage supplements and financial care, and then use criticism to the government. And I didn't fully understand the suggestion that he was talking about heating costs in the context of the epidemic. Now it is the beginning of May, and we can practically say that the heating season is over, and hopefully the epidemic is running out, and by the time the winter season comes, and this may be current, it will be over. But the other points are about as realistic as that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai has applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We learned from László Kövér this weekend again, for many years that the Hungarian opposition, i.e. the opposition's parties and at least two and a half million voters, is not part of the Hungarian nation. That's nothing new. The matter became serious when the Prime Minister, who led the Prime Minister's Office, made it clear that the government's official position was even more radical, saying that the Speaker had put it mildly. We don't understand how anyone takes the liberty of saying that, but we understand the government's position. So your starting point is that we, two and a half million opposition voters, are not part of the Hungarian nation, so we are a nation alien. Therefore, the time has come to clarify what this means in practice, so I have a number of questions that I would like to be answered. 1. How do you intend to identify a minimum of 2.5 million NDEs in your country? Do you intend to mark them with a number or a symbol? 2. What state jobs and how much can the identified nation aliens fill? Can they be MPs, council representatives, mayors, doctors, judges or teachers? 3. Will the nation's aliens receive limited health care? Do you want to move back on waiting lists or don't you want to be on them? 4. What percentage of the nation's aliens are going to go to college, college? 5. Since there is an epidemic and you have to protect the people you consider to be Hungarians from national populations, people like me, and if we don't have a valuable test, will we be mass isolated? 6. Will these restrictions also apply to relatives of foreign nations? 7. Are you planning on evacuating us and where? 8. What about our property and property when we get out of here? Is that what you call the Hungarians? 9. They are planning a Hungarian national consultation on the matter, and, on the basis of the decisions of the Hungarian people, people like me lose their identity card, address card, passport [[Németh Szilárd István: This is a medical case!]] Your suffrage and ultimately your citizenship? 10. Should we be prepared that this whole opposition is not a part of the Hungarian nation at the end of the process we will be expelled from the country as your religion demands? And then I would also like to ask you that, if we are not part of the Hungarian nation, we are obviously second-class citizens, because we are listening to this from you, and most of all now as official government positions, then why should we pay taxes? Or is it the same principle as EU funds to give me the money, but shut up? Terrible questions, aren't they? They're awful and familiar, aren't they? The things you claim lead us here. So get your heads in the game. Every day you say about our fellow opposition countrymen and many of our fellow countrymen that they are not Hungarians. Is this really the way you want to go? I would like to say to you, fellow Members, that physical exclusion began with such verbal exclusion in Nazi Germany, in the darkest communist times, in the Balkans and in Rwanda. You are on a path that can lead to physical exclusion. Amazing and outrageous! So if you claim that we are not part of the Hungarian nation, please answer these questions fairly. And if we are part of the Hungarian nation, they will deny both the Speaker and the Prime Minister's Office. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-05-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-05-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman! CHAPTER XX László Ravasz, the iconic Reformed Bishop of the century, wrote in this way when he sought the answer to what the Hungarians were:.The Hungarians are happy about themselves, they are pleased in themselves, they love what is Hungarian. The difficulty that Crafty faced is similar to the problem that we are dealing with now. Crafty also realized that Hungarians cannot be defined on a purely linguistic, racial, historical, demographic or ideological basis. So he came to the conclusion that it was Hungarian who was able to discover Hungarianism as a value. It is amazing to think about how inclusive this definition and behaviour is: Hungarians feel like it alone. For this reason, it makes me wonder why you so often use the Hungarian adjective in a pejorative sense. Reading through a number of left-wing speeches, even publicity for your boss in the last thirty years, you can see that you are typically associated with the concept of Hungarians, such as provincial, muchai and backward. The so-called Hungarian mentality, which, if I understand it correctly, is also a widespread term for you to express some kind of retrograde. They don't seem to enjoy their own Hungarians. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Answer the questions, Mr. Secretary of State.]] They'd rather give it up under catch-up. In fact, it doesn't matter to you whether the current cultural community is Soviet or Western European. The idea of European United States, promoted by your party, is nothing more than to leave this unfortunate nation and its state, to dissolve in the sea of European peoples, to be like Brussels, to be Hungarians like Belgians; to be pronounced not Flemishs or Vallons: Belgians. Of course, I do not mean to say that we must consciously deny all the negatives related to Hungarianism. László Cavasz is also beautiful about this: who would be so foolish that he would love his mother because she is beautiful, charming, classy? We love our mother because she's our mother, and she doesn't change our love unless she's enhanced by the fact that she might be ugly, sick, abandoned, poor. Ady's works, whose lines you wrote in the title of her speech, are reflected in the principles of crafty. He really saw Hungary as poor and sick at the turn of the century, but he didn't want to exceed it, but he just wanted to live it. Ady would never have claimed to be the "Dare to be small" mentality, which is so typical of your party. That is why it is unnecessary for a congresswoman to be pleased in this role, because reality is throwing that role away. Just as you dropped that role when your Prime Minister campaigned against Hungarians across the border in 2004, he shot his nation and dropped it yesterday, when Ferenc Gyurcsány presented his vague ideas about the nation. The former Prime Minister accused the current governing parties of representing only those Hungarians who were directly injured by the peace around Paris. I would like to make it clear to you, perhaps once and for all, that all Hungarian people are directly injured by Trianon. Those who became Hungarians are also under foreign jurisdiction, and those who remained in the mother country. On the one hand, because by dismembering historic Hungary, a political, economic and cultural unity was broken up, within the framework of which everything was given for growth. All Hungarians, live on the border from here or beyond, have fallen as a result of the Trianon peace treaty. Moreover, the entire region of Central and Eastern Europe is also losing because a state formation that, in geopolitical terms, would perhaps have been capable of transforming the 20th century differently by virtue of its power. One century, and we won't become a buffer zone for the great powers. [[9.30]] In other words, the German and Soviet occupation, the Holocaust, the deportations, the attic sweeping and the gulag, and your principle friends and spiritual ancestors would not have been able to overtake power for forty years in Hungary. Finally, let me point out that one of the biggest losers of Trianon's tragedy is Hungarian liberalism, which was able to operate a successful political system in the era of dualism, but in the eyes of posterity it is in no small part one of the greatest responsible for the collapse of the 18th century. The process in which liberalism has now been eroded to this extent in Hungary has started with Trianon, and its failure in your relatively unparalleled speech today is a good example. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The truth hurts, doesn't it? It hurts, doesn't it? Answer my question.]] That doesn't mean you can't heal these wounds, but it's up to you. If you didn't feel so strongly about the dissidents, the Hungarians across the border, perhaps this stigma would be removed from you. Unfortunately, such speeches as yesterday and today do not help this matter. Learn to enjoy their own Hungarians! We'll be on the other side, and we'll be waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2020-05-05-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-13	Thank you very much. Good morning to you all. Dear fellow Members, Yesterday, in the hour of immediate questioning, there was one thing that could not be passed without saying a word. I think that Miklós Kásler must leave his post as Minister, and I have just put it very gently. I could say that in Pestive terms, of course, but I'm taking care of the House's authority to get out, because the criticism you're allowed yesterday, Minister Miklós Kásler, is beneath you. He said, to the death of two people, that this was an entertaining talk from my fellow Member. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying! To the record, you're lying!]] I would like to recall the sentence of my fellow Member when he said that he did not think, Minister, that a 41-year-old father, who was the first victim of health care, died for entertainment, and he just does not think that a 32-year-old mother who had been transported for more than 120 kilometers and left behind two orphans, a four-month-old infant and a seven-year-old girl would be entertaining. At the time, Minister Miklós Kásler repeatedly said that prayer would help. I get it, but, you know, that prayer didn't really save any of the people, they both left the ranks of the living. The young man who was the first victim of their medical program, their conversion program, he would have defeated the coronal virus, but, you know, he couldn't overcome the hospital infection, and now every year the statistics show more people die than in a car accident. Miklós Kásler's statement is actually a confession to the policy of his leadership in the management of health care. He admitted it! That EMMI is the victim of these two people. Fellow Members! I've been a member of the Parliament for 25 years now, and I've been chairman of the committee several times. For the last four or five years, I've received so many letters of complaint, that's all, but I've had so many stories to hear, family tragedies, that I can continue until morning! I will start with the disability regime that was adapted in 2012 and its victims, and I would be able to continue now in connection with the layoffs that the Minister has ordered. I would like to note here that yesterday the Minister confessed that I quote precisely that he is not responsible for anything, in fact the responsibility of the care institution and the care doctor. I believe that this should be a warning to all institutional leaders, all doctors and nurses in health care and, of course, to those working in the social sector. I think that those who were more resistant to the measures that Miklós Kásler had taken were right. Fellow Members! Tell me, what is the legal standard of correspondence? Nothing. The legal standard is the wallet decree, the government decree and the law. The fact that the Minister is writing is simply unacceptable, even in the Hungarian government. As I said, I could quote many stories, such was the story of last Tuesday's committee meeting, where the Fidesz majority voted off our motion, in which we summarized in five points what we would like to do to help the government deal with the health crisis on the one hand: we suggested testing all health and social workers; we suggested that the form of support for workers' livelihoods should be raised to nine months, which is not aid, but a social security benefit allowance; we proposed raising family allowances, children and children for the safety of families; we proposed a 6.5 percent increase in pensions; and we proposed helping small and medium-sized enterprises. But now I'm six. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I suggest that everyone sign the MSZP petition that Kasler should go. Kasler's gotta go. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-05-14	Thank you very much. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, As you quoted Miklós Kásler yesterday and then after the speech, and, as you quoted today, you have just referred to it, to the effect that the quote should not be made directly, and it should be found that what you have built your entire speech on is an untrue, false campaign based on untruths, honourable Member, they are trying to cling to something that has not been said here today and yesterday. Do not think that by twisting someone else's words, honourable Member, you can gain political capital in the long term. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] If there are people in Hungarian health care who have actually experienced what it means to help people on the edge of life and death, to use the most modern means of medical medicine so that families do not lose their parents, their brothers and their children, it is Miklós Kásler, who has been managing the National Institute of Oncology for decades, who, in recognition of this work, is a member of the management board of more international scientific companies than you can list, honourable Member, from England to other countries of Europe, France and many other countries and European institutions. Lajos Korózs may not be able to acknowledge what he has done, but 60 international medical scientific societies have been able to acknowledge his work over the past decades and have appreciated his work. So I think that when you make such frivolous comments, perhaps you should consider first that the sentences that you are doing, or the scientific societies that put him among your members or leaders, have some weight. Honourable Congressman, Fortunately, the number and spread of hospital infections in Hungary is decreasing, not by accident, because, on the one hand, we have launched a special multi-billion HUF programme, in which almost every hospital could receive support to develop various antiseptic points within the hospital area, at the points of entry and within the hospital area; if you go to hospitals and do so after the epidemic, please see this. In addition, so-called infection control bodies have been established at local, regional and national level, which have formulated local, regional and national action plans to reduce the number of hospital infections. As regards the committee meeting you mentioned on Tuesday and your proposals, we answered all the opposition's questions for six hours without a time frame at the committee meeting on Tuesday. You claim in international forums and even in CNN about five to six weeks ago that the Hungarian Parliament does not really meet. I do not know where else there is a parliament where Parliament's work is not carried out on drawing ballots, which is somehow photographed and sent in with their mobile phones, but personally, the representatives of the government and the operational tribe have been asked by the members of the People's Welfare Committee for as long as they wanted, and you have even said how long and extensive a response the government's representatives have given. [[9.40]] As regards the respect of doctors and nurses, honourable Member, you have also been talking about doctors. How did you do that here in Parliament on 15 December 2018 when you voted? When it was decided... [[Lajos Korózs, leaving the room: I do not want to hear... Dr. Pál Völner: You are ashamed! The president's ringing the bell.]] You say you don't want to know when I want to confront you with your own decision. You're doing the same thing, Mr. Korózs. [[The president's ringing again.]] what Szabó Timea used to do, when the answer is given to them, they simply leave the room. [[Sándor Burány's intervention.]] You say that Parliament does not meet, and there is no opportunity for dialogue, and then you will withdraw. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Shame. That's why he went out.]] I'll tell the others if they don't remember. On 15 December 2008, Sándor Burány, Ágnes Vadai, Lajos Oláh, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Arató, Zsolt Molnár, Gyula Molnár, Attila Mesterházy, István Hiller and the speaker of the speech. A few years ago, those who demanded greater respect for doctors and nurses contributed with their vote to reducing the wages of doctors and nurses in Hungary [[János Halász: Shame!]] , together Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Ildiko Lendvai, Csaba Molnár, István Ujhelyi. They were the ones who decided that all patients should pay a visitation fee if they go to the doctor. They were the ones who decided that every patient in a hospital bed who would be lying in a hospital bed as a coroner would have to pay a hospital allowance. And they're talking about what should be done in health care. The Hungarian people have seen this before. First, these measures were swept away by a national referendum, and then they gave their views on the policy of the socialists in three successive elections. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and our policy, and that is how we have won such a large majority here in Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-05-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Brenner Koloman has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, What are we fighting for? This is the title of my comment before the agenda, and I refer to the well-known story attributed to Churchill in a similar way to many similar stories, when during World War II, they wanted to regroup all the costs of war that are important to the people, such as culture and education, and Churchill replied: "Well, then why are we fighting?" The same thought occurred to me when I saw that you were taking away 25 billion from the Hungarian university world under the title of so-called public burden-sharing, or when you were withdrawing from small settlements the revenues that would help people living there every day if the source of help to the municipalities. Well, what are you, my fellow Members, fighting for, if you think that there are blue posters to be filled with the country again about a completely inadequate economic plan that does not give any support to those who have lost their jobs at this time; and there are many, and there will be more. And don't believe the statistics that the KSH is saying right now, because there will be more, unfortunately, of your fault, and instead you will plant the country for billions of dollars. There is 100 billion forints and more in the propaganda museum in Rogan; they are inciting opposition representatives in the public media, also from the taxes of Hungarian citizens. And instead, you're taking me away from the municipalities, from the universities. Well, congratulations. If that's what you're fighting for, it's a value choice. Of course, we know the value of Fidesz, they call your values Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and Christian family man Borkai, yachtsmen. These are your values; this is a real value choice, which is perhaps the best in a crisis period. For Jobbik as a national party, education and the world of universities are a nation-strategies sector, which should be supported in particular, even in crisis situations, as the number of candidates for universities has now fallen significantly, so that only universities would need more help, let alone withdraw money from them in this crisis. In addition, nearly 30 rural faculties are in critical situations as a result of this decline in the number of applications. This is also the fruit of your anti-knowledge and intellectual policy. You can also congratulate yourself on this and your choice of value! It's Mathematics Day. From here, too, we want a lot of strength and perseverance for all graduates who are experiencing the stress that would not have been necessary if you had taken Jobbik's proposal a long time ago to get this graduation result with a ticket recommendation. And I am sure that a good teacher, who has known the student for many years, would have offered a ticket that could have been accepted with good heart by 84 thousand young people who are now graduating, and that already tens of thousands of contact situations could have been spared. But what else has happened in this critical period since we switched to digital education? There are various surveys and estimates that one fifth or one third of Hungarian students are virtually not receiving digital education, because they lack basic conditions, the Internet, sometimes even electricity, so that child poverty is no longer mentioned. Instead, what are you doing in the spirit of value choice? They're bringing in the NAT. Well, congratulations, and I'm not saying this because you have any problems with Jobbik with Albert Wass, because in your social environment, you obviously have to teach your texts, but now it's not necessary to do that, but to draw conclusions from the very valuable experiences that are gathering now, and finally to start doing what you haven't done in ten years: the XXI. Adapting the situation of Hungarian education to the challenges of the century. For Jobbik as the National People's Party, education is a matter of war, which is why we work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and Dialogue. Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]]
u2020-05-05-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Szijjártó Minister Péter will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, If we'd listened to you in the last ten years, we wouldn't have a chance today to enter into a new global competition that has arisen as a result of the pandemic. What you've been pushing for for the last ten years, we've all done exactly the opposite, and the result is clear. You have to look at what Hungary looked like in 2010, you might like it better; your allies formed the situation of what Hungary looked like in 2010. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Mr President, I would like to point out that I have followed Mr President's speech with calm calmness, and I have not once interjected; for the record alone, I would like to say that the Member is unfortunately not fit to do so, but that will be decided by his party whether it is a criterion of suitability or not. (Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. ) By the end of 2019, however, we reached the point where Hungary showed the fastest pace of economic growth in the European Union. Once again, Hungary was part of the problem in the European Union in 2010; in Hungary, unemployment was 12.5 percent; in Hungary, 1.8 million taxpayers wanted to operate the country, 1.8 million taxpayers reported the so-called public burden. Compared to this, by the end of 2019 and by 2020, we are at the top of the European Union with a 5 per cent economic growth. 4.5 million people have jobs. Hungary, despite the fact that only 92th in terms of population in the world can produce the 34th largest export performance compared to this. We are one of 35 countries in the world that exports more than EUR 100 billion a year. Congressman! Fellow Members! In your opinion, if the Hungarian education system were really bad, if the standards in Hungarian primary and secondary schools and universities were as bad as what you say, would the Hungarian people be able to produce the performance they are now producing? If you think school education in Hungary would be so bad, if you were to train bad engineers in Hungary, if you were to train bad economists in Hungary, if you were to train bad workers in secondary education institutions in Hungary, would you think that the world's largest, strongest and most advanced companies would come to Hungary? [[9.50]] Do you think that if the training of Hungarian people were as high as you would have shown, we would have been able to break the investment record continuously over the past five years? Do you think that the most powerful companies in the world are going to places where there are unskilled workers, where there are not enough engineers and where the country is not prepared enough? Congressman, you are fighting with reality. Of course, there are some issues in which we sometimes agree, although in a somewhat unusual way we had to argue with you last time that we were sending the necessary medical protection tools to Hungarians across the border, but there are still certain questions... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] Yes, with you, that's right, with you, look back at the records as you criticized our decision. But there are still questions that we sometimes agree on. But with all due respect, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that you are fighting with reality. You also criticized the graduation that began yesterday. Honourable Member, the students also made their own intentions clear because they did not have to graduate. Yet 98-99 percent of the students showed up for graduation and passed their graduation exams, and today will pass, and as we hope yesterday, as many of them have succeeded, we trust, this will be the case today. Mr Secretary of State made it clear here in Parliament yesterday that we have taken all the measures that exist in order to ensure that students and their teachers are as safe as possible these days. There was no news of a major complaint, of a major disruption, despite the fact that graduation really has to be held under extraordinary circumstances. Therefore, instead of complaining and criticizing, I think it is time and time that we thank all the teachers, all the school workers whose work allows Hungarian students to graduate yesterday, today and in the coming days. They deserve their thanks, and they deserve their appreciation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Honourable Congressman, Finally, I would just like to say that you have also criticised the economic protection action plan, but the number of companies seeking the opportunities that you have announced here proves exactly the opposite of what you have said here. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-05-20	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, From the KDNP Group, Mr András Aradszki applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, The primary objective of our common fight against a coronal virus epidemic is to save human life. To this end, the health system has also been prepared in case the epidemic becomes a mass. I'm sure we will limit the spread of the virus by joining forces and essential professional work and knowledge. Unfortunately, we also need to see that the Hungarian economy's players, including in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, have faced a difficult economic downturn. Work is, in the Christian sense, a fundamental condition for preserving human dignity, whatever creative work it is. Based on this approach, the Christian Democratic government of Hungary and its parliamentary majority have made micro- and medium-sized enterprises a central element of its policy over the past ten years. During the decade behind us, these businesses have been strengthened with hard work, ingenuity, flexibility and proper knowledge. More than half of the added value was produced and more than two thirds of Hungarian workers were employed, and 155 thousand people were helped to work on the labour market compared to 2009. The improvement in their productivity was significantly higher than in large companies and even ahead of the average growth rate of the V4 and EU Member States in all size categories. As a consequence of the coronal virus epidemic, these values have been put at direct risk. In this situation, the government is not going to remain idle, but has announced an economic protection action plan focusing on keeping jobs, providing financial resources, liquidity and helping investment in development. As part of this, without the need for completeness, the following measures will be taken: lending to the SME sector is available through a very low interest rate loan facility with a total budget of HUF 1500 billion. There is also the possibility of general wage support, which up to now has been applied for by more than half a thousand businesses and about 5,000 workers. There was an important role for professional organisations, Chambers, because, as requested, general wage support has been opened up by the government to a wider range, and the conditions have been substantially facilitated so that more people can make use of it. For the sake of survival and a safer future, the ITM launched a social debate on an efficiency-enhancing, job retention programme for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with a first call for funding of HUF 50 billion. Many other tax cuts help to keep jobs and re-launch the economy and establish the future. I am thinking of the plan to allow the profits to be invested in order to stimulate investment to be fully exempt from corporate tax. It is a success, and it commends the good professional preparation that the European Commission stresses Hungarian state aid of some HUF 870 billion, Hungarian state aid and non-EU funding, so it has approved such a support programme, in line with EU rules, which can help up to 5,000 companies. Dear House, I was merely pointing out some of the credible news that has come to light in recent days on the promotion of SMEs, entrepreneurs and workers and the preservation of jobs. So anyone who claims that the government is not doing anything about it does not know or consciously distort reality. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-05-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to Mr Szijjártó's speech before the agenda will be given by Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of Mr Brenner's speech, I have already mentioned to you that the points in the Economic Protection Action Plan that support investments by companies that create jobs in Hungary and protect jobs in Hungary have proved to be particularly popular and popular among companies. I would like to inform you that, following EU rules, we have the opportunity to support from budgetary resources companies who undertake to invest in protecting jobs and creating new ones up to EUR 800 000, without any more detailed EU studies. The investment aid amount may reach half of the amount invested. I respectfully inform you that 167 companies have indicated their wish to make use of this investment support until this morning. These companies announced a total new investment of HUF 84.4 billion. So I would just like to point out that while we are defying the global epidemic, while the economic news from the world is only negative, they are building only a negative perception, 167 companies operating in Hungary have announced an investment of HUF 84.4 billion. According to the legislation, the budget support for this is HUF 40.5 billion in total, and this 167 companies have committed to protecting 33 960 jobs in total. [[10.00]] I am even more pleased that 136 of these 167 companies are Hungarians. So, so much for the accusation that the measures of the Economic Protection Action Plan would only benefit multinational companies. 136 Hungarian companies are committed to protecting 16 758 jobs. In addition to them, ten German, six American and many other national companies came forward for this support. 28 of the companies are active in the construction industry, 24 in the metal industry and 21 in the automotive industry. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that two thirds of the investments made in Hungary in the first quarter of this year are linked to the automotive industry. So when we talk about the vulnerability of alleged unilaterality in the case of the Hungarian economy, in Hungarian, that many automotive companies, it is obvious that this is not the case, at least not in the case of Hungary, because we have already started the transition to the new automotive era, when we focus not on the production, testing and development of conventional diesel-driven cars, but on the new era, where electromobility and self-driving cars are the future for the automotive industry. And currently the largest electric battery factories in the world are being built in Hungary. Instead of indicating some kind of delay, investors accelerated the implementation of their investments, helping the Hungarian economy to resume. However, I would also like to point out that, since the Hungarian economy is one of the ten most open economies in the world, and since Hungarian exports reach 86,5 percent of GDP, it is particularly important to help our companies active in the external markets, because the overall performance of the Hungarian economy is seriously defined by the external dimension. In Hungarian, export performance and investment from abroad determine the effectiveness of the Hungarian economy. This is why we have launched programmes to open up HUF 450 billion of credit facilities to Hungarian companies operating in export value chains, of which small and medium-sized companies will receive working capital loans of 0.1 per cent within the year. In addition, we are bridging the difficulties that result from the delay in payment deadlines due to the decline in world markets or international markets. So I can assure the Member and my fellow Members that the economic protection action plan will help Hungarian companies to preserve, protect jobs and create new ones, even in the current circumstances. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Mr János Halász applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Soon, eight weeks ago, the government declared an emergency because of the coronal virus outbreak. We remember that the first disease was registered on 4 March, when two Iranian students studying in Budapest were exposed to the virus. A week later, the government announced the emergency very quickly and carefully. This was an important measure taken at the same time. It has contributed to a much slower and more manageable increase in the number of infected people, not in Europe and the United States. Today we can say that the Hungarian measures have been effective, that we have managed to contain and maintain the virus. Our hospitals, doctors, nurses are prepared, the protection equipment is available. The first battle against the plague was won, and the defense took a new stage yesterday. Thank you, everyone, who is involved in the man-seeking work of defense. Dear House, In recent weeks, the government has taken a number of additional measures to protect the health of Hungarian people, as well as the protection of Hungarian families, the economy and jobs. The government has established the basis for the control of the epidemic, as well as the basis for economic protection and the re-launch of the economy. We have set up a job-security wage support programme, and we need to create at least as many new jobs as will be lost as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. But everyone doesn't like it. It is amazing that the opposition objects to all measures and does not want to be part of the solution. This proves once again that they want to fight not the virus, but the government. But we have to work together now, because the stronger the collaboration, the better the results will be. We are pleased to see that many municipalities are working with all their might to help the fight against the virus on the ground, in line with the government's decisions. Thank you for your local defenses. This responsible attitude is also important, since the municipalities are institutional supporters, many older institutions are run by local governments, where the residents need to be protected in particular. We have many good examples in this regard. For example, in Debrecen, the mayor of the city, László Papp, took strict measures to protect elderly homes in the city even before the emergency was announced. The municipality has acted with responsibility as a maintainer of nursing homes. The mayor of the city didn't expect a solution from anyone else. He did his job. The mayors of many other settlements did the same. It is therefore particularly strange why the Municipality and its leader, Gergely Christmas, did not rise to the task. Of course, he's made mistakes before. In the middle of the epidemic, it thinned the BKV tunnels, creating masses that help spread the virus. And he didn't want to make parking free. That was taken nationwide by the government. Similarly, he made a mistake in the case of elderly homes, since the Pesti Road Home, which is operated by the Municipality of Budapest, became the country's biggest focal point. Until now, nearly 40 caregivers have died and more than 300 have been infected. Nationally, this institution accounts for more than 10 percent of the patients who died. Gergely Christmas has never visited the institution on a single occasion, and she blames everyone else but herself for what happened there. However, the maintenance of an elderly home has legal responsibilities in an emergency and beyond: to ensure personal medical presence and cleanliness, appropriate hygiene conditions. On the other hand, it appears from the studies so far that for at least one week, a doctor was not present with the caregivers. Meanwhile, it is known that there have already been diseases in this nursing home in mid-March. And we read that the Budapest government office has already carried out five random checks at the nursing home, which confirmed that there is still no continuous medical care. There was no doctor at the facility. They left the elderly entrusted to them without care during the plague. Despite all this, Gergely Christmas, the last time she told the People's Welfare Committee that there was an ongoing medical presence, that is, Christmas was once again not telling the truth, and instead of answering the answers, she was once again blaming the responsibility. The lack of continuous medical care is of particular concern in the institution that has become a focal point, where, unfortunately, there are a large number of people currently infected. Dear House, Now is not the time to make an inquiry, but once the outbreak is over, we need to investigate this case fully. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Move.]]
u2020-05-05-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári responds to his speech before the agenda, and before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to make their inflow possible so that the Secretary of State's reply can be made clear to everyone. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member also said that it is very important for countries to be prepared and to face the coronal virus epidemic in an organised manner. One important measure of this is the availability of ventilators for those in the most critical medical condition. Here Hungary has done everything in the past few weeks to ensure that there are as many respirators as possible in Hungary, and if we look at how many respirators according to international reports are available to hundreds of thousands of inhabitants, we can see that we have managed to prevent a lot of countries with better financial standing than us, as we are slowly reaching the level of more than 30 respirators in Hungary. This means that we are at the same level with Israel and Germany on this issue, and we are preventing Austria, Estonia, Slovakia, and we are preventing Norway, Switzerland, Britain, Italy, France, Romania, Sweden or Belgium, since in these countries there are less ventilators per hundred thousand inhabitants than in Hungary. [[10.10]] But it is also an important statement that shows the effectiveness of the protection so far, the number of people who have died in a coronal virus per million inhabitants. Hungary is also part of the top third of the EU, but it is certain in the first half, as we have about 35 people who have died in a million people. There is more than that in Norway, Romania, Finland, Estonia, Turkey, Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Denmark, Portugal, Canada, Luxembourg, Switzerland, the USA, if I look at the US, we can talk about an almost four to five-fold multiplier, Ireland, Sweden, the Netherlands, France, England, Italy, Spain, and Belgium, if I project the number of dead to one million inhabitants than in Hungary. Thanks to these countries, thanks to the law enforcement agencies, everyone who has transformed their own lives and has met fewer people has managed to flatten the epidemic curve so that Hungary has been more effective in defending itself compared to these countries, as the number of dead people per million people in Hungary is a few developed countries in proportion to their population. In fact, even DK's politician, with whom Szabó Timea interviewed, Ferenc Falus said that, in fact, the number of Hungarian dead is lower than that of many neighbouring countries; even he acknowledged this. Congressman told me about the nursing home on Pesti Road. The Hungarian budget provides HUF 6 billion for the regular and safe operation of the elderly homes in Budapest. Nevertheless, 17 100 masks and 8400 pairs of rubber gloves had to be taken out of the central storage facility by the state to ensure the health of elderly people. It can be said that nearly half of the deceased come from this institution, when I look at all the institutional deceased, I look at all the people who died in nursing homes, half of them come from the only one nursing home, and 74 percent, so three out of four dead people were hospitalized or died from the elderly homes of the Capital City Council, led by Gergely Christmas. So it can be said that while there are 55,000 elderly home seats and 3800 of which have a capital reserve, 7 percent are elderly home seats, 74 percent of those who have died in nursing homes are in the capital. Seven percent and 74 percent of this show that although the government is often accused by politicians or opposition politicians in the capital, the concern about Pest Road is not real. It's not politics, it's mathematics if 7 percent of the capacity shows up to 74 percent of the dead. The studies showed that there was no full-time doctor present at the institution from 12 March. On the 20th of March, the doctor's relationship was terminated. On the 31st, there were patients with fever. On 6 April, the head of the nursing home informed in writing that there was no doctor and asked for help. As a result, on 9 April, 126 patients were already ill, since there was no doctor in the institution at the time of the outbreak. On 10 April, the chief of staff ordered the maintenance officer to provide appropriate medical attention. The army had to sterilize it later. On 26 April, it also turned out that there had been hatred in the institution before. This shows that inadequate institution maintenance can have very serious consequences during the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-28	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. Now I'm going to ask the staff of the Office to check the horseshoe's voting machines. [[It's happening. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now 10:17, and we will continue our work on the agenda. Please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check to verify the operational capacity of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 168; away: 31.]] Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members: does everyone's machine work? [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Sándor Bodó's Secretary of State doesn't work. I think it's still been reset. For technical staff, I ask you, Sándor Bodó... It's okay. It has to work now. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to press again the button on their voting machines for the purpose of checking their presence now. [[Attendance check. Present: 166; away: 33.]] Mr. Secretary Bodo, all right? [[Sándor Bodo nodds.]] Thank you very much. Is everyone okay? [[For signal:]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows from the publication of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, T/10092. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10092. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 164 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. [[10.20]] Next up is the 1996 21st edition on territorial development and spatial planning. T/9928. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9928/5, and T/9928/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9928/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 14 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9928/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 137 votes in favour, 17 against and 17 abstentions. The National Development 2030 National Development and Territorial Development Concept is coming in line with the 1/2014. H/9929 amending Decision H/9929. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/9929. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 136 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 26 abstentions. We now have the H/9930 on the territorial detachment of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/9930/6. H/9930/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts H/9930/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 8 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/9930/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 8 against and 27 abstentions. The 2001 CVIII on certain issues relating to electronic commerce services and information society services follows. T/9931. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9931/5. T/9931/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9931/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9931/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. Next up is the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. T/9919. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9919/5. T/9919/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9919/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9919/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, It will now come to the next stage, P/10393. on the importance of the protection of children and women and the refusal to accede to the Istanbul Convention. Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. [[Several members of the opposition stand up and hold a table with a quote in front of them. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:, who doesn't meet the female principle in a moral and mental sense, Anett Bősz:,Vetköz, Ági!, Dr. Zita Gurmai:, Who takes care of the children?, Ágnes Kunhalmi:, What do you say, my mother??, Szabó Timea:, We would like our daughters to keep the highest quality of self-realization if they could give birth to us grandchildren, Dr. Szél Bernadett:, I don't care about women's affairs!, Dr. Ágnes Vadai:]] I pay tribute to our fellow Members who use an unannounced illustration to the House that our telecommunications system will record this, and on this basis there will be a very certain procedure, and I warn you that this is a serious violation of the parliamentary law and the relevant provisions of the house rules. I specifically ask Mr. Bence of Tordai, who is the notary of the Parliament, to try to act like a notary. [[Noise, interruptions on both sides. Bence of Turdai returns to his seat.]] Thank you. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of the adoption of the political declaration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/10393. The text of Policy Declaration No 1 has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the political statement by 115 votes in favour, 35 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of Parliament. A decision to amend a decision. S/10414 put forward by the Vice-President All of you could get to know the proposal on the website. I now call on Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the Vice-President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-29	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: The Parliament shall elect Mr.Péter Ágh, Fidesz, instead of György Hubay, Vice-President of the committee; György Hubay, Fidesz, instead of Mónika Bartos, as a member of the committee. [[10.30]] 2. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Mónika Bartos, Fidesz, instead of Péter Ágh, Fidesz, member of the committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 5 May 2020
u2020-05-05-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/10414. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with three abstentions. Dear House, We've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm now ordering a two-minute technical break. I request that the room be left in accordance with the information provided by the Director-General, so as to ensure the protection of the health of all our fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. I call on the Members involved in the debate to stay in the Chamber only if possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, who have spoken in the debate and who are applying for two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, both myself and the sitting presidents following me will indicate to each speaker the names of the two speakers who followed him when giving the floor. Dear Parliament, Next, the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company will be XLII in 1994. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/10217. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said here several times today in the debates preceding this item that Hungary is an export-oriented country whose overall economic performance is fundamentally determined by the successes achieved in the external dimensions, so the stronger and more successful we can be on the export markets, the better the performance of the Hungarian economy. With regard to the Hungarian economy, exports reach 86.5 percent of GDP. This puts us in a leading position in the European Union as well. Countries where this rate is even higher, the size of the economy is smaller than that of Hungary. Hungary is a member of the global elite club which operates in 35 countries, each with export performance of more than EUR 100 billion each year. We stand 34th place, last year Hungarian companies achieved 105 billion euros in exports. This performance has been achieved despite the fact that Hungary's population is only the 92nd largest in the world, so we rank ahead with 58 places on the basis of export performance than if it were a population-proportional list. Therefore, thanks, appreciation and respect are due to all companies engaged in production and service activities in Hungary, and, of course, appreciation, thanks and respect are due to all Hungarian people, engineers, workers and teachers who contributed to this performance. The Hungarian economy is one of the ten most open economies in the world, and therefore the international economic processes have a fundamental influence on the environment in which the Hungarian economy operates. However, the good news is that every year in the last five years, every year, we have broken the historical export record in the national economy, and this could not have been possible without the sacrifices, industrious and expert work of the Hungarian people. These figures show, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian economy is competitive, globally and globally competitive. At the same time, we can see that the pandemic is not only a health issue but also an economic issue, from almost all aspects of the world economy, we can say that nothing will be the same after the pandemic, a whole new competition will be launched, with new rules, new players, new careers, the whistle of new toy leaders, and we must now enter this new competition. And when we enter this new competition, we can have no other purpose than to continue to have Hungary's most attractive investment environment in Central Europe and to have the fastest and most efficient export financing system. In English: our goal must be to make the Hungarian economy even stronger after the pandemic and to be in a better position than before the pandemic. This requires strengthening the external dimensions of the economy, helping companies producing export markets, strengthening their presence on the external markets and helping them to develop new opportunities on the external market. [[10.40]] Fortunately, when we enter this new competition, we can do that with good foundations. In the last ten years, the performance of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy gives us the right to good hopes, given that Hungary has set records in terms of employment, the number of people at work, exports and investments in the past ten years, and we have come to the conclusion that since the change of regime, as many people have never worked in Hungary at the same time as before the outbreak of the pandemic. In comparison, in 2010, the number of people working in Hungary was still under 700,000, of which 1.8 million paid taxes, while 4.5 million worked at the end of 2019, and everyone contributed to the common burden and the operation of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, Accordingly, Eximbank has introduced several new credit, guarantee and insurance products in order to enable Hungarian companies to start in the most advantageous position on international markets during the post-pest period. Firstly, with a budget of HUF 450 billion, we will launch a preferential loan facility for Hungarian companies participating in export value chains. These loans may be applied for with a six-year maturity, investment and working capital, with interest rates ranging between 0,1 and 1.7 per cent respectively. Here again, I would like to underline that, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, the interest on working capital loans within one year is 0.1 per cent. 75 companies have already applied for this loan scheme in a few days, and this option is, of course, available to all Hungarian companies and businesses. Just as all Hungarian companies have also had opportunities for insurance and guarantee schemes, in which we put the guarantee behind loans from small and medium-sized and larger companies in commercial banks, so that businesses do not have to commit new funds, so that they do not damage their liquidity or, in the case of sales to the external market, we undertake to provide bridging assistance for 365 days in case of late payments or delayed payments. Ladies and gentlemen, In this context, there is now a bill here with which we clearly aim to ensure that the Hungarian export financing system is the fastest and most effective in Central Europe in the long term. Last year, we adopted the national export strategy, and it is related to this national export strategy and its practical breakdown and implementation, in part, is the bill that is now on the Parliament's table. With this bill, we will further reduce the administrative burden on Hungarian businesses. In line with international practice, Eximbank can provide both guarantees and guarantees if this bill is adopted by Parliament. We can do this with a state guarantee, so that the administrative costs and burdens on businesses will be reduced, in the case of the guarantee given, it is sufficient for the guarantor to conclude the guarantee contracts which, in the event of the performance of the Eximbank as guarantor, will be transferred to Eximbank under the law. Another important objective of this bill is to speed up access to finance for exporters, companies producing for foreign markets. This is particularly important now, when companies face liquidity challenges in the face of the pandemic, and it is true now that the Hungarian saying that those who give quickly give will give twice, so we will also increase significantly the speed of the conclusion of credit agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the bill before you, Eximbank's loans will also be increased by the credit limits of commercial banks that are specifically available to businesses, thus allowing new companies to access credit products. In the case of commercial banks, due to the regulation on the so-called high risk taking, many commercial banks have now reached the limit that they can lend, so that they have no opportunity to grant new loans, and as intermediaries they can not even place Eximbank's credit products, so in this bill we are now presenting to you that we increase these limits, these amounts, in order to enable eximbank credit products to be offered as widely as possible by commercial banks, and as a result, as many Hungarian companies as possible can take on these loans. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the bill before you, Eximbank's ability to invest in capital funds will also be significantly increased. This bill would allow Eximbank to register shares in connection with the establishment or accession of real estate funds in addition to internal and foreign venture and private equity funds. Ladies and gentlemen, Eximbank can finance domestic real estate development companies by investing in real estate funds by buying industrial, tourism, office and other real estate in areas outside our borders, and can participate in their development and operation, in conjunction with and in line with the objectives set out in the investment policy. Companies that already have a successful real estate portfolio in Hungary and operate diversified real estate portfolios can therefore, underlining the international real estate market, allowing them to exploit the market knowledge and experience gained in Hungary and to export innovative Hungarian construction products and services, since these Hungarian building materials and technologies can be incorporated or used in the foreign real estates to be developed and operated. Ladies and gentlemen, Real estate funds are subject to strict regulations in all countries, but adequate legal guarantees are, of course, available for return on investment. A real estate fund, due to its size, is able to acquire and then operate a well-structured real estate portfolio of many elements, and therefore, because of diversification, under appropriate expert supervision, investments of this type are considered to be relatively low risk investments. Ladies and gentlemen, The general objective of the bill before you is therefore to strengthen the competitiveness of Hungarian companies in international markets, to help Hungarian companies succeed there, and this cannot be achieved otherwise than by providing these Hungarian companies with new sources of funding. If we look around the world, states and governments are doing exactly the same thing, opening up new sources of funding for their companies active in the external markets, we cannot miss out on this race. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, there is also a technical proposal in this bill, because the situation is that the new version of the Act on Government Administration came into force from 1 January 2020 and that is why it is necessary to amend the Foreign Service Act in a technical way. [[10.50]] The Act on Government Administration provides three working days of extra leave per year from the beginning of this year for every official over the age of 50, but, in the current legal context, we cannot apply this new rule in the case of officials performing external service. In order to ensure a coherent regulation, it is necessary to amend this rule in order to apply the same to officials serving abroad as those working at home in this respect. We also clarify the relevant rules for national experts working with the European Union or other international organisations. Finally, the new version of the Social Insurance and Pensions Act, where a certain adoption fee was introduced, has also entered into force from the beginning of this year, and this legal institution must now be reflected in the Foreign Service Act. Thus, we have also used the Act amending the functioning of Eximbank for these technical amendments and their distribution to Parliament, to which I would like to ask for the support of my fellow Members, while also thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-05-32	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Dear House, XLII 1994 on the Hungarian Export-Import Bank Company and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company. Act LXXIII of 2016 on Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service The bill on the amendment of the law consists of two important parts, on which I would like to make a brief comment in my speech as a speaker. The Hungarian Export-Import Bank Private Limited Company, Eximbank, and the Hungarian Export Credit Insurance Company, Mehib, aim to provide efficient financing and insurance arrangements for Hungarian exporters. The mission of Eximbank and Mehib is to support domestic exporting companies as economic policy incentives, helping to preserve jobs, increase employment and increase Hungarian export capacities. State-owned Eximbank and Mehib, controlled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, perform export credit agency tasks in Hungary. Eximbank and Mehib are also responsible for facilitating the expansion of investment and investment for export purposes. In this way, companies can be interested as partners in increasing existing production capacities, expanding their product ranges and targeting additional export markets. Eximbank's achievements so far reflect, inter alia, the establishment of an international bond issuance programme. As a result of the successful issuance of bonds, in addition to the public background required for strategic objectives, market resources fully ensure the stable and favourable funding structure necessary for the financing activity. Exim is not a competitor of domestic commercial banks, but seeks strategic cooperation with financial institutions, with which preferential interest rate loans are granted to exporting companies in cooperation and in a refinancing facility. In particular, Exim finances and provides risks that commercial banks are unable to take on. The Hungarian government's external economic strategy prioritises the promotion of domestic export activity and the search for new export markets. The aim is to enable companies operating in Hungary to exploit their export potential as fully as possible by encouraging the export of Hungarian goods and services, thereby increasing their competitiveness on the external market. Dear House, The first part of the bill is the amendment of the Exim Act. The purpose of the amendment, as Minister said, is that Eximbank may register shares and shares in connection with the establishment of or accession to a real estate fund in addition to an internal and foreign venture and private equity fund. Eximbank can finance domestic real estate development companies by investing in real estate funds in the development and operation of the capital of these funds, whether outside our borders, in line with the objectives set out in our investment policy. Companies that have already built and operated a successful real estate portfolio in Hungary can thus enter international markets, allowing them to benefit from the market knowledge and experience gained, as well as the export of innovative domestic construction and other products and services. Real estate funds and their managers are subject to strict regulations in all countries in order to protect investor interests, so legal guarantees are available for return on investment. A real estate fund can be considered as a relatively low risk investment under appropriate expert supervision. By amending the Exim Act, it will be possible for Eximbank, in accordance with international practice, to provide both guarantees and guarantees, provided that the conditions laid down in a separate legal act are met, with a public guarantee which may lead to a reduction of administrative burdens for undertakings. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act requires changes of a technical nature, as well as amendments to the Act on the Right to Social Insurance and the Protection of These Benefits, as well as to the Act on Government Administration, which took place in January 2020. Under these circumstances, the amendment of the Government Administration Act provides for three working days a year plus additional leave for all officials aged 50 and at the same time for Kit. and due to the specific relationship of the Foreign Service Act, for officials over the age of 50 who are serving their foreign service, this provision is currently not applicable. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that officials over the age of 50 who spend their permanent external service at foreign representations can benefit from this supplementary leave. The law regulates some of the labour law provisions of the preparation staff and also introduces new rules on employers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen, The law before us contains forward-looking provisions, since it is one of the objectives of the national export strategy that Hungary should have the fastest and most tailor-made export financing system in Central Europe by 2030. By amending the Exim Act, it is possible to reduce the administrative burden for both companies and Eximbank, which will speed up the access of exporters to finance. In addition, by adopting the bill, it will also be possible to use additional leave for officials over the age of 50 who spend their permanent external service at foreign representations. In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention. (Applause from the pro-government ranks.
u2020-05-05-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-35	Mr President, Dear House, I'm gonna take advantage of the minutes while Minister is still around, and maybe he's gonna get himself a reaction. Once again, in the context of the future and emerging debate around Eximbank, I am trying to find the common points, perhaps the ones we agree on, and from which we can start at a later stage, even if there is a thousand debates between us in this area. Mr. Minister mentioned that he listed Hungarian as one of the ten most open economies in the world, and that is what statistics do. It's a little polite, that's an elegant way of putting it. I consider Hungarian to be one of the ten most exposed economies, which, unfortunately, although it often produces impressive results in terms of macro numbers, but if we look behind them and go down to the micro level a little, then we see the amazing vulnerability and the very bad mood that characterizes certain segments of the Hungarian economy. And in an epidemic period, I would perhaps refrain from overestimating our economy in the sense that thousands of people are losing their livelihoods in these moments, or that their lost wages will not be replaced in any way, even if it has been a month and a half since the period of the disease control. In my opinion, the Government of Hungary has started a model on 1 May, which, according to some market estimates, will be able to make up for 10-20 percent of the wages lost. I hope that this model will be more successful, but Jobbik's Hungarian employment protection fund is very, very far from 80 percent of its construction, what Hungary's Government has put on the table. There will be much debate about this; this is not what lies before us on the table. However, as Minister has made a number of allegations concerning the Hungarian economy, I am obliged to respond to them within the framework of the general debate with due respect, for example in terms of our export performance. It's very good to see growth here in the last ten years. Let us not be opponents, what is good for the Hungarian economy can also be good for Hungarian citizens, because export performance alone does not say much to me. [[11.00]] I am interested in the extent to which Hungarian micro-, small, medium- or even larger enterprises can split up the export mix. I understand that the multinationals operating in Hungary have received a very, very favourable climate from the Government of Hungary since 2010. I am one of those who systematically criticized the pre-2010 period, that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments overspoken the multisectoral sector and gave them unjustified advantages, in a self-rewarding manner, but my position was added only to the fact that since 2010 all governments of Hungary have been even more generous than the multi-semmens since then. Now, when we talk about epidemiological control, it simply leaves the multisector out of burden-sharing, it displays a 30-40 billion-dollar item, which is paid in part by Hungarian companies, and on the other hand, the multi-semmens make untaxed profits from Hungary in a thousand-billion-dollar scale. So if we're talking about a full picture, it's part of the whole picture. In itself, the increase in export performance is beneficial, but if this is achieved by multinationals operating in Hungary and benefiting from the resources of Hungarian taxpayers, and we want to add additional subsidies to this, then this is a debate with a completely different optics than if it were about successful Hungarian multinationals connecting Central Europe, then the entire European market, and how much tax payments and blessings they provide to Hungarians. Typically, Hungary's almost colonial exposure in many areas is due to the fact that the biggest benefit of the multi-company presence is perhaps the predictable wage level that is guaranteed even in relation to the humiliatingly low wages in Hungary, but even what is paid as a multi-group wage is considered insufficient, even in a regional comparison. As a result, the standard of living is by far the lowest in Hungary for the Visegrád countries, and if we convert our wages into euros, we get a very disappointing result, which is actually the end of the 28th. There are two or three countries that can compete with this very bad result. We can see that this is the full picture. When it comes to broadening the possibilities of Eximbank and conditioning the banking system to support this performance further, let's look at what I am pleased about. I am happy to make the loan with a discount rate of 0.1 per cent within a year, and even to have the government expand it. But I would be very happy if this really brought blessings to the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise segment. If it brings benefits to multi-companies with a well diversified portfolio or to owners of real estate funds who have been suspected to have been rich in dubious circumstances over the last ten years, then I cannot express my joy in this respect. Once again, this is my problem, that when a sentence appears in the proposal that Eximbank can finance domestic real estate development companies, then let us be very, very benevolent and, in my normal comment, I will also throw in serious political arguments, but I just have to respond to the general system approach that Minister has shared with us, then we can start in a very good direction. For example, if the Government of Hungary really supported Hungarian companies, those in the productive sphere, and, by the way, the banking system would also make loans available to it, and these companies, such as the Carpathian Basin Economic Zone, would make meaningful investments in creating jobs in the disconnected parts of the country on the century anniversary of Trianon, this would be a beautiful symbol that we could agree on, and I could support that. However, there is another aspect. The real estate development companies that we know in Hungary have gained amazing wealth in the last ten years, with respect for the exception, but mostly not in completely clean conditions. I say to Minister that in what areas these problems have appeared only in my life, and this is a very bottlenecks in the Hungarian economy. As a resident of Óbuda, I had to see that a change ban was correctly imposed on the Roman coast, so it was not possible to build a residential park there. Then came the local city administration, and there was a sort of lobby or coercion, and this change ban was lifted for about a month, and interestingly, a supposedly government-wide real estate developer was allowed to install a residential park on the beach. The preparation of this work began, and then a miracle, and a change ban was once again imposed, so that nothing else could be properly built there. So that's the kind of interesting thing we're dealing with on a micro level. At the same time, we also see that we simply need to talk about the Calvary of foreign exchange credentials in this area. Minister, during your dating governance since 2010, more than ten thousand people have been thrown out of their homes without accommodation, including children, vulnerable elderly people, patients, family members who could not have been in such an unworthy situation. Obviously, my personal impressions are strong, as we have tried to help dozens of such events. By the way, there have been some opposition fellow Members in this Chamber, with whom we have fought shoulder to shoulder in these events, and I am proud of that. I would also like to see the pro-government fellow Members in the line of battle with us. But I would also like to say that, in the presumptive way that I have no direct evidence of this, and I do not have any direct evidence of it, but the stories come back to order that real estate developers within the government's narrow sphere of knowledge have made a real profit in the mass acquisition of collapsed properties. So please accept, Minister, that when we talk about allowing for any expansion of the real estate portfolio, people have these negative thoughts, and in view of this, they must evaluate these events under such an optic. We also see that if this support crowd were to support the micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector in a productive way, then we would have no problem, then our vote would be so strong that this button would really loosen up here. But what we see again in terms of export financing is that we have to have a quantity versus quality debate. In itself, the quantity can be strengthened and improved by the attached methods, but we can see that quality is not mentioned in the proposal and that no one has spoken in the expo. So what we should be seeing is the composition of the beneficiary circle or of the exporting companies, the real estate development companies. Mr Secretary, you will obviously be here until the end of the debate, so there will be an opportunity for us to conduct this discussion among ourselves, and I can be reassured. If I get answers to my questions, I'm completely open to meaningful communication. We also see that if we are talking about lending micro-segment, this 0.1 percent interest rate option could also be good, so this could be done in a way that is acceptable. However, I also see that the victory report we have heard about the Hungarian economy simply does not hold up in this way and in this form. I am very pleased that 4.5 million people are paying taxes instead of 1.8 million citizens, just to see how this has been achieved, Mr Secretary of State. For example, the minimum wage, which was previously exempt, is now taxed. You also count in this statistics, which is how 1.8 became 4.5, that our non-taxable countrymen, thus benefiting from discounts, are now taxed, you have taxed them. It must be acknowledged that when you talk about these statistics. We also need to mention three additional statistical tricks, which were not before, and now yes. Since 2010, what have you counted as registered posts? Student workers, for example, who were not previously included. They include many of our countrymen working abroad who have not completely eliminated their relationship with the public. I don't want to underestimate, discredit public employment, I could support this system very, very, very well myself. But it is strange to me that statistics, which, by the way, count on the same line of student workers who, say, take 2-3 hours of auxiliary work per week in a food business, which is very good for you to do, should be supported in this, but Mr. State Secretary is on the same line in this budget. I think we should at least see a breakdown here, and we cannot start from the macro number alone. I have the same opinion on GDP data, the same opinion on export data. So the truth always lies in the deep. I see that this breakdown has been completely omitted from this proposal and its justification. Once again, I see eligible elements in it, but as long as we can't resolve these obscurities, it is very, very difficult for us to do so. What I have just said in the speaker's speech was this bona fide approach, because I see very dark shadows behind this proposal, very dark lobbying forces and intentions. In Hungary since 2010, when the word "real estate development" has been added to the horizon, we must not assume that there is a hundred billion dollars in the wealth of the oligarchs near Fidesz, but we must see it. Once again, it's infiltrated my microenvironment, Obuda in this way. Obviously, all fellow Members could share similar stories. One of the meanest, perhaps we can say, is that it has become so popular since 2010, it is that, of course, they are also stealing, and they have oligarchs that the hand is leaning towards, but one of the nerves is that they have already acquired the situation, that the attached figure does not prove this, and on the other hand, everyone would have their own oligarchs. [[11.10]] I would like to live in a world, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members, where there are no such chosen persons, where there are no fortunate beneficiaries of good friends, where, in the midst of a change ban, no one can build the Roman coast in the middle of my residence if the community, the public, has decided that there is no and no possibility of doing so. I don't like these tricky solutions. I hate it when beneficiaries are able to make a fortune with much less investment and other people's problems at the expense of other people's misery. I dream of a world where that can't happen. And I do not want to let go of the dream of creating this world in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-05-05-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard, Eximbank has a major role to play in relaunching the current crisis caused by the coronal virus and is already available to Hungarian businesses with various credit programmes and guarantee schemes. I think that in the task that many people have to play their part in re-launching the economy, Eximbank is an important player. Hungary is a major export authority, which has been able to export more than EUR 100 billion annually in the last three years, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Only 35 countries in the world are able to export more than EUR 100 billion annually, and Hungary is a member of this elite club. Last year, the Hungarian economy closed a record year, tilting and surpassing the record years of 2018 and 2017. In 2019 the total investment in Hungary reached HUF 1705 billion, which is an absolute record. In recent years Hungary has become not only the destination and destination of investors, but also the Hungarian companies can invest in other countries. Hungarian-owned companies made ten large investments in 2019 with a total value of 126 billion HUF. Of course, the crisis and economic difficulties that have arisen as a result of the corona virus pandemic have also affected Hungary, but we against the opposition think that it is not necessary to keep people on welfare, but to do everything to create at least as many new jobs as the virus takes. According to the opposition, it is necessary to stop investments, to cut down, to tighten up, to settle for long periods of unemployment. Of course that's what they think now, because that's what they've done before, that's what they're good at. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments closed more than a thousand kilometres of railway lines in 2007 and 2009, unemployment increased to 12.5 percent, 200,000 people were laid off, squeezed, and raised taxes. That is the crisis management gap, ladies and gentlemen. The crises have also shown us the need to diversify investment, export activities and the direction of exports as far as possible. Of course, the opposition is also violently attacking this because they have slept through the last few years and have ignored the fact that today capital and technology flow from east to west as much as from west to east, and unfortunately, we will have to work together on this together in the future only moderately strong player in the world. Fortunately, the Hungarian government is not sleeping, but is constantly working and has recognised this new situation, so it has developed serious economic relations with, among other things, Central Asia, the Southeast Asian region and the Western Balkans. Thank you for the work of the foreign economic portfolio, for the record results so far. I think that the most important task of the foreign economy is that, with the end of the crisis and the recovery of the economy, Hungarian businesses expect a fresh start in a fast, efficient situation and that we can achieve rapid external economic success, because as a country exposed to exports, our export activity will play a major role in relaunching the economy, eliminating unemployment and preserving and restarting the results achieved so far. Eximbank is a good help for that. The KDNP faction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. I'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on. It's okay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard a lot of things here today that we are an export power and that the opposition wants to stop government orders if we can and do not want to. Another question is, of course, what the budget is spending in this situation. It is always a clear choice of value, and we say that it is education, health and businesses that are now facing the greatest challenge that no one has ever seen before, that they cannot be assessed. Our position is, of course, that development there must be promoted and supported, not spent on prestige or sport investment. That is all we say, my honourable fellow Member, on these matters. What is different about crisis management is that, as you can see, and as we have already talked about, companies want to indebte: they should take credit. They offer loans, not budget subsidies. It is true that, with regard to the budget, there is at the moment not much agreement between the government, the central bank or the Banking Federation on how much the budget deficit will be, how much the budget deficit can be released and how much the recession will be. I think that Hungary is certainly at the forefront of this, where the President of the Central Bank says that there will be a 3 percent increase and the Minister of Finance says that there will be a 3 percent recession. There's a six percent difference between the two. The Hungarian government is certainly at the forefront of this. But if, like my better fellow Member, we try to take a good stand on this issue, we must learn from it at least as much as you do not necessarily know, nor do most of the world know, what we are dealing with, how long it will take, how deep an economic downturn this will bring. Let's see the measures you're taking. On the one hand, they lend loans to companies. That's what we say they're gonna pay for the check. Companies pay the bills, not the budget. They're borrowing loans with the companies, no matter how favourable interest they are, but they're getting loans from the companies, that's what they're offering them. This is obviously a difference between why they don't get budget support and why they don't beat the table for EU funding. This would really be worth a door slamming with Brussels about why Hungarian companies can't get more. You're offering me a loan. Well, who's gonna take credit now when your company's in a crash? Either you lost your client or you lost your supplier, or you lost both. You can't keep your employees, but you tell them to take out a loan. How are they gonna repay you? I talked to a lot of company owners, and I'm sure you've been talking to company owners, and I haven't seen them in the Chamber's proposal, nor have I seen these incentives for borrowing in companies in the MGYOSZ proposal. Well, what would they be borrowing for now? ! How do they know what the economic situation will be like in three months, six months from now, or next year, and they already have a loan to start paying back. Of course, that raises a question. The truth is, we've had a lot more experience with you than we have any illusions left. This loan is granted with the intention of allowing the debtor to repay it. This loan is not granted with the intention of not being able to repay it later and to acquire firms selected through liquidation, enforcement and other procedures. It is given with the intention, and that would be a reassuring answer so that the debtor can repay it. This is the intention of issuing these loans. We have listened to the Minister: faster, simpler lending, faster, simpler export activity. I believe that speed and simplicity are not necessarily two aspects of export activity. Cooking may be a matter of being quick and simple, but planning an export-import activity should be preceded by a strategy, an assessment of the results of the past period, of course, corrected at some level with regard to the situation on the world market caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and an appropriate strategy should be developed for this purpose. [[11.20]] What we see now is that it is not actually an initiative, it is a follow-up, you follow how the Minister put it? the new rules of the game, not the new ones, the demands that the partners make against you, are simply met. What we see at the moment is that it is easier to meet these expectations than to create a strategy even faster, obviously than to formulate for us what requirements, what conditions we want to establish for those who want to cooperate with us. And most of all, I hope that speed will not be at the expense of the ability of debtors, partners, capital adequacy, financial conditions, profitability, returns, risk assessments will be as they should be, so that these methods will continue to work in the future, because if they do not work, then this is simple rush and chaos. Obviously, if there's a rush and there's chaos, then there are those who can fish in this mess, and, yes, we've seen a few of them. Yes, you are the ones who have a very strange interpretation of the PPP system, which you are, by the way, cursing where the civil sector is, or if you will, the business sector and the public sector are in partnership. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I see the expression of my fellow Member, and I will open it to you: civil society or business partnership with the public sector is no stranger to you... [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] A business sphere, not a state sphere, that's how you understand it, my honourable fellow Member, and it's easier this way. It's not that far from you, by the way. It was not so long ago, it should not be forgotten, when Spéder Zoltán gained control in the Hungarian Post, in one of the largest state companies for HUF 50 million, he nominated half of the supervisory board and half of the board of directors by buying a package of shares, and the best thing the Hungarian state could achieve in the two governing bodies in a state company was the stalemate. Then we saw that, on the proposal of the then Minister of Economy, who had bought Postage Bonds or who had placed a Postage Deposit, by the way, FHB, i.e. the bond of the bank marked by the name of Zoltán Spéder, managed to purchase its deposit. This is your PPP system, where you have the chosen people who can cooperate with the state, who are doing very well on this, looking for you; well, then, when there is a settlement dispute, as with the resulting Spéder, you will obviously tell us that you have to stand up from the card table, of course, the prize can be taken away. Such was the settlement policy, my honourable fellow Member, where offshore companies were simply selling Hungarian citizenship, which were not in any way selected, and on the proposal of Minister Antal Rogán, the Parliament commissioned the Economic Committee led by Antal Rogán to select the companies that were appropriate to convey Hungarian citizenship. There's one here called Gubicza Augustine. It is Agoston Gubicza who can otherwise participate in venture capital fund alongside Eximbank who is next in this row. So it seems here that it is not necessarily unfounded to say that, yes, we have much more experience with you than we have any illusions left. After Spéder, after the offshore companies selling settlement bonds, we are now meeting with Gubicza Ágoston, who remained in this capital fund, which, by the way, is already being capitalized once by 16 billion, and then later, with 40 billion forints, and he benefits, well, and the pair he's in good company with, those he needs to serve to benefit. We have seen such examples, therefore, and we see that precisely because we have seen this model, we have seen it at the Post Office, we have seen it at the settlement bonds, we also see it at Eximbank, we believe that the reference to efficiency and speed in this case does not mean that this will be good for Hungarian companies; this will be good for those chosen by the finger of the dear leader, who will be successful during your time. It will not be a successful one who has learned much, who has learned the tricks of his profession through success and failure, but to whom the finger of the dear leader will point out that he will be financed by Gubicza; the question is that you will finance the others with the intention of paying it back or not with the intention of financing it because it has a different name. What we see is that, unfortunately, a system that serves the interests of couples is being built with which companies are being owed a debt, and once again, because of the experience, we see that this seems more confusing than transparent for the time being. We trust Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, we trust those who employ 60% of Hungarian workers, they are the ones who give the backbone of the Hungarian economy, so their watch must be taken care of infinitely, not only of the chosen ones, but of all of them. And it's been two months since the introduction of the crisis and the announcement of this package on April 6th, today is May 5th, we can talk about it now, we're a month late, which may be unimportable. And I would ask you to reconsider that you are not indebted to companies, but to use budgetary resources to pay attention to these companies. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-05-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-41	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, I think that with the opportunity to sit up for the provocation of Lőrinc Nacsa, who for three minutes was talking about something completely different, and in some historical retrospect, something that had nothing to do with the presentation, I'm not living right now. I have heard that KDNP will support the proposal that the opposition parties see as one by one, but in essence, at least from what we have seen so far, it seems clear that, while there is an institution established in 1994, Eximbank, the related Mehib, which manages insurance matters along these loans, this construction is a necessary and important institution for the Hungarian economy. For Hungarian businesses, this is a service where, if there are greater risks, which banks are not willing to finance, it is possible here from the state's side, precisely because of the fact that they can obtain loans from public budget sources, i.e. from taxes on companies that can receive, of course, far less than they have paid, but from the resources of the state budget. However, in this construction, which has worked here in the past and, as I said, has been working since 1994, there have been practices in this, which make sure that people whose opinions are being consulted or who give their views on this. And in practice, we're about to knock down the window, right, when taxpayers' money is financing Andy Vajna's company, it doesn't just make us careful, but immediately says that what you're doing is unacceptable. [[11.30]] In addition, this has nothing to do with what the company, Export-Import Bank, has in its articles of association Eximbank, does not serve its purposes, and has nothing to do with talking about improving the external economic conditions in order to establish and expand the export activity of companies. So in this respect, you have used a method and provided procedures, grants that are certain to belong to the non-supported category. From the past, if I have yet to set such an example, not so long ago, a few months ago, you are on the support or credit line of the Turk Council for EUR 382 million... [[By car-Cake Olivio:]] dollar, thank you very much, my fellow Member, so you have also managed to agree on a dollar credit line. Surely, Mr Secretary of State will help us to see how much of this credit line has been called down and how much it has been realised, which has helped to generate around $4 billion in turnover that has developed over the past period, how much this will contribute to its development. And how interesting it would be for Hungarian businesses to be able to help during this period, when they are in an increasingly difficult situation due to the global economic crisis. I think you shouldn't be surprised that if I mention at least one sentence from the fact that, during this period, the government is unable to produce a meaningful economic aid package for businesses and people, and the tossing that they have been doing for months puts companies on the brink of ruins, I think it is unacceptable. I even consider, by the way, that I would add or mention that some of this might be conscious, although I think you were surprised at the beginning when you had to make a decision on crisis management, and you should have taken action. They didn't do that, so here we are. And then one more question, I'm sorry, I'd like to ask you. You signed an agreement with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry not long ago, this was last autumn, which is certainly important in terms of cooperation and general frameworks. However, if we listen to the president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry these days, it was on his part, on the basis of what he said, about 18 thousand companies that expressed their opinions and expect them to receive substantial help from the state in order to survive. Then it would certainly be worth telling you where you are and how much the Act on Eximbank will serve this, if you want to open this to domestic activity, to domestic business. Based on the experience of the past, in summary, I can tell you that if you want to use this to be a successful entrepreneur in the real estate market, who, let's just say, can be listed by name, where you can be successful with a few hundred, thousand apartments or with public investments and constructions, there are not too many people who are missing out, because we know them well from the press. Therefore, if you are preparing this form now, or I am not asking you this, but I say that yes, you are doing this, that is what you are doing, and the rules that the Prime Minister has ordered to amend, I think, and accordingly, as my fellow Member said here, in a manner that can be traced to the persons, to the decision-making persons, I think that supporting votes of the opposition will not be necessary to support this law, and it cannot be granted, in my opinion. Not even because if I look back on an earlier amendment like this, which you presented in 2014, which allowed the grants and credit agreements that I mentioned here as an example, see Andy Vajna's contract, these show that you are allowed, as some actors in a corrupt system, to do otherwise criminal acts. I find this unacceptable, and I am very sorry that, in fact, government and banking professionals are giving their faces to these unacceptable loans for money. And it is true that sooner or later you will have to account for how much these loans will pay off, how much risks there are in these, and for those people who today give their names to such credit schemes or credit contracts for millions of forints of salary, you will have to account for why they did so. For this reason, you would like to have a new mandate after 2014 in which, in the course of the transformation of the real estate market and the increase in its risks, you will create the possibility for the state to invest directly in these businesses in such a way, which, if it were to be competitively neutral, I believe that it would be possible to bear it, but based on the experience of the past period, we will be able to name by name who you will have, just as with the Hungarian National Bank, the list of companies that it directly finances can be specifically linked to the governing parties that have presented it, and will do so, and therefore nothing good can be expected of you in this respect. They should serve to improve the international competitiveness and export activity of financing companies, but I do not think that this can very well be done. The bill just submitted does not comply with international standards. Otherwise, it is in fact contrary to the Bank's statutes, and on this basis we do not support the above proposal, nor do we want it to be accepted, but it depends, of course, on you. Sooner or later, they will tell themselves what the consequences of these decisions have been, how much damage they have done financially. And if you do not want to account for this, or do not do so, either in front of the Committee on Budgets, then you will all be forced to account for it after the elections. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-05-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The first word is gratitude. We have to thank Imre Steindl for not getting the ceiling after the Minister's exposé. I think that this is a wonderful thing, and this shows the safety of all of us; because I think that when you talk about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in connection with this proposal, Minister, the knife stops in the air. If this law is passed, Eximbank can finance real estate development and can also play a role in the operation, and yes, let us not be unfair, Eximbank has already financed a mass of small and micro-enterprises. [[11.40]] Let's go in line. Eximbank financed the development of the small business operator István Garancsi's property in Kopaszi dam worth HUF 16 billion, but the micro-contractor also loaned to Andrew Vajna for the purchase of TV2 worth more than HUF 13 billion. In comparison, of course, Vamsler SE, belonging to the Opimus Group, owned by Mészáros Lőrinc, was also supported by 933 million. I believe that this bank's support for small and micro-enterprises has started in this direction and continues in this direction. But it is worth looking at the big picture of what the bill before us is about, in addition to the fact that Eximbank is moving towards real estate development, the real estate market, because I think it is worth starting where it started. Antal Rogán's real estate management, which became known as the mayor of downtown, has taught us all how important the real estate market is to Fidesz. They have learned that this is a good business, and they have also learned how to promote this type of activity with various regulations and laws. It's worth checking out what's happened since then, because I think we're gonna get a nice whole picture. First they took the second degree of construction authority out of the hands of the municipalities, then the first degree of construction authority. From this point forward, the municipalities and since October have had a real significance for the construction rules of their own settlement, for example, as a result of these decisions, it is not possible to conduct a city-view procedure. In addition, we can see and experience precisely from day to day, minute to minute, the conversion into a priority investment in the national economy, and it is worth mentioning in connection with this law that this was the Government's decree of April 29, 161-2020, six days ago, my fellow Members, in fact, at the XI. in the district, a development linked to István Tiborcz was classified as a priority investment, and a VIII. Designed for development in a district area, also known as downtown. What's wrong with that? The fact that this harms the interests of the people there, but you have made the rules to ensure that these harms are achieved without appeal. You are on the side of capital against the people who live here; because of the fact that VIII. Let's stick to district investment, it's worth looking at what the people living there have to say. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Piko?]] András Piko, yes, at least he represents the people who live there, unlike Fidesz-KDNP. So based on the letter from the people there, and this can be proven because we have verified that the planned investment will seriously violate the privacy rights of those living there due to the proximity of the construction distance. Your property value will be significantly reduced, but it doesn't matter to you, because we have learned from Antal Rogán to this day that you are on the side of real estate developers, whether you must or not. But we can also approach this bill, as the Minister said in his exposé, that there is a next step in the economic rescue package. Yeah, we're looking at a buddy's economic rescue package here. I've already listed who's been funded by the Eximbank so far, and it's pretty much the picture that the rules have been nicely adapted to the interests of the real estate developers, and now they're getting the last part of the problem, right? I think, as strange as it is, there is nothing else in this law that lies before us. I think that this is why I will not be long, because I have often drawn attention to these facts and processes in the debate on many legislative proposals. I think it's a shame and a shame that you're still thinking about your own oligarchs in the middle of an epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is time to wake up and instead of having their own economic background, it is time to finally support the majority of society and those in need and to address their problems. If that were the important thing, we couldn't have this bill lying in front of us. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will also try to be brief, my opposition colleagues have shot most of the jokes. That's the damage if you come last. Firstly, I would like to say that technical amendments to the amendments to the law on foreign representations, permanent external service, freedom and social security are eligible. If that's all there is to the bill, we could totally support it. Eximbank's main portfolio should be to help small and medium-sized enterprises producing for foreign markets. I fully agree with the Minister, it would be very important, it would be good if this support could really be used by companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are currently suffering from liquidity problems, and they could use it. Obviously, this would be particularly important in the context of the epidemic. However, the experience is that they are not the only ones, or most of the time they do not receive these loans. What we see is that it's becoming more secretive where people who have good relations with the Fides are given the right credit and support. My fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, told me about these cases here. I also have a small problem with the order, because we are indeed in the middle of an epidemic, where I do not find what the government has done to the entrepreneurs to ensure that they continue to operate, to ensure that they can at least keep the workforce. While they were talking about creating a lot of work for the next three months, I didn't even see it as a guarantee that they could keep the current job. So I feel this is a little premature, because we are talking about real estate companies who are probably still in the best shape of the crisis at the moment, while companies who are in real danger are not getting enough support. But it's okay, they obviously need support sooner or later. I have questions about this. If this proposal comes into play in the epidemic situation, I am very curious about the criteria for assessing it; so, whoever receives credit has a condition of how they relate to job creation, how the company reacts to maintaining the existing workforce. After all, if this proposal really came on the table of the House to help these companies in the epidemic situation, then this is a very important aspect. I also have one more question: I really want to know who you have discussed this with, what companies, what advocacy organisations, what chambers have indicated that this is the typical portfolio, this property portfolio, and this should be included in the lending framework, this is necessary, there is a need for this amendment. [[11.50]] So who told you that this was necessary? I'm genuinely curious about that. Obviously, I also have fears about who will receive these loans. So, overall, I have a lot of questions, or at least two. We have fears about this, but I would not say one more definite no or yes to support the bill; if we were given reassuring answers, we could even consider support. So I'm looking forward to the answers. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to the independent representatives of the first speaker. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to some important points. One is an economic philosophy difference between my position and the government's. Otherwise, the government does not consider export growth to be appropriate and in mind in an unprecedented way, even in almost every economy in the world. However, I would also like to draw attention to the point that, if we look at the cost-proportional return on the various investments, it is more appropriate to concentrate existing resources on products and services that are suitable for export on the domestic market, in a larger part than at present and less so on. What exactly am I thinking? My fellow Members, we are guaranteed that we will be able to compete more easily with others on the domestic market than, let us say, on the external markets. I know that it produces less spectacular success for the political world if a business wins on the domestic market, because we consider this to be natural, but when a business wins on the foreign market, everyone gets a head start. Here, however, it is also very important to stress that in Hungary it is now in most sectors..., I say that it is not worth looking at which sectors, in most sectors, the economic presence of foreign companies dominates, and this is a market leader. In particular, it is worth looking at the fact that the government has put regulation on real estate funds before us through our Eximbank on how, for example, real estate investments are developing in downtown Budapest. We are talking about how much Hungarian real estate investors will invest abroad with the help of Eximbank. I agree with this aim, by the way. Moreover, there is nothing to object from the point of view of banking if Eximbank is otherwise financing profitable, profitable and profitable companies. If this is done by an oligarch, if it is done by a competing company operating without any party affiliation, it doesn't matter to the bank, it is important to him that this enterprise or this investment is repaid. Here, however, it is very important to see how we are thinking about developing real estate funds abroad, while foreign real estate investments in Budapest are increasingly dominant. My fellow Members are sure to know that 40 percent of tourism is concentrated in Budapest, for example, and that much of the tourist revenue from the tourist tax falls within the V. district, and virtually no Hungarian hotel can be found within the V. district. It's all foreign-owned hotels. One of them is the Gresham Palace in the operation of Four Seasons, which was privatized, for example, by a former Prime Minister of Hungary, the former ally of Balliberal parties, Péter Medgyessy's consulting company, which took part in this privatisation, and in rather distasteful circumstances. And it is worth thinking that while we are thinking about foreign investments with Hungarian money, foreign companies in our own capital are taking away the possibility of capital income from Hungarian people. The Hungarian economy has the opportunity to recover, permanently, in the long term, in a sustainable way, if we not only realise income from work, but also realise income from capital, as much as possible, especially within our own country. What's this all about? The Hungarian people can go, say, to work in the hotel of an Arab investor in Hungary, so they get their wages, but in addition, the country realizes very little of this, because the owner of the capital takes the profits generated here naturally from the country, takes it home to his own country, typically spends it elsewhere. I would therefore also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the same way as in industrial investments, it is worth focusing on the fact that we will increase the share of Hungary within our own economy, in a much more cost-effective way, with less risk-taking than with the various investment strategies of Eximbank on the basis of the guidelines set out in the investment policy. It is very important to stress that the Hungarian economy is particularly open and vulnerable, and the Hungarian construction performance has increased compared to recent years, but if we now look at the state of Hungary in terms of housing performance, for example, compared to 2003-2004, we are seriously underachieving. I do not yet see the increase in construction capacity that would allow significant domestic real estate investments to be increased. I just think the country's on the capacity side. However, it is very important to see that what we have just discussed is real estate investments on the external markets. I agree with the government's justification that these are low-risk investments. Typically, they operate in a predictable manner, multi-annual rental arrangements dominate this market, with a certain income to be calculated from the rent. I don't think it's wrong for the state itself to enter these areas as an investor. However, it is very important to see that, even within the ruling party, politics has been very shaky in this area in recent years. Let me tell you, fellow Members, an example. In Hungary, one of the well-known and, by the way, the real estate investments involving one of our fellow Members, Mr Böröcz, were the Fashion Street investment in the city centre, which I understand was... [[To intervene:]] I am talking about Fashion Street downtown, which I understand was practically attacked by the municipality during the congressman's sub-Mayorship, and terminated the contract for the use of Deák Ferenc utca with the given contractor, while, by the way, another Fidesz politician, Antal Rogán, concluded it, a government run by him. If, therefore, investors in the Hungarian real estate market see that even within a party there are different fights tearing up the security of investment and the lasting existence of this contract, I cannot judge that this was a good contract, nor would I like to take a stand in it; it may be that Congressman Böröcz was right; I would suggest that this is more likely if they see that they work in an idea and, where appropriate, as a result of an internal battle within a party, radically change the content of a 50-year lease agreement, then we should not be surprised that these uncertainties on the real estate market lead to less love of the Hungarian real estate market by investors, and partly lead to higher risk investments, and the most unpleasant contribution is that they are trying to find political connections for themselves. I did not want to mention it separately, but if my fellow Members have already done so, here is the fate of the real estate investment at the Kopaszi dam. In itself, I do not doubt that from the point of view of banking engineering, Eximbank will be a profitable investment. It is therefore worth financing this investment financially from the bank's point of view, but also the circumstances of this investment go beyond, let us say, the limits of good taste. What's this about? A well-known pro-government businessman buys an abandoned building site, for which a complete change in construction regulations suddenly appears, it will be possible to build a tower of amazing heights, and in addition to this residential park in the affected area, approximately 30 thousand people will also show their work and residence, causing new public transport problems to Budapest. [[12.00]] My problem alone is not that the government is pursuing an investor-friendly policy, but I already have a problem with it when it happens in such a way that, where appropriate, an investment is possible and, as a result of a regulation amendment, the value of the land invested in itself increases several times, because the policy allows this change to be made for it. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would therefore encourage my fellow Members to be more predictable, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that, while it is investment policy, I would very much like you to focus more than ever on domestic products, services and domestic real estate investments over foreigners. By the way, as a last and interesting point for the Secretary of State, it would be worth considering that Hungary only allows foreign investors to invest in Hungary, where Hungarian investors can invest in real estate in Hungary equally efficiently, without any administrative or legal constraints. This happens more than once in an asymmetrical situation, as other countries, as well as, where appropriate, Hungarian investors, make foreign investments in their own market impossible by administrative means, but this can be done without any problems in Hungary. I don't think that's a good thing in any way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-05-48	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two minutes' speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-05-49	Mr President, Dear House, Most of all, I would like to call on Mr Secretary of State not to say a closing word at the very end of the debate, because this would be a less elegant method, and we would have much less opportunity to react here, only through social media. I think that there could be a fair professional debate here. Not only in terms of what it is said that the government considers a career for fortunate real estate developers, but also in several opposition keynote speakers, that there is another foot in the story: if we talk about real estate development, there is no way around housing crisis or cataclysms. And what we see is that although there are no evictions in Hungary right now, and I welcome that, by the way, I consider this to be a fortunate achievement proposed by Jobbik from the first day of the crisis, it is very good that he has gone through, but now our countrymen are going into an emergency situation that this Parliament is not talking about. The government has nothing to say, it has a message for those who may have lost a wage or receive a reduced wage, but they still have to pay rent; and in the midst of a comprehensive housing crisis, it is as if the government is now trying to leave it to the market so that rent prices can be reduced a little, and the salary may be less, but people will calm down. The fact is that this comprehensive cataclysm should be dealt with. I see that so much energy is needed to help rich real estate developers, and I say once again, if it is filtered down to the microsegment, then I think there is something to argue about, if not, then there is nothing, but I would expect the government to manifest itself in the context of a crisis affecting a large number of Hungarian people and affecting similar developments in the real estate market. That's what I'd like to say, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2020-05-05-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is much to respond to, and I have been particularly struck by opposition speeches from Mr Cook's speech, namely PPP schemes. [[Dr. László Kács: Which one?]] PPP constructions, so to speak in Hungarian, [[English pronunciation:]] It could be a PPP in English. This was a very popular model of yours between 2002 and 2010. Congressman, in 2019 you said that in a country you can see what you spend on your budget, what is your priority; you would spend on education and health, we spend much more on education and health than the last budget you adopted in 2010 cost this country, the Hungarian taxpayers, 130 billion forints that you concluded harmful contracts in 2006-2007. Even now, in 2019, it cost Hungarian taxpayers 130 billion forints, and so far. Prison constructions, highway constructions, higher education college constructions. And why did you come up with the PPP scheme? In the meantime, you don't have to take credit. But what happened during all this? Government debt rose from 50 percent to 82 percent. So they also took out a loan, and the Hungarian taxpayers still have to pay for the harmful contracts that you have given to your friends. So please don't accuse us of PPP schemes when, even now, in this year's budget, last year's budget, there are serious tens of billions of people going to these harmful contracts you have entered into, rather than, by the way, going for important purposes to be determined jointly. It is your responsibility and your fault that the Hungarian budget has been burdened with such harmful contracts for many years, only so that their friends can renovate a prison or two or two colleges. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, also in a two-minute timeframe.
u2020-05-05-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I spoke about the PPP scheme in a different way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I thought it wasn't about this!]] By the way, as you have finished your contribution, and so that your friends can redecorate: look around the country where Garanchek, Speders, Butchers grow out of the ground. Sometimes they fail because of this sort of settlement dispute, but I brought the PPP scheme here for example because of Zoltán Spéder, where for HUF 50 million a class C share managed to sell all the Hungarian Posta's management rights. Zoltán Spéder had a corporate empire that could appoint half the board of directors and the supervisory board. The best that your government could achieve at that moment was a stalemate in one of Hungary's strategically important state-owned companies employing 30-35 thousand people. This is a tailored PPP programme. And so was the fact that Hungarian sovereign debt, government bonds, no mainly Hungarian citizenship, residence permit, Schengen entry permit were sold by offshore companies that no one knew where they were registered, who they were linked to. And they sold quite a bit of it. And, my honourable fellow Member, if you have already talked about how much this costs to Hungarians, those bonds will expire. They started to expire last year. And, you know, it's a debt note, and the Hungarians will pay it back. Not the companies that you and your Economic Committee have entrusted, but indeed, the Hungarian taxpayers will repay, not little, but much. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-05-55	Mr President, Dear House, For the sake of the leaders of the minutes, who are excellent international authorities, I agree with Lorrin Nacsa on the criticism of the system in relation to most of the economic processes before 2010. I think we have a diagnosis in common. That is why I am asking why you were able to continue this methodology. I may not see it in PPPs, but in other ways, but I see the same pure neoliberal attitude. And by the way, in the market of real estate developers, there is also the lucky, very narrow, or even name-by-name selections, who are reached by the discount mass, and in some way hope the Orbán government has been doing this since 2010, I think it is wrong, and there is a gap between us on this issue, that these benefits will come to the lucky chosen ones, from the upper middle class up to all social groups, and if they give someone a trafic, a tobacco store, a piece of land, and then, outside the narrow family core, these blessings will also come down to the wide family, and thus, in a chemically neoliberal way, the few can make a successful, contented society. My fellow Members, I can't! [[12.10]] And when I listen to their system criticism before 2010, yes, I agree on a lot of things, I just see that the same methods, the same methodologies go on and our decades go on. So now you have enjoyed celebrating the 30th anniversary of the alleged change of regime without us, but I would like to say that the overall picture is not as positive as it is painted here. So once again, we agree on system criticism, but why doesn't anything change? The fact is that you have mentioned a number of questions in your exposé, which I have not been able to give the right political answer to, but I would like it and it is necessary. As regards the other leg mentioned above, as far as housing or real estate business is concerned, we can see that there is no response from a pro-government representative. I understand that the strategy to listen politely to or to suffer from opposition representatives can obviously broaden this range, but let us agree with a parliament that it is not its job. I very much hope that when this current government is in opposition, because sooner or later this moment will come, he will not be so unfair that he will not be given a specific professional answer to specific professional questions, but the other leg is missing. We have an incredibly loose rental market, the domestic real estate market, which my colleague has already said a few words about in terms of downtown real estate. The Government of Hungary has not even reached a decent regulation of Airbnb since 2010, which I consider to be a serious problem because many of our countrymen face on a daily basis unrealistic cost of living, which, in previous eras, were somewhat involved in the salary of a man and then in the income of the family. One of the very damaging effects of globalisation is that housing costs have been virtually externalised from previous payments, and the families are struck by the need to typically finance them from some additional sources. Compared to the average wage in Hungary, let's say, with the average costs of rents in Budapest or metropolitan, we see that it would actually take one more salary to produce this. And this is merely a market anomaly, depending on supply and demand conditions, because while the government now gives an encouraging hand to foreign real estate investments with this proposal, and a legitimate professional debate on how this can be done, it is worthwhile or appropriate to do so, it does not seem to deal with the same anomalies in the internal market, as it allowed rent prices to be released. I am far from the Berlin-type draft, the official freeze, as I am a market economy economist, but I must say that doing nothing is the worst thing in this situation. With the concept of "Our Castle" the Jobbik put on the table that there should be a public background building a mass of rent apartments. Following the construction of the mass of these apartments, they should be moved by a very reduced rent, or even by half or a third of the current market rents. Six to eight years of successful coexistence, and what is very important is that after strict compliance with the rules of social co-existence, it is necessary to start talking to movers about how and how to buy these properties at cost. In this way, within a decade, by broadening the supply side, we would be able to achieve the relative and decisive price reduction and price reduction that the government cannot now produce by any means. However, if we want Hungarian families to thrive at home, to have children, and successfully, through generations, to increase this country, this country, we cannot do that we do not take these amazing processes into account. That's what pains me to hear in the explanatory statement today that what lies before us is one of the steps of the economic rescue package. I understand that this package will help some companies, but I see that the other leg, which is about typical Hungarian people's typical problems, is simply not ready. Not only will it not become a bill, it will not even be debated by Parliament. What we see is what we should be discussing here today in terms of the economic rescue package, such as a discharge moratorium for multi-company companies. After all, what we see is that the car companies that are benefiting from it and at a very serious level this government are releasing their employees in a harsh, often cruel manner, and we are talking about companies who receive the benefits from the taxes of other Hungarian people, but even from the tax payments of those who have just been laid off, which are able to make outstanding profits in Hungary. We should discuss today the involvement of the banking system in public burdens. After all, we see that I do not want to use a very negative indicator of 30-40 billion forints, but they are burdened with these items, which are sold to the press, but which are not real. But if you do nothing but grab your office machine, you hit Google that you will find in one of the first articles you will find a diagram of banking costs for low incomes United Kingdom: zero percent; medium countries, Germany, France: the middle of the list, and you will find Hungary where these costs are high, perhaps the highest in the region, while we have a banking system that produces over 600 billion in the last measured period, a record profit throughout the region. Compared to this, he now takes 30, 40, 50 billion from the epidemiological defense, so he really is a dwarf item, while the parties are 50 percent. We'll face it, but we'll have to carry a public burden. Why I would list this register, if we added the revenue side of this, there would be a source not only of support and funding for foreign real estate investments by the fortunate, but also of domestic, i.e. internal leg. Once again, the housing cataclysm must not be denied, and if there was so much energy on this proposal, I am very confident that in the coming weeks we will have the proposal to address everyone's problems, not simply to give a purely neoliberal benefit to the lucky ones. I don't even say that it's unfair in every case because I believe in the market and believe in a strong national economy. I am very close to the idea that Hungarian investors should increase not only our country's reputation, but also its incomes, but I can only see that this proposal was made for the lucky few. I don't want to name them again, and I don't want to swing the political club here, because that's not my goal, but what I see is that a very wide crowd of people will not be able to live with this proposal. If Hungarian micro-enterprises can even taste a little bit of preferential credit, I will be happy with it, but it cannot be denied the amazing domestic crisis in the internal market, which this proposal does not handle. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-05-56	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-05-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is a belief or legend in theatres, perhaps from Chekhov, that if a rifle is brought to the stage, it must be fired by the end of the third act. Dániel Z. Carpathian put me in a similar position to speak before the end of the debate so that we could talk. There have been a number of supporting contributions, which I would like to thank not only the pro-government representatives but also the opposition representatives, but there have been many parts of these contributions which, I feel, have nothing to do with today's bill, go beyond that. Airbnb, rent, housing, all very important things, in the context of the budgetary debate, some opposition contributions could be made in the debate on the tax system. Here, the bill, which is before us, is about Eximbank and Kit Law, but let us have two ideas about small and medium-sized enterprises. Eximbank is successfully available from micro-enterprises to small and medium-sized enterprises and commercial banks with loans based on both euro and forints, with an interest rate of 0.1 per cent. I think that it will help these businesses in this epidemic, in this pandemic and in the period of economic downturn that has led to it. We don't have to take credit, we want to help. We want to help businesses that if export opportunities are opened... and we have a philosophical debate here, that it's exposure or openness, we say that it's an openness, a gift that we have to live with and help. Mr Volner's suggestion that there should also be export triggers and import triggers is not closely related to this bill that we would like to help. And yes, in the framework of investment policy, we want to help Eximbank to enter the real estate market and help those on the real estate market to invest in real estate across the border and to enter real estate funds. I urge my fellow Member, who has been involved in the development of real estate, that if he knows about abuse and corruption, please contact the appropriate law enforcement agencies, as this is the right thing to do. Accusing someone of corruption and abuse in advance, I think it is wrong and it is not moving the debate forward. [[12.20]] Congressman Varju spoke about the 18,000 small entrepreneurs. If Congressman Varju had carefully read through László Parragh's statement, he would also have read the sentence that the 18,000 entrepreneurs, who had turned to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, could not only have said their proposal, not only listened to it by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but forwarded it, and in the Economic Protection Action Plan a large part of their proposals were placed and incorporated into it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-05-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I would also like to respond to the speeches of our fellow opposition Members, although many are no longer here, so it will be difficult, but I would definitely like to say our position. First of all, it is a law which contains two amendments, the amendment of the Exim Act and the amendment of the Foreign Service Act. It was strange to hear that none of our opposition fellow Members talked about the legislation, but wandered about all kinds of real estate transactions, mentioned all kinds of names, and came up here; the walls of the Parliament were also mentioned by our fellow Member of the LMP, and also by Imre Steindl, the builders. So we have heard about everything but what this legislation is about. The first part is only about Exim being able to register shares/units in foreign and internal markets. No one has talked about the other legislation, and unfortunately the opposition is not interested in the fate of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian diplomats working in the foreign service, since this second amendment is about three days' extra leave for those over the age of 50. [[Car-Cake Olivio interrupts.]] Yes, I would respond that you mentioned this, and I would say that you mentioned that I was talking about it because it was your way of saying the joke, and that is typical of you to take it as such, because here, in relation to Eximbank, instead of talking about how successful the Hungarian economy is, how successful it has been in recent years thanks to the export strategy, they are not talking about it, but they are talking about everything about the opposition mantra, about the five accusations they keep saying, saying, not about the actual legislation, not about Eximbank. If you go up to Eximbank's website, you can see that there are thousands of transactions, hundreds of billions of forints of investment, investment and lay-down, use in Hungary, use in the Carpathian Basin, and foreign market use. So the Eximbank deals with a lot of things and effectively and successfully deals with them, Hungary has not broken all the records in vain, as far as exports are concerned, and the growth rate of the Hungarian economy symbolizes the extent to which it has improved in recent years because of the performance of the government, because of the work of the Hungarian economy and, above all, the work of the Hungarian people. If they had read this, they would have seen that Eximbank was not lending loans to two or three people, but was lending loans to thousands of Hungarian businesses, who were able to manage this loan effectively, to develop, create jobs and contribute to the better livelihood of Hungarian people. And then I would respond one by one to a few, as you have said, to a joke, because the debate of the entire bill was considered such a performance, and there was hardly any meaningful speech, perhaps Congressman Volner discussed a very interesting debate on economic theory, which was about what action should be taken on the basis of the restructuring of the internal economy in Hungary, about what imports could be triggered. I think that this is what the Hungarian economic policy has said in recent years: that Hungarian economic operators have received job-creating subsidies, either from Eximbank or from the State or from market players, which will enable them to produce products that had to be imported into Hungary earlier. As regards the structure of the Hungarian real estate market: I think that, if we look at the change in the last 30 years, Hungarian property has increased in the real estate sector as well as in the strategic sectors, and compared to what was here in the early 1990s or in the 2000s, there is now a significant proportion of Hungarian owners, whether in terms of office buildings or in terms of tourist properties or in terms of downtown real estate, because it has also been a long discussion of this, and there are unfortunately all kinds of individual transactions that have nothing to do with the legislation before us. This relates to the fact that our better fellow Member is accusing us of liberal economic policy here. I think that the Hungarian economic policy of the last few years has served precisely to increase Hungarian ownership in the Hungarian economy, and we have succeeded in doing this, whether we are thinking of the banking sector, and of course the result that you have been saying less recently, given your latest coalition partner, that before 2010, there was a government that destroyed Hungary, we were drivers in every respect, and we were able to emerge from this crisis thanks to the operation of the Orbán government that took office in 2010, and, among other things, a restructuring has been created in the Hungarian economy, thanks to which the proportion of Hungarian ownership has increased, we have taken back public works, as they have also been privatized; it is possible to talk about MOL, but we can talk about other strategic sectors, such as the banking sector. So, so much for our liberal economic policy. I have a very different opinion about this than you do. Previously, before 2010, this economy was dominated by foreigners, today there are several significant Hungarian economic operators in Hungarian economic life, and this is welcome. I'd like to quote a sentence, I don't know if he meant it. He said that 30 years ago, there was an alleged change of regime. I'm guessing that's not the Jobbik's official position that practically nothing happened in 1990. We are proud that we closed communism in 89-90. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We didn't close it.]] and, after all, a new democratic state set-up. It must have been a catchphrase, I've recorded... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It wasn't.]] I would, however, like to hear with interest that Jobbik is likely to change its position on this issue, as the position of Jobbik has changed significantly in recent years with regard to its coalition partners. Our MSZP fellow Member isn't here, he said we're gonna get a loan from the companies. I beg you, there's no such thing in this law, I've read it again. No one wants to borrow money from the companies, it's an opportunity for the companies. He also said there was no strategy. Yes, you do. Here is the Hungarian external economic strategy, the Hungarian export strategy, so there is a strategy, and in recent years Eximbank has also worked along it, and thanks to this it has achieved historic success. With regard to PPP, my fellow Member Nacsa has already responded and said our position. Unfortunately, László Varju is not here either. He said things about the government knowingly doing nothing. I would like to ask for patience, I would like to read some of the things that the government has done in relation to the protection of the virus: for example, the state takes over some of the labour costs in the case of shorter work; HUF 450 billion in investment support for job creation; promotion of priority sectors: tourism, health industry, food industry, agriculture, construction, logistics, transport, film and creative industry; interest and guaranteed loans to Hungarian businesses worth more than HUF 2000 billion; return of the 13th month pension; reduction of the loan, eviction, recovery and recovery moratorium to our better fellow Member: eviction, recovery moratorium -; interest ceiling; remission of contributions; protection of rental contracts; 2 percent reduction of the Socho; suspension of the tourism tax; 600 billion subsidies to tourism; reduction of the SZÉP card tax; EUR 2000 billion capital programme for companies; cut-out of the kata contribution; MNB supports the economy by 3000 billion. That is what my fellow Member Varju says, that we are consciously doing nothing, that is what he said, and that my better fellow Member has also made such a point, that the Hungarian government's actions are insufficient, and there has hardly been anything that has happened to alleviate the economic crisis over the past period. Well, if that's hardly enough; I could continue the line, I just don't want to abuse your time here, but it would be possible to continue a long list of the measures the government has taken. So unfortunately, this is how László Varju understands that the Hungarian government is consciously doing nothing in this difficult situation, although he also said that nothing good can be expected from us. I am sorry that you have such a bad opinion of us, and I hope that your opinion will change, that I have listed these and that you will know these measures. So to sum up: I regret that this legislation, which, in this sense, technically amends the Exim Act, allows Eximbank into a new area, or technical amendments to the Foreign Service Act, went in a completely different direction, and I was forced to respond to these accusations, because on the one hand, it is an economic measure, and on the other hand, the support of government officials representing the interests of Hungary in the foreign service, with three days' extra leave, which I think is in the interests of the Hungarian people. There was an accusation here that we represent the interests of real estate developers. No, ladies and gentlemen, we do not represent the interests of real estate developers and not of export credit financing; we represent the interests of the Hungarian people, and this legislation also represents the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2020-05-05-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I just have to respond to Pál Sigismund's speech; so what he said about me was not exactly true. So, on the one hand, I made it clear at the beginning of my speech that what is involved in the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service is something that we can support. I don't know which movies he was watching, but by the way, we got used to it when you were tasked with attacking Gergely Christmas in the municipal campaign, but he was able to perform only untruths here in the House. I'm asking you to ignore all this nonsense and listen more carefully to what I'm saying. However, I am glad that I have the opportunity to ask Mr State Secretary again who the companies or advocacy organisations were, on the one hand, and I do not know who they have consulted on this, who asked for this amendment, how this matter came up, it would be good to know. In fact, if there is no such criterion in the application, I do not know the Eximbank's own strategy, then what you expect, how many Hungarian jobs there may be, or what the objective is, how many Hungarian jobs will be created here in the next period with the help of this programme, this loan, this support. What are your plans, what do you expect, what do you want? At least you'd like to hear that. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát... [[For signal:]] Sorry, a two-minute speech has been submitted by Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-63	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologise to my fellow Member. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: There you go, don't joke.]] I would like to respond to the words that my colleague Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has made to me. I maintain that you said that the joke was shot, and I suppose you don't deny that, and you've been making this speech, and you might be able to find it in the record. So I resent that I said something stupid. This is how you view the debate in Parliament, that it is possible to make jokes here, and in vain, like your fellow Member, perform performances, where you walk around with cameras, where you walk around with papers. So I think, unfortunately, this is how you view this House, which we have heard about building in this debate, and also about its builder, so please do not accuse me of being stupid. As far as Mr. Mayor of Christmas is concerned, I think that what I said in the election campaign, what Fidesz or Lord Mayor Tarlos said, namely, we said that Gergely Christmas is unfit to lead the capital, unfortunately, has since proved. Unfortunately, we've been right, and it's really inappropriate. We've seen how he handles the crisis, what dramas it leads to. Thank God, Hungary has a leadership that handles the crisis well, and not leaders of the type such as Gergely Christmas, who build mistakes in the capital. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-65	Mr President, Dear House, I will try not to abuse Mr President's patience and only to respond to what has been said to the extent necessary. First of all, I would like to thank both Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member for joining us in this debate, even if we are sometimes separated by worlds and sometimes we are referred to as net nonsense by fellow Members. For example, they talk about Jobbik's coalition partners, while in life we were not in a coalition with anyone. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Alliance!]] But I'll leave it to your own conscience. From a representative of a party whose activities I respect as far as the pogrom in Targu Mures is concerned, and I try to grasp the points where mutual respect can develop, as a representative of a party that has come from the Liberal International through the Lisbon Treaty, where it is now, I would expect a little more restraint. After all, if there was a pair in every direction of the wind rose, it's called Fidesz, and we have a right to do so for the last 30 years. Celebrating the alleged change of regime would, in my view, be if there were a large crowd to celebrate. The thing is, there isn't. When the Minister released that certain spirit from the bottle, during the expo, he held a sort of victory report on a number of other issues, then do not be offended, as a grumpy young child, by my fellow members of the government, that opposition representatives will really use the framework of the general debate to respond much more widely to the same things that have been said. When, by the way, Minister, you are quite right to note that we are talking about 86,5 percent of GDP in terms of Hungarian exports and that, in his view, this is a characteristic of an open economy, which represents a range of opportunities, I must say that such an amazing exposure now reveals, in times of crisis, very serious dangers that need to be addressed. In the victory report, let me share one piece of data with you. If we look at Hungarian wages not strictly in HUF, but, let us say, in euro compared to those of the Visegrád countries, then we can see that Hungarian earnings, the average Hungarian salary, began to amount to just as much euro by 2015 as during the 2008 crisis in 2009. So the huge upswing you are talking about could not have happened either, because since 2015, the forint's exchange rate has deteriorated to such a brutal, dramatic extent that Hungarian salaries are actually, if not immeasurable, in the region, but of outstandingly low quality. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And their bills are paid in euro?]] It is quite amazing, and the victory report is said by those whose prime minister went to Saudi Arabia and tried to lure the working capital into Hungary with two arguments. He tried to seduce him with two arguments, one of which is that the labour code is sufficiently flexible and the other is that Hungarian wages are sufficiently low. My fellow Member Nacsa, although not at the push of a button, struck my ear as to what he shouted at me, so let me respond. No, the Hungarian people receive their salary not in euro [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bills.]] But if my fellow Member Nacsa or I go into the supermarket and buy, say, a bunch of bananas or buy a pack of packed salads and we find only one, because in a lot of networks, we find something that wasn't produced in Hungary, or my fellow Member buys his iPhone that he's pressing right now. [[Nacsa Lőrinc shows up his phone.]] , then, because of the low forint rate of cattle, iPhone, Samsung or any smartphone is 30-40 thousand forints more expensive than it would be at a normal forint price. You also tolerate weak forint rates as a kind of tax for the poor, as all imported products are subject to the consequences and effects of a weak forint exchange rate. So it's quite amazing that they're producing victory reports from an economy whose exposure is terrible. Well, the weak forint exchange rate kills the Hungarian families and ordinary people's budgets, as they are burdened with unjustified costs every month. Now finally, the central bank, when it seemed to be very big trouble, has intervened in a narrow circle, and I welcome that. When I called it neoliberal because I called the government's economic policy what you are doing, I told you why, so pay attention: they favor narrow, lucky social groups, and they expect these benefits to come down to all the others. The same is true of the CSOK, where the aid volume is reached at maximum and up to millions of times: for those who can buy a residential property, build a family house. And from the person who, say, with LPT, with the support of the state, has collected the CSOK's share, you have taken away the state support of the LTP. Dismiss me, my fellow Member, if you do not. You plowed this state aid leg, said it wasn't effective. What did they give the Hungarian people instead? [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: CHOK...!]] Nothing! Well, how do you save the rest of the money if there's state support for what you've been holding in Fundament, and now you're not? Then my fellow Member does not understand the mechanism of operation of the CSOK. The CSOK can provide a preferential loan weight and a subsidy volume. To whom does the support mass, where appropriate, 10 million, be provided? The lucky, wealthy man who can build a home of his own. Those who do not, and let's say want to get out of sublet or buy their first home in installments, do not make such a volume of support available, and the scope of CSOK users shows this, as well as the rejection of many families by intermediary commercial banks because they did not earn, say, 350 thousand net monthly, and they did not prove creditworthy in this respect, even though they were able to provide the Hungarian average payment certificate. That is why we said that we needed a rent-apartment programme, that we needed opportunities for all social groups. Once again, I am very pleased that we can produce such a spin in terms of export volume, but today, not even a single government potenta has stood up and said that the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise segment can absorb in terms of a breakdown, such as, compared to ten years ago, the high degree of connection in the production value chain. After all, it would be in our interest, of course, to have multi-companies here, but, if possible, not just to be a part of the line, but, yes, quite rightly said, to be engineers and developers in this production chain and at the highest possible level. [[12.40]] Really, let us not abuse the framework of the general debate, and let us specifically talk about the opportunities that this proposal is now opening up with regard to Eximbank. Don't be offended that we're not always in good faith. We have ten years of experience behind us. I have mentioned a specific example from my constituency, and yes, Mr Secretary of State, you do see that if I am aware of any act, not only of corruption, but of net corruption mechanisms, facts, then I have no opportunity, I have an obligation to report it. But it is quite obvious and evident that these practices are not played in front of the passers-by in Óbuda and not in front of a single MP in Óbuda, but in the dark rooms and offices where, by the way, they have been in the last 30 years. That's what my system review was about. For the last 30 years, every government has had its lucky oligarchs, and it has never once worked in a completely transparent way. When an ordered change ban is lifted to allow someone to build a residential park and then re-order it, I do not believe that the opposition representative's activities depend on the investigation of corruption mechanisms. We should build a system, by the way, together, where that can't happen. But don't try to put government responsibility on me or anyone else for this. Not just in front of the historic court, but in every sense, the people who were committed under his regency will answer. But I'm very confident that this whole system will be purified and purified in the coming years. With regard to the victory report, I have two more corrections to make. On the one hand, the economic rescue package of 19-20 per cent of GDP has been repeatedly mentioned, which is not exactly true. So my request is that you stop forging and distorting numbers. On the one hand, 19-20 percent of GDP is not true even in three years, because you talk about three years of separate money, you add it up and you name it that big part of GDP. On the other hand, the eligible loans were included in the subsidy volume, which may not be so correct. In this way, if we add this whole thing together and calculate what an average Hungarian worker can achieve in terms of compensation for wages, we can see that only 10-20 percent of the lost wage can be assumed to make up for this system. Indeed, we also need to see that the concept of the Hungarian Fund for the Protection of Jobs, which would make up 80 percent for those who have already taken away their jobs or lost their jobs, is very far from it. This government sends no message, my fellow Member, to those who have already lost their jobs. More specifically, Secretary of State Novák said that anyone who wants to can find a job and that obviously public works or military careers will be offered to former engineers or logistics professionals. This is not the market economy, please. The market economy works differently, and I would insist on it, but if it's a market economy, there would be a social net. In connection with the victory reports and evictions, my fellow Member has called for me to be pleased that there is an eviction moratorium. I'm glad you don't think I'm a back-up fan, not at all, or even the idea came from us, appearing on Jobbik's central page. Luckily, they did it. Take over, put your own logo on it, and I'll vote for any such thing if it makes sense. But don't be so proud. You have given your name to more than 10,000 evictions in Hungary since 2010. [[To Dr. Sigismund Brown Paul:]] Did it happen, or didn't it? Have you evicted so many people or not, fellow Member? So many people have been evicted in Hungary, and you have allowed the eviction without accommodation. My fellow Members and I were there personally at dozens of such events, trying to bring them into the balance of legality with the mere presence and by allowing social media to be broadcast. See, many of these events turned out to be completely illegal. I'm going to ask you to tell me the results, of course, but don't be too proud in the middle of a social, social disaster. To make one more recommendation in order to avoid excessive pride, you will already have the problem that the bans on executives in Hungary now, even at this moment, when you have declared a moratorium, make the lives of tens of thousands impossible. What happened? A lot of people don't get paid or paid less, but your moratorium doesn't apply to 33 percent or 50 percent of the bans on executives. So in addition to the lower income, the enforcement ban is also combined, and, let's just say, you have to pay rent. This makes the fate of many families impossible. By the way, the rapporteur and Minister Szijjártó, who held the exhibition, have shown absolute openness in the investigation of the abuse of executives. I don't know what's happened in the last few weeks, but in good faith, I assume that a task force in your ministry is already working on this. But before you put victory reports on the table here and, say, praise the moratorium, eliminate the practice that executives can ban the smallest pensions and the lowest salaries now, I don't care what kind of flow chart ends. This must not happen in the middle of an epidemiological crisis. We have put this proposal on the table: no one's income should be blocked by executives for a minimum living, by 33 percent or 50 percent. On the above side, you can argue until sunrise, but do not allow a social and social cataclysm to unfold. If these minimum steps are taken, I believe that fair and professional discussions can be held on these victory reports, not until then. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-05-05-66	Dear Parliament, I hope that we will no longer open the framework for the general debate in future speeches. I didn't mean to interrupt, but we've gone very far. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Thank you.]] For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group of Dialogues.
u2020-05-05-67	Thank you for the floor. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond distorts and falsifies my words. He wasn't listening, and then he's saying things that aren't real. So I didn't mention the people working at foreign representations in any context with the joke. You can look back at the report. In this context, I didn't talk about any jokes. What I said about the joke that my fellow Member Antal Csárdi mentioned was that, yes, the Eximbank, for example, supported Andy Vajna when he bought TV2, by the way, from Simicska, which you then made Fidesz propaganda TV. If you think it's okay for Eximbank to buy you TV, then you're right, it's not a good joke. By the way, back to the inadequacy of Gergely Christmas, what you mentioned in the campaign, I can only come up with one fidesz quote: the voters have decided how true what you said was. Not at all!
u2020-05-05-68	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-05-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to my fellow Member, Mr Barna, for reading in detail what the Hungarian Government did for the Hungarian people during the epidemic crisis and for helping Hungarian people and businesses. We've gone a long way from this bill. But I hope that if we have said a lot of inappropriate things in the debate, from eviction through enforcement to import removal, we will have a lot of relief, then the text of the bill remains, and if my fellow Members, opposition representatives, read this carefully, they will be able to support it. Just one thought: Mr Kárpát Z once again raised the question of multi-k-small entrepreneurs. Only one figure: In 2012, Eximbank supported 200 small and medium-sized enterprises, 1600 small and medium-sized enterprises in 2019, and 90 percent of 1600 were small and medium-sized enterprises. So we can't just charge Eximbank with supporting multinationals. But I think that the facts in the bill will help Eximbank access to the market, access to the real estate market, support for investment policy, and I call on my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-05-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for support from the parliamentary group until closure. [[Dr. Andrea Z. Carpathian consults with Dániel Varga-Damm.]] Congresswoman, do you mind? Thank you. Presentation by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; László Böröcz, Fidesz; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Péter Harrach, KDNP, Members T/10307. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.50]]
u2020-05-05-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic has put many countries in the world, including our country, before a very sudden and unexpected situation. Obviously, it was up to the country's speed of response to how we could get ahead of it, how we could deal with this crisis. Hungary and the Hungarian government responded relatively quickly, and the government declared an emergency on 11 March in order to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens. On 30 March, the Parliament authorised the Government to take extraordinary measures to protect the health, life and stability of the people, our citizens and our economy. Thanks to the rapid measures in this area, it appears from the figures that Hungary has successfully defended itself against the spread of the coronal virus epidemic and has successfully defended itself in order to prevent related problems. However, it is not only a health problem, it is obviously also an economic one, because the epidemic has caused an economic crisis not only in Hungary but also in many states of Europe. Therefore, the government has established a protection fund for an epidemic in which various actors had to pay their contributions. Such were the banks, such were the multinational trade chains, such were the municipalities, and, of course, such were the parties, which we consider to be particularly important, because the deposit of the parties, which, by the way, contributes more than a billion forints to the protection against the epidemic, is an example, since the Hungarian people increase public confidence in the parties and politics. However, it should also be mentioned that the current legislation allows the parties to support their own faction, but under current legislation, there is no possibility that the factions, parliamentary factions, can support their own parties in such an extraordinary situation. Therefore, taking into account, in addition, that the parliamentary parties, the Hungarian parliamentary parties, are also active in society, because, for example, many of our activists and political activists are helping to combat the epidemic, for example, in the care of the elderly, my fellow Members thought that this situation should be dealt with temporarily. Therefore, our proposal, the proposed bill, would give parliamentary groups the opportunity to provide support to their own parties only at the expense of their savings by 31 December 2020. Obviously, this date would have been included or repealed by the law on 1 January, as this year's withdrawal from the budget of the parties and hopefully this year will only be a crisis, so it is proposed that by 31 December this possibility would be abolished for the parties. The faction leaders of the parties will be able to decide to support and assist the parties in their savings, and thus obviously also the party's involvement in society. I think it's a fair proposal, an acceptable proposal. I would like to ask all my fellow Members to support their adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Government has indicated that it does not wish to present a position in the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-73	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For more than 50 days now, the Hungarian government has declared an emergency. In the last 50 days, a number of measures have been taken to ensure that the epidemic curve is flattened, on the one hand, and that the economic sectors affected by the epidemic and the people working there on the other. Our lives have been completely transformed. And disease control affects almost all of our activities. The government declared that the primary objective was to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, and that was why restrictive measures had to be imposed. The Hungarian government has always kept the safety of Hungarian people in mind, but at the same time it is trying to prevent the shrinking of the Hungarian economy and minimize any decline. The 12th of 2020 on the control of the corona virus adopted by the National Assembly on 30 March 2020 In order to guarantee the legal certainty and stability of life, health, personal, property and property of citizens in an emergency, the Government has extended the scope of an emergency decree until the end of the emergency and has authorised the Government to suspend, derogate from legal provisions and take other exceptional measures in order to guarantee the stability of the national economy. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian Democrats expressly endorse the government's measures, including the fact that the government involved the parties in the joint burden-sharing in their defence against the Crown Virus and took half of all parties' state support. In this context, the bill proposes that Parliament allow parliamentary factions to transfer funds to their party only on the basis of savings this year. In particular, this means that parties do not use any additional budgetary resources, but can only transfer their savings within a party. The proposal is therefore essentially a technical amendment. The proposal provides for the possibility for parliamentary groups to resign from a specific part of their operating conditions and to offer it to their party on the national list in the form of grants. By 31 December 2020, the aid may be granted by means of an instrument of support on the basis of an individual decision. The head of the parliamentary group shall have the exclusive right to decide on this assistance. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Christian Democrats support T/10307 on support from the parliamentary group. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Imre Vejkey, Péter Harrach from KDNP, my fellow Members, Máté Kocsis and László Böröcz, presented the T/10307 to this House on behalf of Fidesz. The Parliamentary Group has received a legislative proposal entitled 'allowing support', which allows parties to accept, in addition to the existing legislation, membership fees, state budget support, various donations, contributions, the legacy of individuals, and, in addition to the results of the party's economic activities, the support provided by the parliamentary group of the Party against the allocation of budgetary expenditure for the operating conditions of the parliamentary group, if they have obtained a mandate on the national list and the head of the parliamentary group takes a decision on this. In recent years, at the beginning of April, the Hungarian Government has established three defence bases, as announced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. One of them is the protection fund for the epidemic, which started with a HUF 663 billion framework, to which the financial sector transferred, the required contribution from the banks, budget transfers were carried out for the retail tax on multinational chains, transfers from municipalities, car taxes directed to the central budget, and coverage of earlier wage increases for health workers and women, among other things, with 50 percent of the parties' support being transferred here. This fund is complemented by another fund, the Economic Protection Fund, which started with HUF 1345 billion, and the Fund for Anti-CDC Grants from the European Union, where until April it was actually zero forints, because the EU did not give us a penny for the defences. [[13.00]] I think it is very important to watch Europe and the world, that every country is looking for its own way of dealing with the situation caused by the virus epidemic from a health and economic point of view. And I also consider it very important and we believe that everyone must take part in the fight against the epidemic. Political parties cannot be excluded from this. Everyone has a responsibility, and we share the view that in the context of the protection against the coronal virus, parties should also be involved in sharing the burden. This proposal allows factions this year to transfer their savings to their party. And I have to say that this proposal fits exactly in with the system that we think we are in the current situation, that we need the widest cooperation, and because of the measures against the coronal virus epidemic in Hungarian society and in political life, this is the way that can lead to a solution in this time of distress. The proposal is supported and proposed for adoption of each political factor here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We all know the proposal. A political decision has been made in this respect, and, as my fellow Member has said, this applies to everyone, that everyone must take part in the defence. We agree perfectly with that, and if there are restrictions, withdrawals, they must also affect the parties. We also agree that this is also an example, which must, of course, be accepted. So we really don't have a negative opinion on this. We also agree that it is actually a technical amendment that has now been brought before the Parliament. I do not wish to make excuses in this regard. At the same time, however, I must respond to the situation that has already been expressed here in Hungary by some of my pro-government colleagues regarding the crisis management of the government or the management of the epidemiological situation. Let us make it clear that this withdrawal, as my fellow Member mentioned, amounts to slightly more than HUF 1 billion, namely HUF 1.2 billion. So it's actually a very small part, really a symbolic, exemplary gesture. So the problem is not that the parties have been reduced in this way, but the problem is, as you mentioned, my fellow Member, that the municipalities have also been severely restricted by the Orbán government. We know that in this situation, municipalities are the number one bastion of defense. We also agree perfectly that the most important task now is to protect health, to protect human life, and to increase the effectiveness of protection. I think that they cannot and do not want to argue with my fellow Members about the priority and important role that municipalities play in this. And we also know that my fellow Member Csaba Nagy knows particularly well, as a representative of a small rural constituency, how difficult the epidemic situation has been, even before the economic crisis. And we also know from a survey of a local government association that, due to restrictions on local governments, two thirds of small settlements are practically on the verge of falling in, and they will not be able to carry out a lot of voluntary and mandatory tasks, namely liquidity problems due to withdrawal. We know, although I do not wish to open this debate now, that there are hundreds of billions that could be transferred in the budget that would have made restrictions on municipalities unnecessary. It is also very sad to see that, on the basis of the latest news, they would extend the withdrawal to universities. We know that billions of forints are about to be taken away from universities, for example, I understand that they wish to withdraw more than 3.5 billion from the University of Pécs. You are talking about protecting jobs and restoring the economy, protecting the economy. I do not think that I need to mention in particular that such withdrawal in the case of a rural university will result in the loss of many jobs, and in this form it will in fact be impossible for the university to continue to operate. I think that we should talk more about these issues than about the financing of parties or the situation of parties. It is also a problem, fellow Members, that we see that on the other side we have started spending that the government should not start now. A poster campaign has been launched, a propaganda campaign, in this way trying to convince people through billboards that you and your government are dealing effectively with this epidemiological situation. I think that's the problem. So it is possible to agree with austerity and withdrawal, but in the case of municipalities and other institutions providing very important public services, it is not possible to agree. And the problem is that the funds gathered in this way are spent on billions of propaganda campaigns, party campaigns, government campaigns. It's definitely not acceptable, and that's a problem. Overall, I therefore think, fellow Members, that this is indeed a technical amendment, and I do not think that there will be a sharp debate on this. At the same time, let it be clear and I hope that there is agreement here that this is not the important problem, that we should not talk about this, but that we should talk about how we can give help to local authorities so that they can carry out their tasks in this extremely difficult situation. And how more resources could be allocated to this Economic Protection Fund, and we have put forward a lot of proposals for it. I do not wish to list them now, because this proposal is not being debated. At the same time, I would like to indicate a magnitude. The government intends to spend 200-300 billion forints to protect jobs, thus the wage supplement, while at the same time we have the project of developing the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which will cost nearly a thousand billion forints overall. We believe that these inexplicable investments should be stopped immediately, and these huge sums should be transferred to protect Hungarian jobs, and that they should be used to support people and families who are already in a very difficult situation and who have lost their livelihood. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm glad we're back on the agenda in the last sentences. The representative of the government is not present, so the general debate in this area cannot be held again. I would like to inform my fellow Members that there is now room for two-minute and normal speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I ask who, on behalf of the authors, would like to answer. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey reporting.]] Congressman Imre Vejkey, you have the floor.
u2020-05-05-79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz, KDNP and LMP speech was given in the lead speech round. I considered the comments on the bill to be supportive. Thank you for that, and I hope that this will also be supported in plenary. Have a nice day.
u2020-05-05-80	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Thank you to the rapporteurs, thank you to my fellow Members for their active involvement on the agenda. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields and the settlement of property registration data by land holders until closure. Government referral T/10312. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-05-05-81	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10312 on the liquidation of undivided common property in the fields before you and the real estate registration of land holders The main aim of the bill is the establishment of a clean, transparent land ownership structure and the effective elimination of undivided land ownership, which is one of the biggest obstacles to this. The bill is another important step in a process that has been going on since 2010. From 2010 onwards, the government has consistently seen domestic land regulation as a fundamental issue of national strategic importance. In this way, the independent National Land Fund Management Organisation was set up on 1 September 2010 and has now served the interests of the Hungarian economy as a National Earth Management Centre through its expanding functions. [[13.10]] With the conscious and efficient management of national land assets, thousands of farmers came to state land as owners or tenants. In parallel to the above, in 2013 laws were created that fundamentally re-regulate land traffic, which, by introducing a number of guarantee instruments, facilitate the land grabbing of persons and organizations who are actually ready and able to farm, the land being mainly owned and used by farmers who live locally, and the elimination of internal and foreign speculators. However, there are still some obstacles to land policy that are a barrier to the competitiveness of agriculture and have been unsolved for several decades before the agricultural government. This statement, from the farmer's point of view, means that the use of certain land is absolutely impossible. Unfortunately, I am not able to provide an example where, at present, the number of owners on relatively small-scale real estate can exceed hundreds, even thousands in extreme cases. Those who live off the earth know that such a ownership structure, which has existed and inherited since the regime change, is almost impossible to provide for the use or ownership of the land. I am convinced that the unity of professional policy will help us to eliminate this phenomenon that is detrimental to everyone. With regard to the development of a clean, transparent land ownership structure, it is therefore of great importance to develop an effective solution to the elimination of undivided common property on land as a coercive community, which is the subject of this bill. As I referred to earlier, data at the end of 2019 indicate that there are about 1 million 60,000 land units in Hungary which are undivided in common ownership. The intention of the partners to be released from this form of property is well reflected in the fact that the project aimed at eliminating the undivided common ownership generated by the share land expenditure, commonly known as the so-called OKTM project, submitted by 1 June 2012 to the real estate authorities an application for the elimination of 250 thousand undivided joint ownership, which concerned 53 500 parts of land. Of these, some 43 thousand plots of land have been divided, of which 35 thousand have already been completed, resulting in the release of the land to some 170,000 owners. The project will be carried out on the basis of applications submitted by 1 June 2012 according to a pre-defined timetable and may be completed by the end of 2023 if the necessary budgetary resources are available. The OKTM project, in itself, operates as a replacement procedure, as the problem has been known since the change of regime, but the Hungarian State remained in debt by settling it. It is important to point out that the current OKTM project aimed only at a specific range of undivided common property, namely the elimination of undivided common property generated by the release of shares, so it does not cover properties affected by undivided common property on other items, but the experience gained here is a sure support for the professional preparation of the law currently under discussion. The current OKTM project does not include forest areas, and therefore the need to eliminate the undivided common property for forests has become even more pronounced. The current OKTM project is entirely an official procedure in which we have made farmers interested in establishing the final ownership structure with an agreement rather than a draw sometimes causing further conflicts. Overall, the current OKTM project has, in many respects, helped to eliminate undivided common ownership in the fields. However, the disadvantage of this procedure is that it proves to be rather lengthy and only partially resolves the problem of undivided common land ownership, since the possibility of sharing does not extend to all undivided common land and the forced community remains in the case of residual estates, while a closed system for applicants is not possible to submit a new application after the expiry of the legal deadline. The owners of real estate not covered by the OKTM project or the share land owners who missed the deadline of 1 June 2012 may currently use only the possibilities available under the general rules of civil law for the elimination of undivided common property on their land, but this is, let's face it, an almost impossible procedure for a cumbersome and large number of stakeholders. According to this, the termination of the community of property is necessary for the unanimous agreement of the parties, in the absence of this, the joint ownership may be terminated by the court. In order to share the property in kind, the legal provisions on land formation should apply accordingly. It is therefore clear from the above that, in order to establish a transparent land ownership structure, it is necessary to continue the measures aimed at eliminating undivided common ownership, but it is essential to re-establish the procedure for eliminating undivided common ownership. Allow me to briefly demonstrate the new elements of the bill that will help to effectively eliminate undivided common land. In general, the aim of the bill is to support the agreement of the parties in all cases, to transform ownership into a maximum number of independent real estates, and to encourage the further acquisition of real land users and to develop property bodies that can be used well in the context of a much shorter and simpler current process. It is generally accepted in professional circles that real estate created through clarified ownership is of greater value in itself. I could even say that farmers get to land of greater value by doing nothing physically, but in a legal sense, much changes. I would stress in particular that, under the new rules, we are opening up the possibility for all landowners, because the options in our proposal will be provided not only for land that has been produced through share issuance, but also for all land that is covered by undivided common ownership. It is also a significant step forward to extend the proposal and the procedure to include forest property. The primary form of elimination of undivided joint ownership remains the division of the property and thus the conversion of individual ownership shares into separate immovable property. Sharing is based solely on the agreement of the partners, no draw will be made. However, the bill also takes into account the fact that it is impossible to establish a consistent agreement between all owners of the property in a significant part of the case. This is because, on the one hand, a large number of owners who are not clearly identifiable or who are likely to die on the basis of their birth data are listed in the real estate register, but the legacy procedure has not been carried out for any reason. The number of partners residing abroad is also significant. In addition, it is necessary to take into account partners who do not show sufficient concern for the land they own and, with this attitude, hinder the unanimous agreement. At the same time, the relevant legislation currently allows for a number of majority decisions on ownership or limiting each other to be taken by different ownership communities, such as members of condominiums or legal entities. As I said, we had to find a solution to ensure that the existence of a large number of unattainable ownership structures would not hinder the use of land. [[13.20]] The bill therefore provides that a simple majority of the owners, i.e. 50 per cent plus one person, are sufficient to reach the agreement. However, in addition to this provision, a number of important requirements will also be included to protect the interests of partners in minorities. All ownership partners shall be duly informed of the start of the division process and the details of the properties concerned shall be included on the government portal. The distribution shall be carried out solely for the development of normal agricultural and forestry properties. It is also possible to create a joint-owned property in the sharing process if some partners, such as spouses, wish to do so, but no one can enter a joint-owned property against their will. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the division process, the bill introduces a 90-day change ban, during which no change in the property ownership account, except for expropriation, can be made, neither in the real estate data nor in the property rights and facts. This period shall start at the initiative of the partners in the real estate register of the fact of the ongoing division. If the 90-day period fails, no further change ban shall be initiated within 30 days after that in order to exclude any abuse. In addition to the renewal of the legal solution, an XXI. We've given you a century-old answer to the IT questions that have been raised. With the help of an IT program to be developed specifically for this purpose, a so-called dealer program, the partners prepare the map plan to display the agreed sharing map with the help of a lawyer of their choice. This dealer program will have access to the current map and ownership data of the real estate register. The real estate registration of the division therefore does not require a change plan drawn up by a surveyor and endorsed by the authority, because the map plan made using the dealer program will be suitable for this in itself. This solution is a very important step, because with this new technical solution, we save billions of forints and save them for the benefit of the Hungarian state. The priority objective of the agricultural government is to prevent fragmentation, and it remains essential to establish a minimum area for new properties. It is equally important that the new procedure now discussed does not lead to further small, useless estates. Thus, contrary to the current OKTM procedures, ownership shares below the territorial minimum, i.e. which cannot be converted into a separate property, do not remain in common ownership on the basis of the bill; one of the owners will be obliged to redeem them and to pay at least the consideration corresponding to the value of the property. Owners of ownership shares below the territorial minimum will thus receive real compensation instead of creating areas of non-viable size or ownership structure. The bill also provides for the possibility of real estate restructuring, on the one hand, by agreeing on a division other than the share of the original ownership. Thus, in practice, there may also be land grabbing among fellow owners. In addition, the same partners may agree, when sharing a number of properties belonging to the administrative area of the same or neighbouring settlements, that the ownership shares of each partner in several properties are assigned to one property. In addition to sharing, the bill provides a second solution to the elimination of undivided joint ownership. This is because there are properties for which sharing is out of the question, as the land section alone does not reach the minimum area of the bill. For these real estates, the only option to terminate the undivided common property is that the property is wholly owned by one of the owners, at least for consideration corresponding to the value of the property as measured by the value of the property. As you can see, the bill provides the opportunity to acquire land between partners in order to eliminate undivided common property as effectively as possible. The acquisition of property in these cases will not require the quality of a farmer. However, in order to avoid abuse, the provision that the right to acquire property will be granted only to the owner who has owned the property for at least three years or who has acquired his ownership through inheritance. There is no pre-emptive right in this acquisition, so third parties who are not partners in the original undivided joint-owned plot of land cannot enter into the legal transaction. The bill also includes a third option for the elimination of undivided joint ownership for real estate which, on the basis of their size, would be capable of sharing, but, above all, even the creation of a simple majority of owners is not feasible, given the large number of owners. Where, therefore, neither the ownership agreement nor the cash redemption by the owner's partner is possible, the ultimate solution to the abolition of the undivided joint ownership may be that these properties are acquired by the Hungarian State on the initiative of a partner owner in the event of failure to share. Partners receive adequate financial compensation for their ownership, and the Hungarian State can ensure the proper exploitation of the state-owned property which is now exclusively owned by the State. For the purposes of the above, it is necessary that the National Centre for Earth Affairs, acting on behalf of the Hungarian State, should have the right to expropriate in certain cases for reasons of public interest. Many have faced the situation that many of the owners on the property sheet are either unattainable or suspected to be no longer alive, and the legal fate of the property has not been settled in a legacy procedure. This uncertain ownership situation is not only the elimination of undivided joint ownership, but also a major difficulty in the proper exploitation of real estate. For this reason, the bill attempts to identify those persons registered in the real estate register whose data in the real estate register are incomplete in terms of land ownership by introducing a new procedure. In the framework of the procedure, the bill provides for mandatory data disclosure, data reconciliation and, in the event of its success, for the real estate authority. If the owner cannot be identified on the basis of the data-finding procedures, the real estate authority shall, of its own motion, determine that the property's property situation is unsettled. As above, mandatory data detection and data reconciliation should also be carried out if more than 120 years have elapsed from the year of birth of the person registered in the real estate register and no credible data are available on the date of death of that person. If, as a result of the disclosure, the death of the person registered as the owner is officially known to the real estate authority, the notary shall be notified to the notary with a view to initiating the probate procedure or the replacement inheritance procedure. If the fact of death of the registered person has not become known in any way, the real estate authority shall, of its own motion, determine that the property is in an irregular position. In both cases, unsettled property is owned by the State by law. With this procedure, the bill provides the opportunity to address uncertain ownership situations which hinder the exploitation of land and weaken the principle of the completeness of the real estate register. [[13.30]] On this basis, my fellow Members, I believe that the legislative proposals provide for the possibility that the legal fate of some 2.4 million hectares of land affected by undivided common property can be resolved in accordance with uniform principles, in the context of much cheaper and faster procedures than at present, with the minimum involvement of the state. It is equally important that we offer reassuring, fair and rapid solutions for the development of land ownership for the three and a half million of our countrymen affected by undivided common land ownership. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss, discuss and then adopt the bill on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-05-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure everyone here will agree that there is a great debt the government, the Agricultural Ministry, wants to solve and replace when it proposes to disband undivided common property. Towards the end of 1993, at the beginning of 94, under the Antall-Boross government, this process could start under the authority of law, speeding up the privatisation process at that time, and then the Horn government accelerated and implemented the system of undivided commons in a larger area than expected. The basic situation was, of course, enhanced by the system of undivided commons for heirs due to inheritance and death. This is how it is now known that 2.4 million hectares and 3.5 million owners are, for some reason, involved in the system of undivided common land ownership. All along, the law gave the parties the opportunity to initiate the joint elimination of the undivided, but this was also an extremely bureaucratic obstacle for them, and in particular it was difficult if one of the undivided joint owners resisted the idea, taking advantage of the legal possibilities of that period for appeal, not for writing, inability to find, for not taking over documents, and for any other form of conduct that made this will impossible for members to strengthen the intention of dispersal. The government has already started in 2010-11 to start, at least in the framework of sample programmes, the elimination of undivided common property in each district of each county. In short, this is the so-called OKTM programme, which has also been discussed in detail by the Minister. The state of this is very important, since it takes place under an administrative procedure. Here, all existing legislation that can use property-related elements, appeals and all other, as well as the scope of the authority at all, identification of the location, the agreement, disagreement, displacement and common agreement of the owners, and, if this is not the case, ultimately, the lottery, all this has been difficult. However, it seems that there is such a great intention of undivided joint dispersal that, even in these difficult circumstances, in which OKTM was forced to operate, more than 170 thousand owners have now reached their registered cornered property until today, who have gone through this very difficult process, and have measured their property. Yeah, this OKTM program doesn't cover the forest. This was also a very big debate within the house, in general, that the cultivation of forests, which we like to see in a unified structure, was an injury to the cultivation of forests, if the undivided division and transfer of forests can occur. The clear position under this law is that no, the single forest law and all other laws guarantee that, with the owner now knowing which part is his, the cultivation of forests and the protection of nature cannot be harmed. I mentioned, of course, that the main drawback of this OKTM programme was that it was lengthy. The current laws make the execution of intent very complicated. It didn't cover all the properties, like I said, the forests, it didn't clean up what would happen to the remaining properties within the undivided community. This is also proposed in the proposal. In addition, forced communities were established in the framework of the OKTM programme. These dispersal factors have also hindered the current programme, since the programme, the current draft law, also deals specifically with the fact that in many cases the person and address cannot be identified in the case of a ownership document. In many cases the legacy procedure is not completed, in many cases the owner is a foreigner, in many cases the registered owner is dead, and there are living owners who simply do not care what the majority wants to do, because of their share, because of the smallness of their ownership. With this sloppy attitude, the majority, the partners involved in farming, prevented property from being distributed, and it should be clear to everyone which land he could farm on. We can safely say that one of the barriers to the development of Hungarian agriculture is now, quite certainly, this large scale system of undivided commons, which I have just mentioned, affected 2.4 million hectares. Think of who would dare to invest in such an area in the longer term, take out loans, and even list the economic development steps from which the owner's undivided common ownership system itself discourages the owner. Here comes the proposal that says that 50 per cent plus 1 ownership ratio should be sufficient to start the undivided joint division; let's notify all the owners concerned. Let it be a compelling, inspiring force that it will be good to participate in this agreement and negotiation, because 50 percent plus 1 can decide the whole process and perhaps also which continent will belong to and where the remaining continents will be assigned to those who do not participate in the process, and perhaps not to the part of the land that he will eventually receive. So the law is inspiring that those who have been reluctant to do so have shown a sloppy attitude, please take part, because they can do worse if they do not participate. This is clear, because the process says that there will be a so-called dealership program that will show the whole of the property indicated and that virtually the partners who initiated it can begin to share the physical area with legal aid and supervision. Here comes the 90-day change notification ban and all other protective measures, of course. But the process is now in the hands of 50 percent plus 1 owner, and it is clear that it is worth participating in the following process. Of course, the draft law also discusses what is going on with those who still do not care, and their area is so small that they should no longer continue farming: in the case of grapes and fruit, the fields under 3 thousand square meters, and the areas under 1 hectare in the meadow. In such a case, the bill inspires them to use the possibility of selling, transferring property among themselves within the area to be divided, and perhaps to get rid of this area with a very small ownership. [[13.40]] And if there is no agreement, then the idea is that the majority of the owners, who do want to cultivate the area and probably initiated the dispersal, can bring smaller areas to themselves, and it is obvious that at a price determined by means of an valuation, this must be paid to the owner with the small land concerned. And, of course, there may be extreme cases where there is no agreement in any way, not only because it is a predicated area that should not be passed on at that time, it might be good to have an owner in the area, but there may be such a thing as neither the ownership agreement nor the cash redemption by the owner's partner has come to a conclusion, nor has it come to a conclusion with this technique. There is no fairy tale here, then the state must own this area with the aforementioned redemption, and the state will settle its fate. It is obvious that it will offer to farmers living in the vicinity of the settlement, since the main goal is not to leave an unmanaged area. Do not remain an uncertain area that we know does not require land-based support from its owner, but it is used by someone because they know that the owner does not otherwise deal with this area, so I can use it, and unsolved and undiscovered user relationships develop in this area. That can't be anyone's goal. It is obvious that this bill will also settle this. [[In the notary seat, Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.]] It is an exciting area to allow the draft law within the area to change the ownership ratios of the time, in agreement with each other. That is, someone sells it, someone buys it; it happens inside the house, within the space to be divided. But here come the restrictive measures, which Minister has also indicated, that such an in-house change of ownership can only happen if he has owned property there for at least three years. And here's an acquittal that you don't have to be a farmer for someone who might decide to acquire property by inheritance or by any means, but you're going to get bigger property. There is no question that, with this exemption, the legislator intends to introduce a will to facilitate the joint elimination of the undivided. I think that, among the attempts to disperse undivided common land, this is one of the most effective methods that we know can be put in place at all, in the light of the law affecting many owners. I hope that this will be a revised version, and then, after its entry into force, it will be confirmed through many, many applicants that yes, this programme was worth launching, and this awesomely large number of 3.5 million affected owners, 2.4 million hectares of seizure, will decrease in large numbers. The King of kings and Lord of lords.......thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-84	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Fellow Members! I may not reveal a great secret that it was not easy, after all, to process this legislation in such a way that it would be appropriate for as many stakeholders as possible to take into account the outcome. But this is not surprising, for it is indeed a very complex problem, the solution of which would indeed be very timely. I've just been going through a quick search: since 2010 Jobbik has been demanding that this issue be resolved in Parliament, about 70 speeches, motions have been made either here in Parliament or at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which we have initiated in order to resolve this situation. But reading the legislation, I must say that this law was a waste to wait so long, so there are a number of paragraphs here that we do not think are calling for the cleanest solution. In fact, in many ways, it is more like the legislation of division 67, when citizens forced into the theater had to voluntarily give up their ownership. I wrote to myself here first that this is the law of contradictions, and I say this because the first line is about to begin with the Parliament's commitment to improving the agricultural market competitiveness of Hungarian farmers, and the rest, and many times, we hear this sentence here in the Hungarian Parliament. This legislation will then be exempt from the Land Traffic Act and does not apply to farmers, at least as a farmer, it is not a condition for acquiring property here. So I don't understand why they left that great phrase in the front row. And then they talk about creating an optimal size estate as a target. It'd be nice to be honest about that, too. A number of agricultural laws come up with that wording, yet, what do you have in mind when you think about it? Because if it is called optimal that a natural person can have 300 hectares of property maximum in Hungary, why, for example, do we again make an exception to this law? And it doesn't count the land acquired in this way during the elimination of undivided common property, which I think is unacceptable, and there would have been plenty of time to say that if there was a situation in which the undivided joint elimination of land would have increased its land over these 300 hectares, then within a certain grace period, let's say, for the next year, it would have been able to dispose of such land as the 300 hectares again. This, I think, may be a cause for serious abuse, but unfortunately, we can talk about this in connection with other laws, as we have encountered similar dilemmas in connection with the law that underpins this or tries to manage a branch of the cooperative land, and I have not been given a meaningful answer as to why this is necessary. In other respects, however, the legislation was not brave enough at all. Let's just say they didn't dare to touch the inheritance, even though there was a substantive and honest debate here about the great amendment of the civil code that seemed to me at the time that property fragmentation could ultimately be prevented in a sustainable way if the rules of succession were to be dealt with in some way. The lack of redress is also worrying, while, in the final case, when the Hungarian State is forced to intervene and take ownership of the territory, it is clearly described that the parties may refer the matter to a court in the event of a dispute relating to compensation. However, until the Hungarian state enters this story, this possibility is not available. This can also be interpreted as meaning that if they sue the Hungarian state, it is okay, because the Hungarian taxpayers will finance it if the Hungarian State loses this lawsuit. On the other hand, if your favorites, your appearances, clearly on the basis of these laws, the interests of the existing large farmers would be damaged or their interests put at risk in relation to a court decision, there will be no way for the other owners to prevent this, so the direction of appeal is very obvious here. I've read this example somewhere, but I want to bring it here, because I think it illustrates that it should be clear to those who may not be in this area what I mean. [[13.50]] If, I do so, the government will say one day that it is absolutely untenable that the Hungarian people, say, live in tenements in Budapest, 15-20 square meters, in a room-kitchen apartment, and it is no longer acceptable in today's world, so they will be evicted, but of course, the neighboring luxury apartment will compensate them, as it will be just right to expand their property with an extra room; and they will try to sell it here in some kind of positive robe. So I think this is what this feels like for many who will meet in practice with the implementation of the law, because the fact is that it is a terrible number, that we can talk about three and a half million owners, who are affected by this over a million hectares, but let us not pretend that everyone here wanted to get rid of this situation. And I know that there are legitimate examples here that would suggest that in many cases the many and unattainable owners who exist in relation to one area, but that is not the generality. So in a number of cases, and in most cases, this is a well-established, existing cultivation order normally taking place, where the owners were satisfied with the situation that is currently in place, so that they received their rent each year and could count on it every year, and thank you very much, they do not necessarily want to participate in this process. [[Dr. István Nagy's intervention:]] They will be obliged to do so; if they decide to do so, 50 plus 1 percent, it is mandatory to do so for those who did not want to do so, or to involve those who did not want to do so. The lack of an implementing regulation is also worrying. Correct me, Minister, if I'm wrong, but it's not typical of these implementing regulations to arrive on time, sometimes months or even years. This has also been the case recently for agricultural purse legislation. I'm bringing this here because the little devil will hide in the details. So, dryly, this law contains very, very many open questions, some of which are now referred to in the proposal, and has made a point, so I am glad that there are still a lot of open questions. So I hope that the implementing regulation will arrive in time and clear these matters. For example, to mention nothing else, the land price definition. It would be nice if they could at least agree on something in-house. For the past two years, this may be the third or fourth method of land pricing we've encountered. There was already a reference to the land price, which was customary here; it was on the ha, on the golden crown; then there was the twenty-year profit margin of the land, didn't it, that was a land price, which was in itself a bit absurd, funny, and really a Nobel Prize for an economist who could tell for twenty years what they were going to produce on that land, under what market conditions, under what support, under what tax policy, under what weather, so that I would say nothing else? So that wasn't obviously a sustainable thing either. What became of it in practice will be interesting in the debate of the law that belongs to the courts. But now we've come to the conclusion that the experts will determine that. I am curious to see where those experts will be with such deadlines and at such a large amount of land. I hope we're wrong, and this is going to be smooth, but I'm afraid it's not. Just as the burden of the land offices will, of course, increase. There are already serious problems, and I do not think that these institutions are currently in a position to resolve this without any state aid, without any problems, even if the distribution programme was mentioned as aid. Let me mention some practical things quickly. Article 4 The notification must be rejected if it is listed in the section, which, by the way, makes it entirely inappropriate to carry out the elimination of the undivided common land, but it is a very lifelike situation when a person has the largest share of ownership in an undivided common 30 ha, but let's say there are 80 owners, and one of them only has a few hundred square metres of ownership, but has accumulated a few hundred square metres of public debt, and thus has a right to implement this land, thereby preventing the exercise of the rights of many decent owners. So here, too, I think that some proportionality could have been introduced into the legislation, because this makes it impossible for years or even forever for this land to be properly scaled. You can see that the elimination of undivided joint property can be started at an administrative service fee of HUF 15,000. I do not understand this either, because there were promises here earlier that this could be a completely free process, especially if the state could benefit from this story in the medium term. It's a little weird, but I'm just gonna keep this in parentheses by calling it a deal when 51 percent wants something and 49 doesn't. I think they could have found a less misleading concept, knowing the Hungarian language. What I wanted to mention is the support of young farmers in this legislation, because it would have been possible. Here they are remembered only in one case when the entire territory of the property is below the minimum when the undivided joint ownership is removed. I mean, it's all a matter of cultivation, but let's just say it's about a hectare. I believe that throwing this tiny bone is very thin, while not only in Hungary, but throughout the European Union, we are talking about the fact that agro-generation change is one of the biggest challenges for the sector, and I fully agree with that, and that we should help young farmers much more, whether in terms of support or in terms of land policy. So I would encourage us not only to give them the opportunity in this very exceptional and very low-value situation, but also to give young farmers the opportunity to benefit from undivided joint surveys during normal settlement. In terms of public engagement: I think that instead of a 51 percent share of ownership, they could have been a little more than small ones, and, let's say, a two-thirds ratio could have been set up. I understand that it would have increased the number of cases where there would have been no agreement between us, and the Hungarian State would have had to intervene, but there would have been plenty of resources for this, because if there had not been another one, let me mention the HUF 270 billion amount that had taken place during the privatisation of state lands, and that will continue to take place after the implementation of this legislation to the Hungarian State. So I think that there would have been an opportunity and a source for the State to intervene in such a final case, to intervene first, and then to launch programmes from these areas, in line with the old Fidesz promises, either to help family farmers living on the ground or to start young farmers starting their careers. So what I can say is that we are going to have amendments, which are trying to refine this legislation. I can honestly say that I would be very, very happy if the entire Parliament, but at least the Jobbik faction, could support this legislation, but there are still conditions. I have already said some of the conditions, and another part will be mentioned by my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, and I think other speakers of the opposition will also highlight details that could make this legislation more acceptable and more widely supportive. I hope that I can get a meaningful answer to one or two specifics. Thank you for the opportunity. [[14.00]]
u2020-05-05-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-05-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In the field of land ownership, there are many special cases, rules to strengthen the exception, specific practices and solutions to be legislative, who can put them all under the protective umbrella of the same value and interest. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I believe that the bill before us can meet this challenge by settling the fate of the 1 million 60 thousand undivided undivided plots of land and carrying out historical justice. With the adoption and introduction of the bill, I believe that the Hungarian agricultural economy will become even more competitive. Creating a clean, transparent land ownership structure for all public and private land is an essential condition for increasing competitiveness. We know very well that they are now one of the huge barriers to the development of competitiveness in undivided common-owned lands. In view of this, it is important for the legislator to offer the possibility of eliminating all undivided common land ownership in which the state, the regulation, played a role. I am convinced that the Government and the Agricultural Ministry are committed to improving the competitiveness of Hungarian farmers in the agricultural market, strengthening their economic positions and supporting the development of domestic agriculture based on an optimal size, stable, transparent ownership structure. As Minister said in his exposé, over a million properties are burdened by undivided common property, we are talking about almost two and a half million hectares, and we are talking about about about three and a half million owners. The bill allows the ownership of undivided land for common agricultural and forestry purposes to be settled over the past decades so that farmland can be economically cultivated without administrative burden and can be used or owned. The real estate register includes a large number of owners whose identity is unclear, unidentifiable or who are unfortunately no longer among the living. This uncertain ownership situation in land is not only the elimination of undivided joint ownership, but also difficulties in the proper exploitation of property. For this reason, the bill introduces a new procedure to identify uncertain persons and ultimately eliminates the problems arising from the uncertain ownership situation by putting unsettled property into public ownership. Thus, on the basis of the bill before us now, the legal fate of the land affected by undivided joint ownership will be resolved in accordance with uniform principles, in the context of much cheaper and faster procedures than the current one, with the minimum involvement of the state. The motion satisfies the existing need, as Minister said that no less than 250 000 farmers have submitted applications by the deadline of June 12. After the adoption of the new law, the settlement of a fragmented, legally unmanageable property structure will, in principle, depend in most cases not on the rate of grinding of the mills of the offices, but on the speed of the agreement of the applicants, and, in worse and smaller cases, on the luck of the lottery. It is important that the proposal also encourages additional ownership of actual land users. The value of the motion is also that, in the case of rational, many undivided common land ownership, it would be a task to find the unsearchable, mister's forgiveness, which is bordering on or beyond the impossible. - owners who died without a probate. At the same time, it also provides for the protection of the interests of the partners in the minority by putting in place a number of important regulations. I would also like to mention and point out that the legal scope of the bill, in order to address the serious deficiency of the so-called OKTM project so far, includes areas of forest cultivation. It was just about time that we were able to settle their fate with comfort. In addition, I highly recommend to this House that the draft law be discussed and adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr László Varga, is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, There are countless times when it comes to proposals on agricultural policy and on the future of the Hungarian land, how much policy issues we are discussing. Obviously, many times these are narrow policy issues that we are talking about. This is clearly a criticism of opposition parties by the pro-government representatives. I think that we are not discussing such a proposal, which is only a policy issue. The figures were: 2.4 million hectares, 3.5 million affected. I think that when we are discussing such a proposal, we need not only to discuss the competitiveness aspects of closely taken agricultural farmers, but not only what such proposals mean for farmers. This is also a very important question. Obviously, any proposal that supports the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture will be voted if it is not otherwise embedded in salad laws that make this impossible for us. One word, like a hundred, in policy matters, for the sake of the competitiveness of the Hungarian land, for the sake of the competitiveness of agriculture, in order to strengthen the sustainability of the Hungarian countryside, can be considered together, but when we are discussing a proposal of this size, the number of stakeholders shows that this is not just a question of agricultural policy. Therefore, it is not possible to approach it in this way alone. I also see that the proposal is extremely complex and, compared to the ten years of government and ten years ago, it has been said many times in answer to a wide variety of questions that the proposal on the undivided common will soon come, very many people have been waiting for this, experts, stakeholders, owners, compared to the first impression that one has obviously received from experts, with whom he has been able to consult, and for the time being with limited concerns, indeed, let us say disappointing. Zoltán Magyar was also very strong when he said that he had to wait ten years for this, in this form. I do not know yet, perhaps it is open enough, Minister, that you will consider the amendments and we can work on this. However, in the first instance, the concerns raised by experts are, in any case, very serious and, moreover, constitutional issues. In this connection, what other disappointments, if any, will be expressed by millions of people when such a system will work in practice, is another question. Obviously, we'll still get answers to that in months, years. [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] The Hungarian Fundamental Law, adopted by two thirds of you after 2010, is very clear: everyone has the right to property and inheritance. The right to property may be limited to the extent strictly necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, in order to ensure that other fundamental rights or a constitutional value are respected, while respecting the essential content of fundamental rights. I claim, and this is the opinion of experts, in the first round examination of the law, that this particular hybrid system proposed by the draft is, in fact, a system that, in combination with the elements of expropriation, partly privatization, creates a system that does not, however, contain the guarantees of these legal institutions. [[14.10]] This is a very serious problem and it must be examined that the social need alone justifies this kind of solution and this kind of constitutionally questionable solution. I've been referred here to this simple majority of speakers. According to the draft, therefore, the simple majority of the owners according to the ownership ratio are sufficient to start the printing and sharing of the undivided joint in this hybrid new system. Obviously, the fact that we have to make a unanimous decision, we have seen what has resulted, so I am trying to be fair in this, obviously I do not think that it is absolutely the solution. There may be a difference between a case and a case here. Mr. Minister said that there is a situation where there are hundreds of owners. Obviously, in these cases, i.e. adjusted to a larger number of 80 per cent, it is a 90 per cent challenge to solve the problem, but there are a lot of cases where we are talking about a much smaller number of owners, in which case I think it is important to consider, let us say, increasing this simple majority decision rate and this proportion of the initiative. However, compared to the ratio of the operation of a condominium, it is a strange analogy, but let's say we are already trying to require legislative minimums such as that on a redistributive, re-regulating issue that basic ownership conditions. So I think that this simple majority will result in a lot of disputes, and we do not see the fundamental rights of those remaining in the minority as guaranteed in the draft, we do not see their protection as guaranteed in substance in this situation. Members before me have already spoken about this, as has been the case, and this is also related to what has been said so far, that the proposal discriminates against fellow owners who, by the way, wish to maintain this common property unchanged, because, let us say, they were satisfied with the rent, or for other reasons, and here more than 90 days have been mentioned by my fellow Members. Practically, if you constantly initiate, say, a potential minority shareholder to eliminate this undivided joint, then you will continue to make the exercise of ownership impossible for 90 days, if any, in some respect for other partners. So if you want to use it in common ownership and, where appropriate, there are even a majority of people who are protected by this draft, this is also a question for me. The administrative service fee was mentioned. Here, I think it is necessary to look at exactly who, why, what is to be paid for, and to clarify certain points, as well as how land's real estate value should be determined. I also share that as many laws, there are almost as many methods to do this, and we are again talking about an expert valuation. I find it difficult to see why this is closer to practice. Obviously, there may be dumping-like procedures now that will make it very difficult to complete them. I must point out that there is a great deal of administrative burden in this proposal. It would be important for the Registry to take over from its own initiative all changes in data resulting from the abolition of common property, which I consider important to put on the table. Obviously, this will be mentioned in the amendments tabled by the opposition representatives. This was about the dealership program. I understand that it wants to be a modern, innovative thing, and that it can mean savings, but that only the partners involved in this activity, so that starting this procedure, let's say, this can cause a lot of practical problems; for example, I say one thing: land users do know the practical issues and problems that exist in nature about the land, so it would be worth involving them in this procedure in some way, I think. There are issues that are not resolved or resolved in the way that the proposal could be. The public credibility of the real estate register should be a very important value. Trust in this is not unbroken by some practical problems, let us say, due to differences in reality and property records, this belief and public confidence are not unbroken. In this context, it would be important to put an end to the conditions that call into question public credibility during the procedure. This is expressly prohibited, made difficult by the presentation or the draft itself. Obviously, this could also be important in order to avoid further discussions. I think you should take that into account. I'd like to come up with the regulations a little bit more at the end, and there are two problems with that. One is that in many cases they are not born in time or are not born. This is the practice we see in the implementation regulations. I'm not saying that specifically to this wallet right now, I'm saying that in general. This is always a petitioner's mark, or a question mark for an opposition representative, if it is too broad to make a regulation, and they can also lay down detailed rules in these implementing regulations, which would otherwise be good if they were known when we are discussing the bill itself, because this may also determine the voting behaviour of the opposition factions, where appropriate. The detailed rules for the abolition of existing undivided joint ownership by sharing the property and by redeeming it by a single shareholder will in fact be laid down in this implementing regulation. It is therefore very difficult to make a substantive decision on the proposal that it is not known today. So I would like to point out that it would be good for us to be able to get to know them in the course of this motion before this House. I would have been able to make a lot of points, which, by the way, have been made before me by other Members. I would like to be in a position to suggest to my group that we support this proposal, but there is a constitutional problem with it, I see that, and there may also be a lot of practical problems with the proposal. If it is possible to turn this into such an amendment, then obviously this opinion may be possible, but I can say that I agree with the principle, that this problem should have been resolved, that should have been resolved long ago, that is important for the competitiveness of the Hungarian countryside, that is important for millions of owners, that is important for the users of the land. Put the opposition in that position, I ask of the Minister, to be a proposal for a final vote here in the House in a few weeks' time, which is eligible for everyone's benefit. I would like to say that this is not the norm before us today. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-05-90	Dear House, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-05-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot of people have been waiting for the bill on undivided common land ownership, because, indeed, we are dealing with one of the freaks of the period after the regime change, which in many respects causes problems of competitiveness and personal conflicts, let's add, so human relations have deteriorated because of the undivided common property, and let's face it, too, I don't even know how many years of trouble it causes us, because Parliament has always tried to find a format to solve this. In the beginning, when I read the bill... and I forward it to all those who have a personal number of 1s, and know better about agriculture, that after two laws comes hybrid warfare, which I know better than this. But I'm stuck to all of it, obviously I'm coming from a region of the Great Plain, the Karcag part, where undivided common property has caused problems and causes many people today. [[14.20]] As I have read, I have basically found in this bill exciting proposals, new approaches. I think it has very forward-looking ideas, a very good debate ground, but we know the details are important. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned here that the implementing regulations, and I would like to mention this later, are particularly important, because recently we have found in the case of agricultural legislation that the point has always been defined in these implementing regulations, a little later, and we voted on the bill itself which, I would almost say, was not even a vague idea of what would happen in the implementing regulation. From the point of view of legislation, of course, it is logical that there is a law for the first time, and then the various implementing regulations, and there is no debate between us, but I think that, in many cases, this changes the idea of the law that we have in mind, so it would be good for the wallet to say a few sentences in advance about how it imagines the implementing regulation and in what timetable. In terms of time, the best example, let's say, is the irrigation law. In this case, I have already submitted a number of written questions that the watering bill was passed by the Parliament, but the implementing regulations, they were said to arrive sometime in spring. It already feels like spring, and it's a good day out, but it's spring and April and spring, and now it's spring and May, and it might be June at the end of the day, when we get there. I have a lot of small problems that I'm going to submit on a written question, because I think it's a very good way to communicate with the agricultural purse. In such a list, the identification of the ownership circle in the case of undivided joint ownership, the notification of the ownership, the use of the distribution programme, the transfer of rights to the ownership sheet, the path to be established on the new ownership, the purchase price in the court deposit, the size and ownership limit on expropriation, or the relationship of the real estate authority's database with another public database. These are the little things I think are worth talking about. I would like to make it clear that I am not going to put forward an amendment with the greatest goodwill, because the last time I saw it, I was very disappointed. In fact, there was a case in which it was apparent that there was an agreement between us with regard to agricultural holdings of major importance, which could, for example, be declared protected in the event of an emergency, where, let us say, representatives of the defence or any other public body could go out to help ensure continuity, and, unfortunately, the amendment tabled by me at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture was voted down, and the wallet supported the committee. I'll take it if the wallet doesn't think I've made the point right, but then there was no demand... [[Sándor Font: The wallet did not support this proposal! The president's ringing the bell.]] Yes, the wallet did not support this proposal. This was bad because the Minister, on the other hand, said positively about my proposal, and I think it would have been important, because whether the Committee on Agriculture, of which I am not a member, and I am not a member, because there was no place for the Democratic Coalition, I say this because it is read on my head every single time, and on the other hand, the competent specialist of the agricultural portfolio, obviously with a common dialogue, could have formed its position, understanding our political or professional dialogue here. So I believe that the Minister has good intentions in this regard, but apparently there was no intention in his apparatus, so I think that the submission of an amending proposal is a very nice gesture, but it doesn't lead anywhere, because in recent times we have not seen that we have made progress even in matters where we have an agreement. Allow me to highlight a few paragraphs specifically from the bill. The first one is 12. §, it's basically about taking in. It says that ownership shares below the territorial minimum and which cannot be converted into a separate property can be redeemed by the other owners, and that in order to compensate for the part of the property to be redeemed, the author's partner must pay at least the consideration corresponding to the value of the property determined by means of an estimate of value. Here is the first blank request for the wallet regarding the regulation on the valuation opinion, because we did not see what it contained, and, as I mentioned, the same example was in the case of the irrigation management law. For example, it should be clarified here that the amount corresponding to the value established in the assessment opinion is either the maximum value or the minimum value, or what value, intermediate value, what that means; or that it will issue this opinion precisely, in accordance with Article 26. persons or farming organisations as defined in paragraph 2 of this Article. It is important to know when these regulations will be established, because without the law it is a lame duck, because there is no way to move forward with regard to the division of undivided common land. This valuation you're making, will all your partners have to send it away, and can anyone offer it? And what's very important is that you can challenge the assessment opinion? It is also an important question who will be able to make an offer on these areas to be absorbed. Anyone who will own the land, regardless of size, or partners with the area to be absorbed, or only owners with a pre-size limit? So who's gonna get the chance to do that? Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. § 1 deals with the land lease contract, which states that the sharing does not eliminate land use based on land use contracts in common-owned land. That's a very good thought, by the way, I'd say it just raises a few questions. What if the tenant wants it, but the new owner doesn't want it? What if nobody wants to? So what's the solution to that? I didn't find out in the law how to solve and solve this problem. In addition, I would like to say that it is closely linked to this and to the valuation, which my fellow Members have already mentioned, that private property, as a priority, is being protected here in many respects, obviously because it is a specific ownership situation, will be harmed by a Hungarian citizen. Therefore, I think that it is necessary to be very careful when establishing the rules of the portfolio, which, in addition to a private property breach of such a weight, are either valuation, land use based on land use contracts or, in the case of the following paragraph, this is the case with regard to Section 16. § settle the issue of ownership. It's 16. § 2 shows that if several partners claim the land, the order in which the property can be acquired. First, it places the largest user of the land, taking into account the general land ownership policy objective, which you have supported, so that the land is first and foremost owned by the person using it. If this is not the case, it must be selected from among those with the largest ownership shares and, in the event of equality, it allows young people to acquire ownership. I can imagine any order of that kind. To add, I think that could be a discrimination problem, because then what the young... is not yet written in to be a man; I hope they won't enter [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Very funny!]] So it should be possible for any young farmer to acquire it, but this is a very serious property limitation measure. Because I can't decide for myself who I want to sell it to, because the law tells me who it is and in what order. I would like to raise the one question that I think is important: what if someone makes a much better offer on the ground than these? So what? Do I have the right to choose that, or do I have to do it anyway, so I have to go in that order, and then who's gonna compensate me for my loss? These are important questions, because, as Minister in his expozee and, by the way, I think he said in the article published on kormany.hu, there are a lot of people involved here, and I agree with those who say that it is not possible to satisfy everyone's needs in this respect in terms of sharing undivided common land, but that there should be efforts to make more winners. [[14.30]] I would like to raise and inquire about the common rules of ownership, and I think I may have had a fellow Member who mentioned this, which is the maximum issue of land grabbing. I mean, honestly, we're... we're talking a lot about agricultural issues now, and I think pretty much everyone can shoot it up, that when it comes to agricultural issues, they're gonna talk out of the faction. I think the maximum case for land grabbing has come up on every bill, and it's come up with every bill submitted by the agricultural purse because it's always been another exception. I think that there must be a common position on these issues, because now there will be more exceptions in these matters than the general rule adopted. I'd like to finally bring up when there was a land for the rich! Excuse me, the land for the farmers! At that time, the MFB had a loan scheme for land purchase under the Government decision of 1765/2015. This was about a HUF 250 billion loan program that many people used to get land. I'd like to inquire, and it's obviously not part of the law, but there's a plan to make a similar loan program. [[Dr. István Nagy: Yes.]] Just because I think the smaller ones, if you understand it correctly, the less affluent ladies and gentlemen, could be given the opportunity of such a loan scheme, in order to say that once they come out of such a transaction triumphant, because that would be the goal. I would like to suggest to the wallet that you consider the proposals that we have just made here with the help of experts, my fellow opposition Members and myself, because the acceptance or at least partial acceptance of these proposals in the bill would, in my view, greatly help us to see that this issue which is important and to be resolved for all of us in this changed form of this bill, so, in addition to the proposals that we have made, we can vote for it. Moreover, if this remains the text of the bill, we will not be able to support this bill, to my greatest regret. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-05-05-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, At the beginning of my speech, I would like to clarify that, in the case of agricultural land and forests, the LMP does not consider it a sustainable form of ownership, which is why we welcome the Government's initiative to eliminate this form of ownership. We continue to believe that Hungarian agricultural land must be owned by Hungarian small and medium-sized owners. It is the skilled family farms based on agricultural land that manage the farmland in a sustainable way. They will not need to be convinced that our soils need to be protected, increased, that the landscape, the soil and the ecology need to be maintained and shaped in a state that can ensure that in the long term it can be managed effectively on the soil. A family farm is interested in enabling heirs, farmers, to provide their livelihoods from the earth in as good conditions as is currently possible. A farmer who takes into account the aspects of future generations will enrich and build the landscape, soil according to its potential and knowledge. That's what I wanted to tell you in such a way. These sustainability aspects, we know, we see that in the case of undivided common-owned land, there is no guarantee, and there is even a fear that some people, taking advantage of the disorderly situation, would rather extort or destroy the land in their short-term interests. So on this issue, the aim of the LMP, the Green Party of Hungary, coincides with the government's goal: in the case of agricultural land and forests, the undivided common property must be eliminated, with the exception of the undivided common property within the family. During the current general debate, we would like to outline the proposals that we believe could really make the draft law more suitable for this purpose. We will propose amendments to the draft law, we are eternally optimistic in this regard, and this is what we are doing to ensure that a national matter of such importance is implemented as best as possible and that sustainability and justice are implemented as fully as possible. Please allow me, if not per paragraph, but at least per topic, to go over where we consider the amendments to the bill to be necessary. First of all, I must point out that land offices have a very important role to play in this task. The earth's office apparatus must be prepared to carry out this extremely important task with a great deal of administration well and smoothly. In addition, the role of land offices must be further strengthened in the process, because in some cases we believe that only the active involvement of the state apparatus can ensure that all processes take place smoothly and fairly. That is why we ask the government to start placing additional resources in this year's budget for the development of the professional apparatus of land offices, so that if the law enters into force, they can be prepared for any announcements. It is important that, if the state of the budget does not allow this to happen this year, and it will only be possible to do so in the next year's budget, then we think it would be more worthwhile to push a little bit of the entry into force of the bill, at least half a year. This has already been said several times, and it is not clear to us whether this 90-day deadline is sufficient to submit an application for a transfer of shares. Where appropriate, the process may affect a large number of owners, including the National Centre for Earth Affairs, representing the Hungarian State, or uncertain, unidentifiable owners. Due to the complexity of the process, we believe that at least twice as much time, 180 days, should be available for this process. Since we believe, and we probably agree with this government, that the elimination of undivided common property is in fact a public interest, we also propose that the procedure should be free of charge instead of the already symbolic administrative service fee of HUF 15 thousand, if possible, so that the budget should provide the necessary funds to do so to the full. Perhaps this would be a small relief for the success of the process. It is a much more serious question as to whose task it is to notify the partners. According to the bill, this should be done by the initiating partner, but it would also be up to the land offices to investigate the unknown or uncertain ownership partners. The Land Administration has the necessary data to detect the owners, it has the possibility to discover or clarify the identity of the owners on the basis of the address register or the company register. We therefore believe that the notification of the opening of the procedure should be made by the land offices in a uniform manner for the other customers. This may also ensure that all stakeholders are properly and satisfactorily informed of the whole procedure. According to the draft, the notification must not only be deemed to have been served if the recipient has not sought it, but also if it is returned with an address that has been moved. We don't think that's acceptable. It's an unfair procedure against people whose addresses could otherwise be traced from the address records. Therefore, in such cases, on the basis of other available data, the land office should attempt to locate the home address of the owner. In order to ensure adequate guarantees, it should be stipulated by law that, in such a case, the land office should repeat the delivery to the known new address based on the details of the address registry. So I'm talking about when someone moved to a new place. That would be important to us. [[14.40]] Another question: with the adoption of the draft law, the country's vocabulary, we believe that it will evolve, and we will provide a legal report and content for this incorporation. We ask that we do our utmost to ensure that this word is not accompanied by unfair theft or elimination reporting. Undivided joint ownership rates have been further fragmented with inheritances since the acquisition of ownership, in many cases it is likely that the children and possibly grandchildren of the original owners have inherited the ownership share together and are extremely fragmented. In many cases, fragmented ownership shares do not reach the minimum area size that can be created per individual, so that they can be absorbed. The draft law does not take into account family ties; it only gives the highest bidder the opportunity to receive them. In our view, this is unfair to those who do not necessarily want to keep fragmented holdings together at the highest price in the family and create an independent area. We believe that there is a need to find a way to keep property within the family even if there is an agreement between family members, close relatives, heirs with a common straight line relative, but they do not decide within the family on the basis of the highest supply price who is to cover the ownership of the others. Even in the case of ownership of a single partner, domestic ties should be given a role. It is important to clarify that this should be done if the size of the property is less than twice the territorial minimum, since in order to be able to create two separate plots of land, the original property must be at least twice as large as the territorial minimum. Article 16 is replaced by the following: According to §, a partner with the largest share of ownership may ingeste the other shares. This rule is unfair to families that have acquired shares in inheritance or other title, but in total, the family would have the largest share of ownership. We would therefore consider it important for this case to be regulated by law in order to protect families. The possibility of abolishing undivided common property by expropriation is more precisely required in law. The cases described in the draft address the situation where a high number of partners or other reasons are causing this process to be extremely difficult. However, we consider it important not to have and, but rather, an alternative relationship between the described cases, so if the division has already been initiated at least three times, but for some reason it has not succeeded, or it has already been two years since the entry into force of the law, and the high number of partners justify this. A few more things. It is important that the possibility of public expropriation can also be initiated for further environmental and conservation objectives. With regard to expropriations, it is very important that the NFKs have no discretion. Where otherwise the undivided common ownership cannot be eliminated or is justified by nature or environmental interest, the expropriation shall start 90 days after the initiative has taken place on the 90th day following the date of the initiative, at the expense of the appropriation of the central budget for the cessation of undivided common land ownership. In our opinion, do not consider the National Earth Control Center. Finally, I need to talk about the transfer of unidentifiable property to state property. In several respects, LMP considers the method described in the draft to be highly flawed. We do not dispute that there is something to be done with the ownership share of unidentified partners, but that ownership of the State would be a flawed solution. It is far more appropriate that the ownership of the unidentifiable owner or owners be recorded on the deed as described. These shares in the settlement should be regarded as accepting the settlement, thus calculating the minimum percentage of 50 per cent. According to the agreement reached, these shares can be absorbed by a partner offering the highest amount. The consideration for the takeover would be deposited by the court in which it was received. If the former owner is not identified by the end of the fifth year following the date of registration of the termination of the undivided common property, the amount deposited in court will be owned by the State and the land conservation objectives will be achieved. This method would help to establish agreements. It would be possible to reach an agreement in these cases without the State's active involvement. I think we agree that this would be a great relief for everyone. According to justice, if the identity of the rightful owner is revealed within five years, he could obtain the amount deposited in court. Even if the rightful owner is not found, there will be no unjust enrichment. The consideration would be for land conservation purposes as part of the public budget. This regulation could also prevent future lawsuits. Mr Minister, I very much hope that you will agree with what has been said, because our proposals serve expediency, justice and sustainability. As I said, we will put forward proposals for the law, and I still have the bad news that we will have more proposals for the law. I'm going to say that in a proper speech. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-05-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The congresswoman would have had a whole minute, but I'm sure she'll want to tell you more. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to the first independent Member. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the view of the Hungarian Movement, the undivided common form of property is the crown virus of Hungarian agriculture, causing extremely serious damage to Hungarian agriculture for a long time. It is justified and necessary to take decisive action against this form of ownership, which does not, of course, constitute a power of action without any limitations. Firstly, I would like to join or respond to the words of Commission President Font Sándor. In the case of trades between current undivided joint tables or between tables, the situation of the owners could also be significantly facilitated. I claim, Minister, that you have not done everything you can to facilitate this law, which we are discussing here, before it comes into force, to encourage the removal of this terribly cursed form of property, which can be called the curse of old times without exaggeration, and indeed we do not remember those who invented it at the time, and have unleashed it on us. I am thinking of what I have said before, and I am forced to repeat it now, as the position of the Hungarian Movement, that if they were willing to consider leading to amendments in the land law that should substantially include that, if there is a transaction between owners within undivided common-owned territories, or within a given settlement or between settlements, such as the wording of which is also in this law, there is no need to suspend or approve these transactions. The fact now, Minister, is that only and only if the transaction terminates the undivided joint ownership, in Hungarian: someone buys up a board at the same time, this typical suspicious or speculative behaviour, or someone uses the last such transaction at the end of the many transactions or several transactions, thus ending it. Thus, as part of a process, the undivided joint will cease, so a large contract or the last of many small contracts will not have to be suspended, not to mention the legal transactions between close relatives. [[14.50]] It is therefore with great respect that we propose, on behalf of the Hungarian Movement, to consider the renaming of these amendments before the entry into force of this law, which is now 1 January 2021. We could also call these necessary preliminary measures, as this would stimulate the process of natural selection, stimulate the process of contracting between people without debate, without time delays and delays. This will prevent many conflicts. What we are talking about here may not have been said in the course of this debate, we will probably have to ask for more time, because I will not fit in the 15 minutes, honourable Members, these are also very serious emotional issues. Anyone who owns land, owns forests knows well if he cultivates it especially, but if he only thinks that he inherited even a small measure of space from his great-grandparents, grandparents, parents, and a certain pre-lover value that is not necessarily linked to it at market prices, emotions are attached to it, and it comes out of his property or use against his will, it is a very serious emotional problem, and it raises very serious other questions. So I propose to take these preliminary measures. But I don't understand how I've been talking to several land officials, colleagues, how logical it is that when someone buys it at once because there is a chance that the Hungarian land will fall into the hands of a bunch of agents or speculators, if someone buys a lot at the same time, they don't need to be posted or approved. And when, let's say, a 13-acre sign buys a half acre with a long history of ownership, it has to be suspended. I don't want to ruin or test the stenographers' nervous system, but I'm going to outline once again what stations you have to go through to ensure that in Hungary you are either a partner within a board, who is guaranteed to be non-speculator... if nothing else, local land committees can also check or, if you like, assure others that there is no speculator shopping or buying going on. In the vast majority of cases, such a transaction takes place within the undivided common property: a law firm, a billboard of the mayor's office, a county land office after the 60-day suspension, a county agricultural chamber, a local land committee, a county agricultural chamber, a county land office, another law firm, a regional land office according to the location of the land. This is crazy, this is crazy, ladies and gentlemen. I want a man and a lawyer on his feet who can track this like this. I would also like to point out that I have also raised this at committee meetings, given that the notices are also available electronically on the advertising.magyarország.hu website, it would be appropriate to consider a reduction of 60 days to 30 days. As I have just said, with the 60-day suspension, on average, it means a six-month procedure at best, but this could run into eight to ten months, according to the news, in Pest County, sometimes even one-and-a-half years until someone's ownership is registered. This also applies to cases where such transactions take place within undivided common property. But to get to a closer point of view of the bill before us, it does raise practical questions. I'm trying to highlight practical problems right now. Let's get started on the 4th floor. In paragraph 2 of this Article, the following paragraph is added: In principle, the termination of the undivided joint ownership cannot be initiated, such an application must be rejected if there is a sales contract in place within that territory. How will the partners of the owners know this, and how will the competent land administration know this? At the moment, if we conclude a sales contract in respect of land ownership, or a given sign by partners, which has now made it extremely difficult, then the Land Office does not have an obligation to register on its own initiative that there is a sale going on here, only if the buyer's interest in the text of the contract is in general explicitly binding this on a separate contractual point and pays the HUF 6600 procedural fee. Then, about two weeks after posting on the billboard, within 15 days, an order will be issued, and then, indeed, until the end of the crazy procedure, there will be a contract of sale in respect of that share of property. This is only applied in a small proportion of cases by the Contracting Parties. Otherwise, it is true in many respects because nothing can be registered except for enforcement law. In other words, the buyer cannot be eluded by the potentially fraudulent seller. To a very, very minimal extent, I think it is applied at 1 percent. We're already dealing with a practical problem here. In other words, the elimination of the undivided common property may begin, that there is a sale contract or possibly a swap in progress, it is not recorded on the ownership sheet, so it is not possible to know, in the case of a large number of owners, that, with the greatest discretion and the greatest good intentions, they will not even know that what they have started is immediately in a legal ban. I find one solution feasible. I will probably now overcome the anger of all the land officials and anger myself by everyone who works in this area, but there is one solution, honourable Members, so that the fact of the existence of a sale in every transaction is mandatory. However, I consider this to be a consideration of the fact that, if anything, this will place a mad burden on earth officials. It's not an easy question, but if you leave it in there, I don't see any other solution, because how do you know that there's a sale going on, even though there really should be an end to undivided common property. And then there's the problem of a different branch of cultivation. Article 8 I'm thinking paragraph 2 of this article. This could be discussed several times in itself for 15 minutes. What's this about? It is very common that, compared to the branch of cultivation in the land register, the reality is very different. In other words, the area is in the grazing area at the land office, but it is already used in part or in whole as a plougher or as a plougher, but it is practically already a pasture, because it has been abandoned in whole or in part. It is possible for almost all the other branches of cultivation, so it may be, let's say, a forested one. But according to my personal experience, the most common is the distance from reality in the pasture and ploughing combination. As it stands, not only does it prevent the collective abolition of the undivided will under the laws now in force, but it is rare for a large number of owners to do so, but it is also because the fellow owners prefer to apologize for the term, because they are afraid of the protection of the land, which can amount to two thousand times the value of the gold crown. This in itself is alarming enough not to eliminate the undivided joint. And there is another important circumstance: because of the different cultivation branches, if it is registered as pasture, but in reality it is already ploughing, who believes, according to the local custom, which is not written anywhere but the result of an oral deal between each other, the plough farmer is afraid that if the undivided common property is eliminated in this way, then his territory will be reduced. I have seen a practical example where in a 50-acre table, which was fully registered as pasture, the pasture class 3 owners would have received more than 11 hectares compared to their 9 hectares of ideas, while those who owned 8 hectares of pasture on paper, but actually already had arable land, would have been reduced to 5 or 5.5 hectares. In such internal proportions, no one will take on or take on the joint elimination of the undivided at present. I understand the good intentions and dare to assume that taking risks or taking risks does not apply to the fact that, after the exchange of ideas or principles takes place under the law, the gold crown value will end up being fined two thousand times the farmer, and there is no need to fear the risk of land loss. If that is the correct interpretation, then I am very pleased with it, but with great respect and infinite good intentions I recommend to you that we clarify this rule. For if these tensions, contradictions and fears, or if we do not remove barriers or inhibitions, then I envelop that in many places they will not begin to eliminate the undivided common property, because they are with it so that everything goes further than the fine for change in cultivation. In the text, it seems clear, in my understanding, at least, but it would be nice to find out that everyone can start from the original part of their ideas. So I don't feel that the risk of land loss is too high on this basis. But it is very unclear that the principle of sharing and, let's say, carrying out the actual survey operation, in Hungarian, between or after the beating of stakes, the farmer could not receive a terrible penalty. [[15.00]] In this regard, Mi Hazank Movement suggests that a moratorium should be announced, in Hungarian the host community should be exempt from payment of the land protection penalty in the event of undivided joint ownership terminations within a certain deadline. This will in itself stimulate common thinking, as the community of owners jointly and severally bears the risk of fines, and if the fine is imposed, which in many cases is only a matter of luck, when the administration of the land office in this area puts the locality in the control plan, it is in this sense a Russian roulette, and two thousand times the value of the golden crown can, to put it mildly, be extremely painful. I think that in the area where such a fine is imposed, we can be guaranteed to forget the elimination of undivided common property, not to mention the costs of change in cultivation, because, in my humble calculations, if we begin such an action now, it is about the cost of surveying, so in practice a double survey costs is paid by the person who has to pay for the conversion of cultivation. Indeed, it was said here that the devil dwells in the details. The deadline for the valuation. If something happens, money can be a good fight, farmers can fight, the deadline for valuation, and we don't see the deadline yet. With all due respect, I could suggest that the 90-day, perhaps partly narrow, deadline be made a little more flexible, so we could create a 60+60-day or 90+90-day rule. In other words, the 90-day current 90-day deadline can be extended once with a certain period of time to provide a kind of thermal expansion in this system. And I'm not gonna start with my next sentence, because it's gonna take me so far, so I'm gonna put the emphasis here and thank you for the opportunity to speak, but I'm sure I'm gonna push another button, because I have plenty more to say. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-05-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I'm asking if someone would like to speak in two minutes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then we will move on to the proper speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Steinmetz of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-05-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, By me, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén for presenting this bill, which aims to eliminate and reduce undivided common land. We have been looking forward to this proposal for a very long time, and thank you very much for the agricultural purse, the Minister and the colleagues here who have worked very hard on this. They say it takes time to do good work, but the Commissioner has already promised at the hearing of ministers' candidates two years ago that this will still be before this House, and I am pleased that you are one of the politicians who will keep their promise. And thank you to all my fellow Members, who have spoken today on such a far-reaching issue, because we know that this affects millions of hectares of land and, in essence, every third of our countrymen in Hungary, so we need to approach this issue with due care and professionalism, and I am trying to make my own best comments, suggestions, criticisms and questions here. I would like to hear it as a warm-up question, and I do not intend it to be a rhetorical question as to why Zsolt Semjén is typically submitting agricultural-themed legislative proposals. [[Dr. István Nagy: All submitted by him!]] when they could be submitted by the Minister or by another member of the Agriculture Committee or of the Committee. Although my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar did not say it today, he usually starts with what is left out of such a bill, I would like to ask the same thing. The law of succession, the Ptk. I do not see the amendment of this package of laws, even though we know that in many cases the creation of undivided common land with the deceased of the deceased comes from the legacy of the heirs, several heirs, and so, in this way, these lands are being fragmented. We are therefore looking forward, supported by a number of examples in Western Europe, to the possibility that the agricultural portfolio may also present proposals for this for the future. Then going into the bill, it's almost 6:00. I would like to add a question to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Agreement, which reads: "The new real estate to be created as a result of the settlement must be suitable for the proper agricultural and forestry cultivation. I respectfully ask what makes a land suitable for proper farming. Is there a government order or is there a government order? What is the definition of this? It's important to know. I agree with the need to make it suitable, since it is very difficult to do grazing on a pasture, say, 10 metres wide, a mile long strip. My question is that the dealer program will also take note of this, prepared for the technical background, with the appropriate IT skills, the developer of this software, and will take note of this. What is an important issue and I really don't want to repeat my fellow Members, because there are a lot of comments that I would have made myself, I will not do now, but it is questionable why a hectare is the smallest area size that this law regulates or makes suitable for allocation. Why isn't it less? In the past, if I remember correctly, it was 0.3 hectares that could be scaled, and the state even gave a financial contribution, so it could be measured free of charge, and this area size was already supported by the European Union when granting area payments, so I look forward to an explanation. I am convinced, of course, of one hectare, but I do not understand why we are going against our former principles or the European Union principles in this regard. I go further: the preparation or term technicus in this legislation, on the one hand, sounds alien and repulsive. When I read this, I'm sure my fellow Members will remember the little ball of Hungarian folk tales, who goes forward and simply absorbs everything that gets in their way. In the Hungarian countryside, there are several such small ball-like landowners, and the locals are very concerned about this. So I would consider it worthwhile to use the word, perhaps instead of encapsulating. But in fact, this is not just a game with words, and what concerns the essence here is the practice: it is a kind of expropriation, according to the law, in my reading. When I was still studying law at university, expropriation could be done with complete, unconditional and immediate compensation, which I am aware of, but the condition of expropriation is exceptional and public interest. It is not an exception, since it will be a practice if this legislation enters into force from now on or from 1 January. There's also the question of public interest. It is easy to convince me that there is a public interest in this, that agriculture, the competitiveness of agriculture and this undivided joint eradication, but it is not certain that three and a half million people think so, especially those who, as a result of the work of, say, family heritage, property or a life, own and own these areas as a result of the work of a life that has worked in a dot. They would have sold it decades ago, or even over the last few years, if they wanted to. It may not be appropriate now to put them in a position where they will be forced to sell them when they have not done so. So, summa summarum, in fact, I would suggest that it be worth considering that the purchase of that one hectare, or in which we agree together, of a share of property which does not reach the minimum size of the territory, should be done by the state, the state buying it, my fellow Members, by the way, from the money that now comes from the sale of state land. [[15.10]] It should not be spent on public debt, but, among other things, on the purchase of these tiny fractional estates. This would be easier to get through aunt Mary and Uncle Laci's throat, there wouldn't be any feud on the spot. And I think that, on the basis of the principles laid down in the law before us, the state could then pass these areas on to the partners, local farmers and land users in undivided joint ownership. My fellow Member Zoltán Magyar mentioned it, so I would like to briefly mention the lifting of land grabbing and land size restrictions. This law will now create another loophole in the change of the 300 hectares, otherwise completely objective, well-defined property maximum, or the property maximum of 1200 hectares or 1800 hectares. Don't do that. I'm asking you to. It's a good regulation, a well-tracked regulation. I don't see the point of constantly diluting and constantly eroding this otherwise well-functioning system. But with respect, I asked Minister, and I asked the question the other day, but I didn't get an answer: do you have a system that can determine, at the push of a button, how much of the 330 hectares, say, was given to the owner by gift, inheritance, sale, and how much of the undivided joint termination? Because if that's the case, then I think it's possible to do that. Makes the system a little chaotic. I still disagree with him, but assure me that this can be monitored in the future. One more important thought: it would also be worth considering that areas acquired by inheritance that do not reach 1 hectare, because, let's say, in a lifelike example, the three children of the deceased are transferred to land, but overall, this would be more than 1 hectare, in this case it would be worth setting a reasonable deadline for the heirs to settle the ownership between themselves, whether by giving gifts or by selling, and in this way the previous situation may arise that more than 1 hectare of land remain in the possession of the family, owned by the family, and should not be, say, by absorbing these three pieces to another joint partner. So I would very much ask that we consider this, too, because there is a deadline for entry into force here, but many will not know the details of this law. So I think that we should draw attention to this from our own initiative. And speaking of office, I recommend speeding up procedures, making them free. In the past, the state survey was free of charge. I understand there's a budget for this, or there'll be land sales. I ask that the government offices of land take a more active role, take a more active role in the process. What do I mean? To inform, to find the owners, because they have data or links to the Home Office's address register that they can simplify the process of notification. I understand that the land officials have enough problems, but if we are already doing something, fellow Members, that is what we are doing well, and that would make it easier to share undivided common land and become 1/1. So I would like to ask you with great respect, Minister, to answer the questions that have been raised. I am very pleased that the last two amendments tabled by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, were supported by both the government and the Fidesz majority in the Committee on Agriculture. I've been a congressman for two years. This hasn't happened before. So I trust this wasn't a one-time and unrepeatable moment in my life. We are going to put forward amendments, we are doing this on a purely professional basis and with good intentions, and I very much ask you to discuss this and to adopt a law that, if it really affects three and a half million people, has an appropriate socio-professional support, so that we can channel the questions and proposals that have been made today. So I'm asking for your partnership. In conclusion, thank you very much for finally bringing this law here, and I very much hope that this will solve the problem of long-standing undivided common property. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-05-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Fazekas, our former Minister. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, I find it particularly useful and timely that this bill is now before this House. We have a big task ahead of us, and I see that both pro-government and opposition speakers are aware of this. Millions of people, the Hungarian soil, are affected by this question, the agricultural land, its future, its condition is affected by its undivided common destiny. Dear Parliament, This is an old problem, and in fact a unique problem in the European Union, linked to the change of regime. A few days ago, we celebrated the 30-year anniversary, the establishment of the then Parliament. That system-shifting Parliament, the then government, sought the solution to how justice can be done to people, to compensate them, to compensate for the 40 years, to lose their property, to force them into the system, and to acknowledge how the work done there can be rewarded, while other compensation and compensation processes have also started. This is how this undivided common solution was designed for share ownership, and obviously this initiative was well-intentioned, but no one thought that this would be a serious problem for agriculture for decades. From a property point of view, it does not result in simple situations, and we owe this institution very complicated situations for the cultivation of the earth and for the preservation of the texture of the land. However, it should be added that the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian agriculture, has adapted to this situation as much as it could, because if we go out to the border, we see that the fields are cultivated, it is not apparent that, let's say, an undivided joint would be more neglected than the own-owned sign next to it. So we have found bridging solutions for both use, rental and agricultural subsidies, but these are not definitive solutions, of course. So the problem remained, and after 2010, the government of national affairs began to abolish this undivided common property. The solution at the time, which is in effect now, is actually a longer-term model, but perhaps the time has come and the economic society is in a financial position to be a faster solution now. There are different, alarming examples of the situations that we are facing: 300 owners, say on 100 hectares, 3 owners on 1 hectare, or 303 owners on 10 hectares. So there's a hillside next to Lake Balaton that used to be hit by different owners. Now there are 300 owners, and they can't cultivate them, they can't agree on anything; they can't be measured, they can't be used. The area turned into a jungle. So, unfortunately, there are some. In the meantime, many owners have disappeared, died, moved away. This is a serious problem for those who want to farm on their land. That is why this proposal is timely. Now a large part of the owners or their immediate descendants are still alive, and thus it is possible to establish a personal relationship between those who want to farm, and between those who may already be divorced, they sell their property or gold crown. [[15.20]] I also thought it was important to say this because Mr László Varga, who, by the way, expressed very remarkable thoughts, and I think that this applies to everyone who commented, he said that he had to wait ten years in this case. I say that ten years have not gone by without work, because there is still a national programme to eliminate undivided common property. I note only in parentheses: the MSZP did not deal with this problem at the time, it exceeded the capacity of other previous governments. Here, perhaps, it is worth taking a very short historical overview, because this programme was actually one of the most important interventions in Hungary to land ownership in the post-2010 period, i.e. after the change of government. We know that there was a land for farmers! The rental part of the program, there was land sales, but this land surveying process is still taking place today. The share extends to the undivided common in the field of land publishing, i.e. smaller circles. There were also EU negotiations and negotiations here, by the way. The philosophy of this program until 2012 was, therefore, to add a long time ago, that, where requested in this category, the state would measure the land. It will be very instructive that out of the approximately two million hectares affected by this current programme, only one million hectares have been requested to be measured. So there's a part that's either uninterested or good for him right now. He didn't ask for it. The state took responsibility for the measurement costs and the whole procedure itself. Now, even at this one million hectares, the numbers are in scale at some 30 percent, the National Earth Fund has requested a survey, because the task was to help the undivided community disappear where there is any small part of the state, so that the landowners and owners can get a real measured area. Many even stepped back, since in parentheses it is to put it there that some people have a good undivided common. It's good for someone who still has the right rent, good for someone who doesn't know who else's land is, let's say, missing, not found, deceased. It is welcome that, at 120 years, there will be a limit to assuming that our fellow countryman is no longer in the ranks of the living. Now there are many deceased partners whose territory is so - called unclaimed, others cultivate it, or perhaps they do not. It has already been said here, but it cannot be emphasized enough that some 35 thousand procedures have already been completed at about one million hectares and the land has been released to 170,000 owners. This is an extremely large number, and it is part of the fact that these owners are very important, because they actually do farming, and they also urged that they have their own territory, so that they can now manage it independently and do not have to adapt to others. This is a serious achievement even if, as I said, the owners have withdrawn in a number of places. It is absolutely important that the draft legislation continues to guarantee that anyone who wishes to terminate his property should have this opportunity. It's not a compulsion, it's an opportunity. How detailed this legislation is... Unfortunately, our fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, has not been present to ask very important and useful questions. I believe that these regulations are essentially affected and can be answered by the wallet. However, we must be aware that a law, a law, cannot be too detailed. The implementing regulations are not for nothing. There is a level of regulation in Parliament and there is a regulatory level below it, where details need to be addressed. One is the government's job, the regulation is the ministry's job, but we have to decide on the law, the main lines. Moreover, since these are very complex situations of life, very complex ownership, I would not be surprised if there was still a need to change in the light of practical experience. I think it's useful in all these complicated cases, by the way. There may have been a number of points that I would like to respond to and concern the period 2010-2018, for example, that the Land Traffic Act is a complicated, difficult procedure and the rest. I wouldn't say that it's insane, Congressman István Apáti. [[Dr. István Apáti: I didn't say that!]] It's right there in that land traffic law every single procedure. His social debate lasted a year, and I was in the room when Jobbik complained that Hungarian speculators were not protected from the land with sufficient force from the land traffic law and related legislation. Mr President, these complex procedures are precisely because each step has its own guarantee and publicity element. Obviously, it is not easy to go through it, but it is possible to eliminate the undivided joint today, sell land, and change land. The procedures can be accelerated, and this proposal is useful from the point of view of setting a separate procedure for the Ptk. and the current rule system of the land law, but we must always look at how we can stop speculation. I do not believe that what you have said as an excuse can be used even in the timely revision of the earth traffic law, since the world is changing compared to the situation in which it is living, it has passed since the adoption of the earth traffic law. These can obviously be evaluated, and the wallet has, by the way, put forward proposals concerning the Land Traffic Act. But it is certain that the procedures found in the legislation, as I have mentioned, are not designed by chance, on the basis of international examples, EU judicial practice, the experience of other states and in the light of Hungarian relations. So, as I said, this draft is useful, timely, and hopefully simplifies the procedure and accelerates it. I do not believe that the procedure would be quick in every case, because where there are three owners, it may be faster, even sure, but where there are three hundred owners, and they have never been able to agree in twenty years, it is possible that the possibility and good intentions of the law alone will not lead to the agreement being reached the day after tomorrow, and the undivided joint will cease to exist. In any case, the proposal ensures the achievement of the most important objectives, and here I agree with the speaker of the LMP that we can preserve the good texture of the land, the potential for cultivation and good environmental conditions. It is important that every land has its owner, tenant, tenant, user, and it is also very important that every land has a specific owner. After all, the specific property, the specific farmer or owner outside the range of farmers can only be the one who ensures that the land as a national treasure remains in sufficiently good condition and that it can be taken care of by the owner, user, beneficiary, other person affected with regard to the land. This will make the ground conditions in Hungary more transparent, cleaner, and I hope that the positive attitude that has been formulated with regard to the legislation will enable it to be adopted by the largest possible parliamentary majority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-05-100	Thank you very much. Mr Schmuck Erzsébet will speak again. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-05-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my keynote speech, I made it clear that LMP agreed with the purpose of the draft law. I would now like to focus attention on sustainability aspects. In particular, I would like to introduce new aspects in the context of the smallest size of areas, the design and state expropriation of real estate. We believe that a very different approach should be taken for land and forests. The draft law is 6. Paragraph 5 of Article 5 contains a rubber rule on new real estates that develop as a separate plot of land, that they must be suitable for normal agricultural and forestry farming. This is a very important point, the content of which should also be formulated at a legislative level. Of course, the smallest size is an important question, but it is necessary to record that the property must be accessible from a road registered with an independent localization number. The absence of this can later cause a major problem that is better avoided at the beginning. In this context, Article 10 is replaced by the following: § (1) is considered necessary so that partners do not have the right, but must have the right to approach the property. If one of the new continents cannot be approached from an existing route, they should be obliged to choose a new route. The development of the new road is their joint obligation according to their ownership. Deal with it in advance, because this is important in order to avoid later debates. [[15.30]] It should also be laid down in law that the width of the new roads must be defined at least 12 metres. In addition, it is also important to lay down legal restrictions on the shape of the property, at least according to our experts. It may seem extreme at first, but the practice can bring many strange solutions, so it is important to determine whether narrow stripes are irregular or long. It is therefore appropriate to lay down that real estate should preferably be divided by parallel and perpendicular straight lines and that, taking into account natural boundaries, they should preferably be rectangular. It is appropriate to specify against the formation of belt parcels that the average length of the property may not be more than four times their average width. We also consider it important to state that if this is not possible because of the shape of the property, the property should be considered not to be shared. The draft law is 11. §2 of the Act sets out the rules on the minimum size of real estate after sharing. We consider it important that, in the case of agricultural land, the law does not make a distinction according to cultivation or only on the basis of very prudent professional arguments. In the long term, it may not be possible to ensure that a property currently registered as a garden or vineyard will not be used as a ploughing or lawn, but may also have the reverse of this. If we only allow smaller real estate sizes to be created according to the cultivation arm, it may also lead to abuse. The LMP proposes that the minimum area to be established in any cultivation branch be 5000 square metres, so that the average width of the area must be at least 40 metres and accessible by road registered as a separate local map number. In closed gardens, we think it would be acceptable to create 2,500 square meters of land accessible from the road. For the sake of sustainable forest management, we consider it important not to create fragmented forest areas. Our proposal is that the smallest forest area that can be divided should be 5 hectares. In the case of a smaller forest area, the State shall abolish the undivided common ownership by expropriation. We must use the elimination of undivided common land to enforce sustainability. We recommend that public expropriation should be the solution used to eliminate undivided common property in a protected natural area, in the case of both forest and agricultural land. It is also proposed that protection zones and Natura 2000 areas, as well as all forest areas in which the State has ownership and cannot be shared, should also be used as a means of eliminating undivided common ownership. In our opinion, ensuring the ownership of the state in protected natural areas, protection zones and Natura 2000 areas can provide the most secure guarantees for proper, natural-friendly farming. Dear Minister, I say to you: we trust that you will accept the proposals of the LMP, and take into account them a way to resolve this highlighted national issue, which will take account of sustainability aspects to the extreme. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-05-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr István Apáti has also applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-103	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to respond to ex-minister Fazekas, to be precise. If I've misunderstood, I'm sorry. I didn't say the whole land code was crazy. I have claimed that this process is insanely difficult, extremely administrative, and even for those who are competent or familiar with land affairs, it is difficult to be transparent in many cases. But speaking of which, I'd like to be more specific if I have to, and I'd like to repeat what you said earlier. In fact, I consider the role of local land committees to be key, because they are the ones who know not only the area, but also the persons, the landowners, better than the county land office, the district land office or the county agricultural chamber, or more than the lawyer making the deed. Therefore, they would be the most effective way to filter out possible purchases, buy-outs, acquisitions, and therefore, based on them, it would be safe to reduce the number of these stations by relying on them once again, and I have just told you in detail and the procedural deadlines. Several proposals were made here by the lead speaker of the LMP. Just without the need for completeness: in the forest, the 5 hectares as a minimum measure of space, if I understand correctly, I feel a little strong, quite a leap, if you look at the internal proportions. At present, the area minimum is 3000 square metres, which is raised to 1 hectare at the plough, meadow, pasture, forest. At present, the minimum area is 1 hectare and 30 metres in length, according to which the forest inspectorate gives a separate forest number to an area. The forest still has 1 hectare, the length of 30 metres, the tiller, meadow and pasture would increase from 3000 square metres to 1 hectare; this is a large threefold increase. Even if this is the only basis, it is not justified to increase the territorial minimum to more than 3 hectares in the case of forests or more than 2 hectares in the case of forests. The 5 hectares are a push-up to the bar, under which many will be trapped and would cause far more harm than justified, so I consider this to be considered in this way, and I think that this proposal should be reduced. Here, the word "owning" has been repeated several times and the term "recapture" has been added. It is possible to argue about this, perhaps in my taste too, let's say that the terms "salvation" or "statutory redemption" would have been a little more accurate or professional, but I do not want to open a separate debate in this. However, here, before expropriation, it would be worth dealing with a rarely used legal institution, a sale for public interest purposes, where the State does not acquire ownership of the property with more solid force, coercive force, but as a result of a fair bargaining process, which does not involve a transaction between individuals but between individuals and states. For you to consider the Mi Hazank Movement, Minister, that for areas whose size, total territory, reaches the territorial minimum, but none of the ownership shares in it reaches the minimum required for the particular cultivation sector, it would obviously be worth considering the sale of public interest over a year, not at the same time, because of its cost implications, the state could make a fair offer in these areas. And then, that the total area is now less than 10 hectares or more than 10 hectares of space, so that it would then be sold with a special tender or non-application, let us say, to a particular owner, that is another issue, but it may be easier to cut the Gordian knot in these cases, or to use the attempt of this sale of public interest in the case of a certain number of owners and very fragmented ownership shares. In many cases, we are well aware that personal conflicts prevent the elimination of undivided common property, they will continue, many would prefer to sell it to the state than to one of their angerers. Then, if, with or without a tender, one of the grudges will buy it from the state, then Uncle Laci and Aunt Mary may slap their heads in anger, but it would be easier to pass through in many cases to eliminate or eliminate this form of property in those areas. In the case of a proportion of individual owners below the territorial minimum, it is considered appropriate to distinguish between the property of close relatives and the property of non-close relatives, so it would be worth treating family property separately even in the case of a proportion below the mandatory minimum. It has been said here how important the approach to these areas is. Indeed, this is true, and we personally consider the right of slavery to be far more effective than the construction of roads at all costs. On the one hand, a reduction in the actual area of education is a reduction in road design, administrative and extremely costly, in all respects cheaper and much simpler to agree on in the law of slavery. The fact that at least one remedy, no more, we also believe that it is necessary to ensure that it is not only in relation to the full division process. I know this is a difficult issue, and it would be necessary to amend the civil order by a separate, exceptional, short-term procedure, but it is only in this way and only in this way that the government can protect the constitutionally based attacks that it is likely to receive on this proposal. [[15.40]] In addition to the best intentions, the Constitutional Court's possible negative decision will lead to an even more complex situation after the termination proceedings which have already been initiated or have been carried out under this law. Many people here have been concerned with the question of farmers' certification. This is indeed a catchy issue, a difficult problem, it would be worth considering that there is no need to be a farmer who acquires property with such title, i.e. by means of an undivided termination. Perhaps one of the solutions could be to adapt the conditions of becoming a farmer to this legislation, because in fact, in itself, it would in many cases preclude the abolition of this form of ownership by those who are not currently in the farmer's register and who otherwise do not derive income from agriculture, do not have a higher education degree, did not obtain a, gold-cage farmer's qualification, this is not planned in the near future or in the further future, but in view of the acquisition of this title, they may become farmers. And then I think we cut this Gordian knot relatively fortunately and easily. However, I have not heard any arguments that I would like to make here in the remaining time, and this is a question of adapting to tax and tax rules or of appropriate tax and tax regulation. I am thinking that this is likely to happen very often, that one of the owners will receive a larger proportion of the share in principle compared to the share of the ownership at the starting point, and will accordingly measure a much larger proportion. Here, in practice, there will be a sale or exchange of current traditional titles, but the entry in the Land Office will not be an exchange based on the elimination of undivided common property or the elimination of undivided common property, according to the law, but simply the elimination of undivided common property. Even this may be good, but there is practically a sale or a swap transaction there, because one buys it from the other, a stronger, better able, more capital-powered farmer buys it from others, there is virtually obvious that there will be a sale, not for free, not as a gift to each other, let's say, apart from close relatives. Although, if you look at this, giving gifts among close relatives can also be part of such a legal arrangement. And then we'll have to deal with it from a tax and tax point of view. In general, the seller, if there is a difference between the acquisition and the sale price, pays a tax and the party acquiring the ownership will pay a refundable transfer fee, in principle. I think it would be worth being generous here and introducing a tax and tax exemption in the case of acquisition of this title, all the more so, because I am almost certain that it will not bring as much revenue to the state as it will cost the employees involved in this task if such very complicated threads are to be unravelled. Especially if, to put it mildly, there will be a creative indication of the possible consideration for the additional share of ownership. And then again, let me bring one of my, let's call it, my sting, which is linked to the trades, that at this moment there is an absolute lack of coherence in the case of a land law and an exchange of property for the purposes of the Siya Law. The land law is acceptable, and I think that this regulation is in the right direction, but the definition of Siya law is unduly restrictive, and in many cases it is the double levy that is to be charged to those who do not crouch, but switch from economic necessity within five years. Otherwise, this should be resolved independently of this law, Minister, because this is still causing a lot of problems. A person undertakes not to sell, receive tax exemption or exchange within five years, but according to the Sija law, this does not constitute an exchange of property because it does not concern land directly adjacent to it, but rather, let's say, only in a given settlement, it does not have to be approved, but within five years a double fee is payable by those who agree to such a trade. Now, this will also come up very often in the event of this undivided joint end of property. So not only should we simply settle the tax and tax exemption, honourable Members, because at the moment this is not included, but we also need to read the curse of double taxation off farmers' heads, because in itself this circumstance will very much hinder terminations and discourage farmers from going into such transactions. And then we have not yet talked about some of the specialties relating to forests, which are partly linked to this law, and in some cases it causes enormous practical problems even in the case of 1/1 sales, regardless of the undivided common property cancellations. Neither the land register nor, in many cases, the plans drawn up by forest control authorities every 10 years, or it is not certain whether the forest farmer of that area is a forest farmer. With a multi-use agreement? A contract of engagement? Farmer's lease? And sales contracts are concluded in such a way that it is late to find out that forest owners buy forest areas with leases, which may be considered valuable, since the land office is currently not obliged to indicate, nor is there any place in the real estate register, and the plant plan includes only the fact that the farmer of the forest is a code number and a person by name. But it doesn't say what the title of this is anymore. And even though the seller then takes a warranty and no lawsuit, no liability, no claim, and then the new buyer can run to the courthouse, his chances are roughly zero. It is very, very serious, with ten million items, where appropriate, that one can make such a move, so that often the seller is not badly motivated, because he himself did not know that a particular actor has a lease on forest farmers in these areas. Now, that's a combination of undivided joint ownership ending, and that's a very complicated legal situation. So let's try to sort this out under one smoke, and I can offer you this with the greatest kindness. It's clear he's gonna be hurting interests, inevitably hurting interests. I say, too, that this issue must be touched firmly, because this problem has become so much worse, the share of property has been so fragmented that it is impossible to measure the level of regulation with a pharmacy scale and a laser meter. However, compared to what has now been said here, significant refinements can and must be carried out, since there is no need to let too much of the remedies, that is also true; there is the sanctity of private property, but there is also the fact that 12 square meters of forest property is shocking, incomprehensible, unsustainable; it is even a small living room, and it cannot be called forest property with the greatest imagination, and there is one in Hungary today. And as the successions take place, it gets even worse, and it's gonna get even more circumstantial. However, I would like to conclude with what I said earlier, with the fact that they are doing a great deal of favour, and they are very helpful to farmers, Minister, believe me if, in comparison to the current legislation, in the case of sales within undivided common property and exchanges between the undivided commons, there is a guarantee that there will be no suspension or approval in the land law. They're doing you a huge favor, it's gonna be a very serious preliminary measure and preliminary assistance, and it's gonna make agreements and agreements considerably easier if this gate opens right now, when the procedure has to start under this law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-05-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. We've reached the end of an opposition round. I'm asking if someone would like to make a two-minute statement. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. We will open the next round of opposition. Mr György Czerván is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2020-05-05-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Minister. Dear fellow Members, If I have been paying attention, there has been a general debate on the proposal for more than two hours; otherwise, it is a very substantive debate, but let me say that before I say my thoughts on the bill, allow me a brief historical look back for clarity or, if you will, for a clearer view. Without professional grandeur, we can safely say that the land and property structure is at the heart of social, political and economic issues in Europe, even in any country in the world. In Hungary property policy is more complex and diverse for historical reasons than in many other countries of the West, which have experienced social and economic development over the centuries. The debate around the lands in our country has a history of about millennia. At the same time, thanks to unfortunate historical twists, the Hungarian ownership structure still has a number of characteristics that hinder competitiveness and development. Crowds' access to land in Hungary started with about 150-200 years late civilization compared to Western countries, and precisely the laws of April 1848 abolishing the feudal dependence of peasants on the landlord. The settlement then stabilized the agricultural development framework in 1848 for a long time, and the land reform linked to the name of István Nagyatádi Minister for Agriculture wanted to give a new impetus to the changes. Unfortunately, their political background deal did not allow the original well-meaning ideas to be fulfilled, so it was only after World War II, in 1945-47, that the mass distribution of agricultural population could begin. As a result, severe social and property polarisation has decreased, while the number of holdings around 5 acres of less than the lower value of the viability threshold and therefore less economically advantageous size has increased. This latter circumstance has been able to provide a basis for the violent collectivisation processes following the communist takeover, which have basically served one purpose: to deprive rural people of land as a basic agricultural means of production and property. Even after the change of regime, it can be concluded that the transformation of land ownership and use conditions is one of the most politicised areas of social conditions whose regulation was to be dealt with by all political systems with a high priority. This marked both the compensation processes and the efforts to break down the cooperative structure, which laid the foundations for the agricultural policy of the 1990s. Mistakes made at the time, willfully or unwittingly, have now become a problem that is one of the biggest obstacles to the competitiveness of agriculture. Dear Parliament, From 2010, the government of national affairs has consistently seen land affairs as a fundamental issue of national strategic importance. Following the end of 2007, the independent National Land Fund Management Organisation was re-established as of 1 September 2010. From 2011 the lease of land owned by the state was launched by tender to the farmers! In the framework of a programme. In 2013, the Land Traffic Act was adopted, which aims to protect this national treasure in the long term and to keep it in domestic control. And from the second half of 2015 the land for farmers! As a continuation of the programme, it was possible to purchase land owned by the State by means of an auction, which provided farmers with an unprecedented number and volume of land compared to the previous one. However, there are still a number of obstacles to land policies that, as has been said, constitute a barrier to the competitiveness of agriculture and have been unsolved for several decades before the agricultural government. The solution to these problems is now inevitable, because they are a daily problem for farmers, an obstacle to their development. The most important of these is the elimination of undivided common property in the fields as a coercive community. Undivided common land ownership is undoubtedly one of the biggest obstacles to the development of the Hungarian agriculture. According to data in Hungary, there are 1 million 60,000 plots of land in undivided joint ownership on some 2 million 400 thousand hectares. The real ownership approach in these areas is very difficult to achieve. In practice, undivided common property is the barrier to land use. Another disadvantage of agri-economic financing is that owners are unable to invest or use the area as bank credit coverage with reduced value. My fellow Members from agriculture, but representatives of almost any rural constituency, have met and met regularly in their host hours with countless extreme cases, where either the landowner or the land-using voters ask us for help, who seek a solution that is a way out, behind which is the fair intention of farming the land. The size of the problem is well characterised by the fact that about a quarter of a million applications for the sharing of more than 50,000 land areas were received in the distribution programme launched in 2012. I think it is right and important that the agricultural government has assessed the experience of the past period and has presented a comprehensive proposal for a solution to the Parliament. It is a good course that the bill covers all undivided common-owned land, regardless of its origin. I also benefit from the recognition that it leaves the decisions on sharing to the owners concerned, since, first and foremost, the full implementation of the ownership will must be respected in terms of both the opening of the division, the way and direction of the division or the design of the roads. I consider the settlement procedure to be a fair method, because the draw currently applied in its absence cannot, by its very nature, meet any legitimate ownership or professional expectations. A customer-friendly and fast process-promoting approach by the state to ensure the data required for sharing and the computer distribution program capable of depicting the results of the sharing. From here on, it really depends only on the intention of the partners concerned to successfully obtain their property as a separate property in cooperation. Property, especially land, means not only rights, but also responsibility. Just as a farmer cannot leave his livestock, neither can he leave his land, or if he does, he will suffer its consequences. The public credibility of the real estate register requires that the data contained therein be accurate and up-to-date. This is true of the owner's personal or address data and is also true of the property data. If they do start sharing by using incorrect data, they cannot pass on the consequences to others. Of course, there are no obstacles to starting work by clarifying the real data and then starting the sharing process. The bill does not remain indebted to the guarantees of the minority owners. It records that each person's earnings must be paid, i.e. he can't get less than the share of his property unless he expressly agrees to do so. Long-term functionality is also ensured by the requirement for land to be suitable for agricultural farming, thus avoiding the dangers of the formation of belt parcels that create truly lifeless relationships. I consider it a forward-looking element of the bill to include opportunities for owners for estate consolidation. Such is the possibility of buying out at the same time as sharing to the other owner or the possibility of exchanging with the sharing partner. It is important that the owners have the opportunity to use the land formed by the undivided abolition of the land as a member of the estate with the other land already in existence. Finally, it is worth mentioning the final form of public engagement, i.e. the possibility of expropriation. With regard to lands with a population of hundreds, there is no common ground for progress. [[16.00]] Such lands virtually capture their owners, which only the active involvement of the state can provide a solution that enables partners to achieve adequate value at the same time and ensure that the land is properly cultivated. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a few sentences about the other major element of the bill, the question of the dead souls. We can also take a heavy burden off farmers by solving this problem. Because of the unattainable owners and the failed legacy procedures, farmers have so far had to carry out serious administrative tasks that have distracted them from farming and their time. The proposal can lead these properties back to the land market in an effective way. I propose monitoring the results and, on the basis of experience, examining the possibility of extending them to other non-earth properties. Dear Parliament, In my opinion, without exaggeration, we can say that the bill we are discussing is historic for decades. I believe that it will improve the competitiveness of our agriculture in a noticeable way, and I therefore ask you to support its adoption. At the same time, I would like to ask the Government, Minister, with respect that we do not consider the task to be completed, because the measures that have just begun and their success are closely linked to the issue of land consolidation, as well as the problem of the regulation of generational change and agricultural inheritance. In the course of a few decades, failure to do so brings back the problems of ownership policy to the domestic agricultural sector. The direction we have set now is good, so let's move on to our goals. We look forward to the amendments, we will discuss them, and I hope that we will make a positive decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar has applied for another speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Slowly, perhaps as the debate closes, I can say that every single speaker, no matter which faction he sits in, has said that he can support the objectives of the law, and he broadly agrees that this issue must be dealt with. The question is how well the proposal before us is capable of doing so and at what price it is intended to do so. This reminds me that we have received a letter from Minister, which summarises the problems that go hand in hand with the adoption of this legislation, and I do not say that all of these can be avoided if we want to solve the problem of undivided common land in Hungary at all times, but it certainly draws attention to it and is capable of thinking about which points might be subject to a degree of amendment, a way of amendment that might reduce the harm. The draft violates the Fundamental Law, at least the opposition speakers agreed. We hope that this problem can be solved by solving this conflict with the Fundamental Law and not committing it. The draft does not provide any protection for those remaining in the minority in the course of the decision. The draft discriminates against partners wishing to keep the land in common ownership. The draft may cause further disruptions on the ground market by giving a new legal definition of the purchase price of the land. The draft is contrary to the Administrative Service Fee Act; let's say this is still manageable. The draft worsens the situation of land-use operators by setting new administrative obligations. This could probably be difficult to avoid, but it can certainly be refined. The draft legitimizes the destruction of the public credibility of the real estate register. In this regard, too, I hope that, if nothing else, there will be reassuring concrete changes and changes in the implementing regulation. That is why the letter writer and, in part, I believe that the draft is not suitable for decision, because the regulations indicated therein are essential for the application of the law under the draft, but we cannot know these regulations. This is generally true of the laws before us in general, but in this respect I considered it important to emphasise this even more than this law, because indeed, the extent to which this law will violate the interests of those concerned and the profit that is expected of those involved in agriculture. So in order to judge the ratio, and to make a good decision, we opposition representatives in particular need some answers from the last few hours. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-05-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Minister if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-109	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for the debate, your comments and your attitude towards this serious socio-economic problem. I must say to you, there was a word in me the whole time I listened to the debate: it was worth it. It was worth a lot of negotiations, it was worth the superhuman work, it was worth all the debate that we had within the Ministry, together with social organisations and professional organisations, in order to crystallise a solution that will stand the constitutional test and yet solve the situation of leading the common undivided ownership out of Hungarian land traffic. After all, we all know and we all feel and thank you for confirming that, yes, the problem is real, and the problem must be solved. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 5 May 2020 125/2. Number Parliamentary Diary And we see which side of the problem we are on depends on, as my fellow Member here at the end quoted the letter received from MOS on this issue several times, but not everyone wants this issue to be removed and this form of property, because there are benefits for certain social groups, certain farmers. This must also be taken into account so that they can come out of this with the slightest harm, because it is not possible for them to gain an unauthorized advantage so that others cannot take advantage of the opportunity they otherwise have, and someone can take advantage of it. And here's the answer to the question of your second speech. That is why we need to find the narrow way to find a solution by standing the test of constitutionality, because we are talking about 2.4 million hectares of land and 3.5 million people involved. So I fully agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, when he said that it is more than a matter of professional policy, this is also a very serious social issue. That's right, because 3.5 million people are involved, that's a lot. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] When my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar started speaking, he said that this is a very complex problem and the solution to it; indeed, it is very diverse, and we have to imagine a process, because a few weeks ago the estate policy package was here, and the solution has already begun, and now there is the possibility of undivided joint deployment, and what was missed by many, and what was raised by my fellow Members, and then the question of agricultural inheritance, and the solution of the issues that foster generational change, is also coming. So all of them are interlinked processes, the end of which is that there will be a competitive Hungarian agriculture with clean ownership, with the pregnant legacy of the past, because we cannot make our history impossible, we cannot undo, we need to deal with the situation. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, said that this is the law of contradictions, that the existence of a farmer is not a condition when taking this; yes, it does not matter because there are 170 thousand farmers in Hungary, and this issue concerns 3.5 million people. There is such a difference between the two, there would be such an exclusion that it could not be a good solution, so that the anomaly must be dissolved and based on the fact that there is a right acquired here, there is an acquired right, and that it has the right to have this property available, but it has not yet been able to access it, because it did not even know where it is within the board. That is why we have resolved this question. [[16.10]] And then he doesn't count on the property max, asks, and he re-imposes all this question to us. I have to say that the problem is so heavy that it causes a much smaller problem with one hectare, five hectares or three hectares to exceed the maximum amount of land if this issue arises than not to solve this problem with it. Because, after all, the competitiveness of agriculture and clean ownership are the main things. Technically, I have to say that the maximum amount of property can only be exceeded until the joint elimination of the undivided. No longer, only until the undivided joint elimination, and of course, there is a greater interest in this being the case. In addition, three years ago, the person who initiated the division had to be the owner, so there can be no abuse, so it cannot be that he wants to increase the maximum of 300 hectares by buying himself in there by about a tenth of a hectare. I would like to reassure all my opposition fellow Members who have raised the need for an implementing regulation, of course. I'll let you know he'll be here in time. We undertake that it must and must enter into force by 1 January, as from 1 January 2021 this mechanism, this process, must work. Several raised the question of the land pricing mechanism. I confess that we have decided to do this because the land sales of NFA are taking place along this procedure, and since it will be largely based on this office to carry out this whole process, we will also carry out this sale according to their mechanism. The burden of the land office will be reduced, since there is no need to use a surveyor in this system, as the program itself draws, designates, and the hired lawyer present can authenticate and initiate the registration. So the administration of the whole process can also be simplified indefinitely. In supporting young farmers, I would like to suggest to you that you know very well how important the question of young farmers is in agriculture. We will therefore wish to deal with the generation change separately in a law. But let us also help that young man at last [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Woman?]] the little inherited area in that area, but right now, he doesn't even know where he is, so let him start his farming. So it's already helpful to know where he is, if he can stop at the end of his land, if he embraces his sweetheart or his child, and he says, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Or embrace your husband!]] that, yes, we start our lives from here, that's the basis, then it's a force, a spiritual charge that I think we need to live with, and an important thing with which... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Or she hugs her husband, which is most natural, because the classic family model is this, and it's a very important story. I fully agree with my fellow Member, László Varga, that it is much more than a policy issue. I do not dispute that it raises constitutional questions, but I say that we are going on in the field that stands the test of constitutionality. We've talked a lot about it, because we're talking about the sanctity of property, where it is, where we can go through it without violating constitutional rights. All I can say, in fact, is that we are on the path that can stand up to constitutional issues, otherwise we will not find a solution, so we will not be able to lead it out. The problem of the simple majority, the protection of the minority issues are very important to us, too, but the truth is that we had to find such an effective method, we had to find that ratio, and since the Greeks it is 50 plus 1, which is a crucial issue on these issues, with which we can move forward effectively and quickly. We talked about the land price issue here. Let me give you some alarming examples of what we are finally dealing with, because it has not been said in this House, and let me give you a living example. Country, field: 8.5 hectares, 1643 owners. Think about it, farming like this. Vitnyed, this is a meadow: 9 hectares, 1209 owners. Fisherman's plough: 52 hectares, 852 owners. Kóny, one plow and pasture in one: 10 hectares, 955 owners. Now, let's imagine this estate structure. So I think there's a serious social need that we need to resolve. Now you understand the gravity of the problem that we have to go on and the difficulty that we have to go on. I say to my fellow Member, Agnes Vadai, that yes, you can see very well that there is a lot of personal conflict, because by the time we resolve this, by the time we find the place of this 1643 owner on 8.5 hectares, by the time someone can stand on the edge of the earth, and can even exercise their rights to either receive the money or the territory, so it is not a simple thing. And how many times they've tried to take possession, how many times there's been resistance, because they haven't found the dead grandmother's cousin in New Zealand to make a statement. So, after extremely complicated and extremely difficult regulations, we finally found a way that we might be able to solve it. And thank you very much for your statement that it contains forward-looking and debate-starting elements. From an opposition representative, such a statement is absolutely, very thanks. I look forward to the written questions, this is a standard method for us, and I promise that we will give professional answers, as we have done to the best of my knowledge and to the best of our knowledge. The question of valuation, which you raised, must be paid at least as much, so the minimum is set, and only more can be paid. And yes, the Development Bank is redesigning a borrowing opportunity that can help buy the land, because all of our goals are to make it easier for the parties involved to access their property and to develop as much as possible the properties that farmers can live with, because we still see the land in the best place and the safest place in the hands of farmers. I would like to thank Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck with all due respect for her support for the abolition of this form of property and for the LMP's assistance in this regard. In order to suggest that the procedure should be free, I must say that freeness is state aid from the point of view of EU law, which would therefore correspond to a prohibited State aid, and this cannot be allowed. So that's why we had to figure out the minimum amount that we didn't burden the farming community with, not as a deterrent, but as a means of helping the apparatus to do its job. I think we've been able to measure the standard that's right for everyone. Several raised the issue of ingestion and the bad association that belongs to it. I would like to indicate that the XXXIX of 1908. That's how they put it in the law. It's an old legal term. We absolutely don't insist. If there's a consensus that we can use, and we go along, we're open to it, and we welcome it, and then we use it. Our lawyers and experts have found this term appropriate, which is why it's here at the moment. I say to my fellow Member of the Father that he is right, that this form of property has caused extraordinary damage, and his proposal to amend the land law, as a preparation for this law, I can say that he will be able to do so practically from 2021, so from 2021, what he has proposed can be created exactly this way, without any agreement or suspension. [[16.20]] I say to my fellow Member, Mr Steinmetz, that it takes time for a good job. I started out with yes, it was worth it, because it really took a long time to negotiate. We've got concepts, lots of them. We had to reject concepts. We've worked according to a new methodology, we've developed new procedures to make this work. Who's filing the law? I indicate that on behalf of the government, it is always submitted by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, and as Minister, I am the author of the law. It's a simple technical issue, so there's no ulterior motive, and there's no ulterior content. It's the procedure. I'd like to indicate the succession here, too. We will be able to help you with all the questions that he raised, as we will be able to help you with the agricultural inheritance, because even in the law that will promote generational change, which will be made in 2021, there will be answers to the questions that have been raised here more than one. Several people asked what that word meant. It means that we can avoid the pants parcel, the belt parcel, and really determine the types and sizes of property that can be cultivated. Why 1 acre? Why are 0.5 and 0.3 in the law? I could put it this way that, after the various negotiations, we decided to do so. We are open to the proposal that if a good reason can be given to justify why the number is different, we will consider why it should be different. But after consulting professional organisations, this compromise proposal, I could put it this way, so we decided that it should be 1 hectare for arable land, because we must be honest, we may not imagine agriculture for the future at 0.3 hectares. Therefore, efforts should be made to minimise the fragmentation in order to obtain revenue at some level. I firmly state that we have a system that will tell us for sure how many hectares of land there are, so our registration system will allow us to say this precisely, that this is the case. The question of land movement within the family will also be on the agricultural heritage issue, and as my fellow Member Erzsébet Schmuck has brought it up, I fully support it. So, to support intra-family exchanges, mergers, unifications, I think it's standard. So it can't be, it's anti-family, and I've got all my guts to protest that it doesn't. So it is perfectly legitimate and legitimate that brothers and sisters can agree among themselves in subsized areas, and they can convey to each other that because of family heritage, emotional filling, simply in the strength of identity formation and obviously because of economic strength, the family can preserve the fatherly, grandfatherly heritage that has been brought to the family for decades or centuries. To secure road connections, that's natural. I would like to say that this programme, which my colleagues have drawn up and made available, addresses this issue, will automatically be deducted from everyone's territory if it is to be distributed. So you don't have to get angry, argue about how much you hand over, but you're going to organize the distribution in the first place by automatically picking off the area that we can use to pick the way out. So, obviously, the road must be secured. I am not afraid to give it to individuals or farmers and to help them, as I am still saying that farmers have the best place in the land, but in a protected area, with proper, strict state control, because, let's be honest, the state can take it back, hold it, but it will give it to the farmer for cultivation. And as in our previous package of laws it has already been shown that it is in the management of protected areas, who is responsible for farming, it is not worth taking back and it is not worth taking back into national park ownership, because it is very well cultivated, and 20 years has been a guarantee that it will work well. And if you don't, you really have to buy it back, you have to take it away, because it doesn't work properly, because sustainability, taking that aspect into account, really has to be a priority, because it's a limited animal from which there will never be more, the preservation of its value, and the maintenance of its productive capacity is also our respect and responsibility for future generations. Finally, I would like to thank you all for helping us with your comments, suggestions, amendments and written questions to clarify the even better nature of this law. By doing this and eliminating this socio-economic problem, which represents 3.5 million people, 2.4 million hectares of affected land, and we can lead out of the Hungarian legal order the common undivided ownership form, this is a historic moment in which it is good to share with you. Thank you very much for your work. Thank you.
u2020-05-05-110	I welcome my fellow Members and thank the Minister for his detailed rejoinder. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws necessary for the functioning of the crisis insurance system in agriculture until closure. The government referral is T/10308. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I'll give the floor to Minister, too.
u2020-05-05-111	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The most important element of the package of proposals before you is the CLXVIII 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. amendment of the law. The main objective of the amendment is to extend the toolbox of the agricultural risk management system that has been in place in Hungary since 2012 by a new risk management tool. Hungary has recognised, ahead of most EU countries, that the state plays an important role in agricultural risk management. Successful operation and protection of the economy also require new tools in agriculture, so we must also use forward-looking tools in the reconstruction work after the economic effects of the coronal virus epidemic. The first pillar of domestic agricultural risk management, which has undergone dynamic development since 2012, is the reformed agricultural compensation scheme, which provides State aid to compensate for the losses caused by adverse weather phenomena affecting crop production. The second pillar of risk management is the agricultural insurance premium, which also manages the damage caused by adverse weather conditions with rural development support for the fee for plant insurance contracts covering these damage. From 2018, the risk management toolkit has been expanded with a third pillar, a uniquely national ice mitigation system in the European Union, to reduce the hail damage of plants, and from which the whole of the national economy, not just agriculture, benefits from its operations financed by the compensation fund. In recent years, the agricultural sector has also faced a number of other challenges, such as milk crisis across the European Union, Russian embargo, regular recurrent animal diseases, avian influenza, swine fever, Escherichia coli epidemic and very serious bee mortality. These events have shown that, in addition to managing the weather risks of crop production, it is also necessary to address systemic crises resulting from external and unavoidable events occurring outside the producer's own fault. Therefore, the bill before this House proposes the creation of the fourth pillar of the proper and existing system, the introduction of the agricultural crisis insurance system, which will be able to provide effective assistance for livestock, in addition to managing weather risks. In addition to partly compensating for the loss of income caused by extreme weather phenomena affecting crop production, the scheme presented in the draft can be used to compensate in part for the loss of income resulting from other risks to livestock production and crop production, such as animal and plant diseases, market price decline, market loss, exchange rate changes or even the increase in costs incurred during production. [[16.30]] On the basis of the proposal, the tasks related to the crisis insurance system would be carried out by the Hungarian Treasury. Farmers may voluntarily join the scheme irrespective of their form of operation. Unlike agricultural compensation for more than ten years, participation in the scheme is therefore voluntary, but accession requires participation for a minimum period of three years. In order to compensate for the damage suffered by the producers, the crisis insurance fund managed by the Hungarian State Treasury provides cover. The system's own resource is the crisis insurance contribution paid by producers, but it is also possible to make other voluntary payments by non-state actors. The proposal lays down at a legal level that the system's own resources can only be used for crisis insurance compensation to farmers. The fair amount of crisis insurance shall be paid annually by the producer on the basis of his cultivated land or annual average number of animals, the exact amount of which shall be determined in an implementing regulation. When joining the scheme, the producer shall provide data on his income from agricultural activities during the three years preceding accession. The income shall be determined as the difference between all income generated from agricultural activity and the cost incurred in that activity. This will be based on the producer's closed accounting records. The detailed methodology for calculating income will be covered by the implementing rules. In the year in which the farmer's agricultural income falls below the average income of the previous three years by more than 30%, this reference income may require crisis insurance compensation. That's the whole point of the proposal, General. The scheme, including the other leg of the financial resources for payments, will be targeted support for this programme in the future in the rural development programme. Thus, the compensation for producers can consist of 30% of own resources and 70% of EU funds that can be obtained through national co-financing. The amount of the crisis insurance compensation shall not exceed 69,9 per cent of the reduction in the income shown by the producer. It is important that the scheme does not, of course, qualify for compensation after a loss of income resulting from the artificial creation of circumstances in order to obtain an advantage contrary to the objectives of the agricultural activity, a change in the size of the holding or an advantage contrary to the objectives of the crisis insurance system. In the event that, on the basis of claims for compensation submitted by producers, the total amount of compensationable producer income would not be covered in the scheme, the level of compensation should be reduced proportionately for all producers entitled to compensation in that year. In order to avoid a significant reduction in the amount of compensation that the producer may obtain as a result of the reallocation, a supplementary payment may be required. The farmer connected to the system is only related to the Hungarian Treasury. You will only have to comply with your request for accession, your data, your crisis insurance contribution, your compensation application for the crisis insurance body and your electronic interface. The crisis insurance body may also use the data and monitoring algorithms of the Agricultural Economic Research Institute to control the loss of income. The start of the agricultural crisis insurance scheme is expected at the beginning of 2021, following the emergence of implementing arrangements and the preparation of the organisations involved in the scheme. Based on the many years of operational experience of the existing risk management instruments and based on sound professional proposals, the Agricultural Ministry is open to the continuous improvement of the new system to be introduced. To sum up, with the legislative package before this House, the government is declaringly planning to introduce in the European Union a risk management tool that encourages self-care by producers and provides a systemic solution to the partial relief of producer crises. The introduction of the new system will help to preserve and increase the income-generating capacity of agriculture, thereby strengthening the economies of our rural areas. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the basis of the reasons set out above, to make proposals and to accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-112	Thank you, Minister. Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to György Czerván, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-05-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The agricultural sector is perhaps the most threatened economic sector by various risk factors. These risk factors include market risks, particularly price fluctuations, but also exchange rate changes or even adverse changes in oil prices. Such a risk factor is production risks, i.e. falling behind in terms of rapidly developing production techniques, plant and animal health risks, which are unfortunately well known. There are political risks, such as the Russian embargo, or free trade agreements, Mercosur Convention, natural risks, extreme weather, it is enough to think about this year only because of the lack of precipitation, frost damage, sandstorms, there was a lot of things in the first part of the year, and I didn't even talk about the corona virus epidemic. It is increasingly common to observe conflicting extremes in a given area, whether there is internal water, flooding or drought at the same time. The important role of agriculture in this level of risk and society's well-being calls for measures to protect it. Dear House, As you know, Hungary has been a pioneer in building a public risk management system in the European Union, and we now have a highly developed risk management toolkit compared to the Member States of the European Union. The domestic agricultural risk management instruments, which have been reformed since 2012, and which have continued to develop since then, are already known by producers and are being used more and more consciously. This is also clearly demonstrated by the number of members involved in the scheme and the dynamic increase in the size of the production areas covered by the scheme. The current system's risk management instruments, such as the agricultural compensation scheme, the agricultural insurance premium and the national ice mitigation system, provide protection to plant producers against increasingly extreme weather risks, but do not address any other risk to livestock farmers or outside the weather. At present, our producers do not have any means to cover the loss of income due to world market processes, animal and plant diseases, epidemics. Experience in the field of risk management has shown that, without the public initiative, the creation of a mutual risk management fund through voluntary producer organisation is unlikely. Unfortunately, historical traditions in our country do not strengthen the emergence of self-organization interest groups, and public engagement is therefore essential in achieving effective risk management. The draft proposes to extend the existing risk management system by a new instrument, the introduction of the agricultural crisis insurance system, which could help farmers in the future even if their income is drastically reduced as a result of the loss of the marketing market, the fall in the market price of the products produced, the increase in production costs or the crisis caused by animal health epidemics. [[16.40]] In the event of the introduction of a system corresponding to the income insurance presented in the draft, the recent events that have caused well-known sectoral crises, Minister, which have been mentioned in detail, the support of producers in difficulty may be implemented at systemic level, in a manner that is sparing to the national budget. It is important to stress that the proposed system is even capable of dealing with the current market and economic situation caused by the coronal virus. It should also be borne in mind that, in the light of the results of the EU negotiations, we should be prepared to make the use of risk management interventions in the Member States mandatory on the basis of a proposal from the Commission and to increase the emergence of risk management tools to encourage self-care by producers. By establishing a crisis insurance body that performs tasks related to the new system within the framework of the Hungarian Treasury, it can also be based on the many years of experience accumulated in the agricultural compensation system. All farmers may join the crisis insurance scheme on a voluntary basis, but in the event of accession, membership shall be maintained for at least three years. The essence of the crisis insurance system is that first the producer submits an application for accession to the crisis insurance body, namely the Treasury, and then provides data on his income from his agricultural activity acquired in the last three years. Every year, the producer shall pay a fair crisis insurance contribution to the Treasury's dedicated account for this purpose. Following the availability of the closed accounting data for the year of accession, the producer shall also provide the data from his agricultural income for the year of accession. If the producer's income for the year is reduced by more than 30% compared to the average income of the previous three years, i.e. the reference income, the Treasury shall pay him crisis insurance compensation. The amount of the crisis insurance contribution shall be determined on the basis of the land cultivated by the producer and the average annual number of animals reared by the producer. The crisis insurance contribution paid by producers and possibly other amounts paid by non-State actors shall constitute the own resource of the crisis insurance scheme, which may be used solely for the payment of compensation. In addition to the system's own resources, the crisis insurance body also calls for support from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. All funds thus available are crisis insurance funds, which cannot be withdrawn, transferred, reduced or blocked. In order to compensate for the loss of income suffered by producers, crisis insurance funds cover 30% of which is provided by the system's own source and 70% by the European Union funding that can be obtained through national co-financing. So the greater the system's own source, the greater the support for rural development can be attached to it. It can be seen that as a result of the small self-care of the producer, a substantial part of the loss of income for reasons beyond its control can be compensated. According to the relevant EU legislation, the amount of crisis insurance compensation can be less than 70% of the income loss detected, i.e. a maximum of 69.9 per cent, which has been included in the proposal. So if the average income of the producer is 100 units and the income of the year, i.e. 60 units, based on the income data obtained in the three years preceding accession, then the maximum amount of the loss of 40 units of income can be compensated by 69,9 per cent, i.e. the amount of compensation can be around 28 units. The calculation of the farmer's income from the agricultural activity is based on the accounting obligation imposed on him. The income is defined essentially by reducing the production costs incurred in the agricultural activity from the incomes of the agricultural activity. The revenue generated on all markets includes, for example, sales turnover, all State aid, payments received from the insurance company in view of the event of injury and compensation. For example, in the case of a double-booking undertaking engaged solely in agricultural activities, this is a practical result of the operating activity known from the profit and loss account. However, it is important to note that only a specific part of the producer's loss of income from agricultural activity can be compensated. The farmer is, of course, not entitled to crisis insurance compensation if the loss of income is due to negligence, changes in plant size and artificial creation of circumstances. If, on the basis of all applications for crisis insurance compensation submitted by producers, the crisis insurance fund would not provide sufficient cover for the total amount of the loss of compensated producer income, the level of compensation should be reduced proportionately for all producers entitled to compensation in that year. However, in the case of a large number of farmers' concerns or a drastic loss of income, the possibility of requiring replacement payments can reduce the scale of the distribution. Accession to the agricultural crisis insurance scheme may, if the bill is adopted by Parliament, start in 2021 after the detailed rules have been drawn up. In conclusion, with the adoption of the proposal before this House, Hungary will have the opportunity to introduce, for the first time in the European Union, a new agricultural risk management tool to encourage self-care, thus enabling all farmers to secure income from agricultural activity against all risks. In addition to the establishment of the crisis insurance system, the bill also contains clarifications regarding the field service and the so-called aid law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill on the basis of the reasons set out above. The members of the Fidesz fraction will do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-114	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-05-05-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I would like to point out that we will be able to support this bill, and I do not think that it will require much perspective, that there will not be such a great debate as in the previous hours around this law. But there'll still be comments. In any case, the devil is also hiding in detail here, so we will be very curious about exactly what amounts and what method of implementation will be included in the implementing regulation. It was also the case in the current system that, while, on a certain parliamentary day, during the interpellation, the argument between us was as to why producers did not receive adequate compensation after a frost damage, it was very proudly announced on the same parliamentary day that, because of the money left in the system, we could finance the ice reduction system from this source, which is obviously a good system and can be supported, only it shows well that, while producers suffered a serious loss of income and felt that they were not compensated in an appropriate proportion, the system had a plus of 20 billion and that we were able to spend this resource in other ways. Even if it was useful, the producers were certainly upset and felt the compensation was disproportionately low. I would be interested to know how flexible Hungary and the European Union have been in negotiating this law, how much we will be able to take this 30:70 ratio as a guide for other Member States, or if others might be able to fight out more favourable rates for these producers and the Member States, and what this 70 percent means in detail in terms of cost sharing between the Member State and the European Union. [[16.50]] This 70% should therefore be understood as being the EU resource, or how much of this is the national added amount, value, ratio? As I said, we will therefore be able to support this proposal. I also believe that it was time, and it would have been good to have had such a system, which would also provide a certain degree of protection to livestock farmers, and not only now, because of the effects of the corona virus on a serious export drop, but even as the Minister mentioned in the dairy crisis or in the case of the Russian embargo, a similar system would have been good. It is enough to look at the exposure of some products to export markets. I have already mentioned in an interpellation that, for example, more than 62 percent of our cherry exports depend on Germany, more than 60 percent of our peppers, we are famously exposed to the case of sheep and cheese in the case of Italy, towards Romania in the case of pigs, so these are all risks that hopefully will be mitigated in the future by this draft, but it will in no way replace the obligation to change beyond the uniform nature of the export markets, and this is definitely a public task. I do not know how quickly this legislation will come into force, how fast it will be able to work in practice, because, for example, poultry now has a rather serious situation, even though it was poultry that was the most stable of our livestock sectors, and I say that in recent years it has been an area free from serious setbacks and problems, but this take-over price of HUF 230 per kilogram is now less than cost in many cases. It would therefore be good to have an urgent entry into force here, and then perhaps their situation would be manageable. Not to mention that, unfortunately, avian influenza has reappeared, and in the Great Plain, perhaps more than two million birds have had to be killed in this case, which, although they have received compensation, could certainly mean a noticeable decline in the sector. I do not know if the system will be suitable for this, but cheap imports in many places, for many of our food products, have already resulted in market collapse, partly related to the Crown Virus, but this is a common problem and I will no longer mention the problematic circles that this legislation might help. We will certainly have an amendment to it. We haven't been able to deal with it in such depth as the law that advocates undivided joint measurement and resolution, but by Thursday's deadline, we will certainly have more suggestions and ideas, and I hope they will be positive about them. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-05-116	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-05-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The so-called exposure, i.e. vulnerability, of agriculture, is caused by a number of factors. The first challenge is, of course, the increasingly unpredictable weather, the constantly present crop-control risks as a result of climate change, such as drought or hail, if any, which is devastating or devastating sandstorms, such as what was in the Great Plain last week, but the same problem is, for example, the various vectors in livestock production, and experts believe that in the future different pathogens may continue to come to Europe, which may have a major impact on livestock production. It is an important groundwork that these are the same risks and consequences which are beyond the self-inflicted of Hungarian farmers, which I have just mentioned, so it is of the utmost importance that the agricultural government is creating a new crisis insurance system. It is worth stressing that this extended system is indirectly beneficial for all Hungarian citizens, because crop production and livestock production are not only a sector that accounts for hundreds of thousands of jobs, but also a system of work that is deeply embedded in history and culture, which provides food for the country, which produces a significant part of the gross national product, and which sustains further processing and trade chains. To put it simply, everyone lives from the ground, even those who cannot distinguish wheat from barley, straw from hay or heifer from steer. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Dear House, The new agricultural crisis insurance system can substantially compensate for the unplanned, unexpected and large-scale income loss of those living in agriculture, and it is an outstanding virtue to build on the volunteering and self-care of producers. The financing of the scheme has also been resolved: the compensation fund consists of a small part of the crisis insurance contributions and other payments paid by producers and a larger proportion of the support available under the rural development programme from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. In Hungary, agricultural production and the sectors that are building on it have significant economic importance. The increase in agricultural emissions since 2010 continued in 2019, exceeding 2700 billion, and the value of food production amounted to HUF 3500 billion, while the sector employed more than 350 thousand people and had an export revenue of nearly EUR 9 billion 400 million. In the previous period, between 2007 and 11 the national agricultural compensation scheme was in operation, but in a few years it ended itself. Before 2012, it only operated with one pillar, the compensation scheme, and the scheme was set up on a voluntary basis, so the fund was also lacked resources by supplementing it by the State. Despite its continuous development, the current agricultural risk management system cannot cover all the risks of agriculture. Unlike the agricultural compensation scheme that has been in place for more than ten years, participation in the crisis insurance scheme is voluntary, a producer who complies with EU guidelines and is an active farmer may join the scheme. From the financing side, the own resources of the scheme shall determine the amount of rural development aid which may be called for compensation in the relevant year and the amount of compensation which may be paid to farmers in a given year. It is worth stressing that the new agricultural crisis insurance system is not built on an unprecedented and even secure basis. The current agricultural risk management system launched in 2012 is based on three pillars: the compulsory agricultural compensation scheme, the agricultural insurance premium and the national ice mitigation system introduced in 2018. This system is now being built. The new system is potentially available to 100,000 producers, of whom it is estimated that some 50,000 should volunteer to join it. Based on the pattern of income fluctuations over the past years, the payment of compensation of HUF 20-30 billion per year may also be justified. These are respectable numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill and proposes it to the House for adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-118	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-05-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, This weekend, when I looked at this week's agenda and dealt with the proposals I wanted to make, it became a sad news for me, too. In the last few weeks... Obviously, there are many of us in this room who are given the opportunity to operate in the garden or around the house, without any other program on weekends, obviously many of us have been able to repair a little something that can be fixed. I already said there might be a bit of a development, and then Saturday I had to watch an hour of hail from the window and what it could do in the garden. [[17.00]] So when I thought about the need for this proposal, I obviously had to think about the fact that it might be in someone's hobby that it's causing some kind of annoyance, and some people are putting their family's existence at risk very seriously. And when you see something like that, you get really empathetic with these families and farmers. So I think that the previously created ice mitigation system, and any system that reduces these types of non-calculable exposures, natural risks, is good. There have been such steps in recent years, but also in recent decades. I think every person with a good feeling who can think about it supports me. This specific proposal concerns other market risks beyond weather risks, which are obviously invisible enemies in this respect, in the classic sense of the word for a farmer. But they pose at least as serious a risk as unexpected weather developments, where appropriate. Obviously, there have been serious shortcomings in this in recent years and, in particular, with regard to the coronal virus epidemic, there may be unexpected market developments here. Although I think we should thank again those who have done their job in the fields in these weeks and have worked to ensure that the country's food supply is undisturbed, production should continue. Let us hope that this epidemic will have as little effect on food production as possible, but there are also bad signs. So I think that the creation of such a system can be a substitute, to be supported. The pro-government Members before me and the Minister have also said the specific technique of this, its internal content. I think the technique of this can be acceptable. The devil, of course, is in the details, we always say that at times like this. The question is what this implementing regulation will contain. For one reason, it is obviously a question of what the degree of contribution is, exactly how this will work. I understand that this may change from year to year, be shaped or more flexible if this is regulated by an implementing regulation, but how many people will really join this type of crisis insurance system is fundamentally influenced by the scale of this. So it would be nice to hear something about it, to know, perhaps here in the general debate, or at least until the final vote, so that one can really make a reassuring decision. At the same time, I hope it is not in your interest that few people join this, so it is likely that an optimal measure will be set that will be an incentive. Let me also say here at the end of my speech that whether this should enter into force as a matter of urgency or as a matter of urgency, this is an eligible matter. Leaving it open as a poetic question at the end, it would obviously be good to see exceptional procedures or house rules at times, because there may even be consensus in this House. Once again, the test of pudding is eating, so it must work in practice, but in principle I think that within these frameworks, if it is a good implementing regulation, it can encourage entry, then it can also be a tool. Since we are talking about a voluntary matter, I am saying that this could be one of the legs of the market risks that are above the weather risks that can be reduced for those who voluntarily join this system. In itself, this is a goal to be supported. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-05-120	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-05-121	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, This may be a big day for agriculture, because we have a bill that has been supported by all opposition groups so far, and I can say that at first sight we will obviously wait for all sorts of pro-government amendments to come forward, I think that this is a Eligible proposal. I think it is very important that, in addition to the so-called three pillars mentioned by the Minister, which are trying to detect the weather risks of crop production, there should also be a fourth element that allows losses to be made from market disturbances, price falls or animal and plant diseases. I think it's a fundamentally progressive, eligible idea. Most of all, as the Minister said in his introduction, the corona virus epidemic and, by the way, the previous outbreak of either swine fever or avian influenza in animal husbandry, which unfortunately reappeared in Hungary, pointed out that there are other risks in agriculture, recurring risks that need to be addressed in some way. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the loss of approximately 170 billion forints in the case of ornamental plants, as well as the loss of those who deal with agriculture, is not certain that this system will help, since it will start from 1 January 2021. So it's very important to tell you this. As regards fisheries and aquaculture, it should also be mentioned that this is another sector that is now a loss-making sector during the coronal virus epidemic. At the same time, I know that I think the Ministry has implemented intervention in a very forward-looking way, if I remember correctly, at a gross value of HUF 800 million. It's very professional to buy third summer carp. I do not want to show that I am a great fisheries expert, but this is a very important area, because it was the aquaculture industry who had to suffer huge losses because of the closure of restaurants, as their primary buyers are Hungarian restaurants. So this is a very important thing that the agricultural portfolio has taken action in this regard. At the same time, Minister, allow me to draw attention to the fact that the elimination of these risks is very, very important, but it is not a substitute for finally talking about and directing people in agriculture to the need to diversify. There must be a different type of activity on agriculture, agricultural activity, and I know that there was a VP programme for diversification, one, and perhaps it is very important that there was a VP call for producer groups and organisations, but I would like to draw the attention of this House and perhaps also of the Ministry of Agriculture, although the latter may need to be less so if we do not make it clear and we do not communicate very strongly that self-care not only means insurance against damage, potential risks, but also the dissemination of a different kind of activity, which is based on agricultural activity... Allow me to give such an example. Tourism is not just what it means, and don't be mad at me for saying that in Keszthely, Lőrinc Mészáros is building a port and putting billions in it. Tourism is agricultural tourism. If someone's doing, say, grapery, why don't you organize a wine tasting next to him? Besides, why don't you get support for building a place to stay where you keep the tourist? It's good for the farmer, it's good for the local government, and it's really good for the country. And it may be that a person will return to the country as a tourist, or to the area, because it is possible that domestic tourism can also develop in this way. I would just like to say that, while I think this proposal should be absolutely supported, we need to take it forward, and we need to address it strongly, and perhaps there is a consensus in this House to bring Hungarian farmers to the point where self-care is not only about covering risks, but also about other activities, and I think that EU funds may be very capable of doing so. He also mentioned it, and I am very pleased that he said that EU funds could solve this problem, for example. [[17.10]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that Brussels has, by the way, prepared and adopted all kinds of packages directly to address the risks of the crisis, the losses of the crisis. Maybe we should put a little more emphasis on that. I would like to see this on your billboards, because, I understand, just yesterday another package was adopted to help alleviate the damage. I would like to say to Minister that it is a question of law, but when it comes to something so important, I prefer it to be just that in the bill and not to add any other minor amendments, because it will be salad. We've been discussing a lot of salad laws over the last few weeks. Yours is still the humblest, the salad field submitted by the Ministry of Interior, that will be. I would like to point out once again in this House that we should pay attention to the fact that communication on all sides towards farmers is strong, that this is an opportunity, this is a tool to eliminate the risk, but that there is also a need for other activities to maintain and possibly increase profitability. Of course, I have small questions, but I think we will choose the usual method with the Minister. In particular, I will submit written questions, just because I have had complaints before, but I think that I can learn a lot from my questions, but more from your answers. I think that basically we are in this Parliament to learn from each other and I do not see my fellow Member, KDNP, whether hybrid corn or hybrid warfare. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-05-05-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, As a small detour, I would like to say at the beginning that, reading Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén's proposals on agriculture, I had a strange thought. Mr Vice-President has recently been fond of submitting salad laws relating to agriculture. This has happened several times in the past, although I know the government is behind this. Still, I think it may be possible that you like to submit these because you can smuggle a question about hunters into the law. It was just a few weeks ago that he proposed among the points of the land salad law the unique hunting rules for the sample estates of the owners of the estate, just remember this, and now, in this salad law, he intends to exempt the official hunters from the possibilities of involvement in the field guard's defense service. I do not know, the Minister will be able to answer me, I would very much like to have an answer on how this measure relates to the establishment of a crisis insurance system for agriculture. Now I'm going to get to the second part of my comment. I am not as optimistic as my opposition colleagues and fellow Members have said. I may have heard here, too, and I was almost unsure about the establishment of the crisis insurance system, but the bill states that this is related to some way of securing the loss due to weather stress and other risk factors. But there's the beginning of the weather. [[Dr. István Nagy intervenes.]] Yeah, but the weather is a tough factor. We are already on my main topic, climate change, climate change and agriculture. Not only because this is my topic, but also because I think that these are very hard linked, and if we do not deal with these issues in their place, there will be no good solutions. So if everything goes the same way in agriculture and agriculture, then I have to say that, of course, you can create such a crisis insurance system, but it may only be worth as much as a kiss to the dead, because there will be such losses that there is no money, not even from the central budget, that it will be able to ensure that. That's what I wanted to say at the beginning. However, I hope we agree, Minister, that agriculture is one of the sectors most exposed to the climate crisis in Hungary, of course, elsewhere. I sense that the government is wary of declaring a climate crisis, or the Parliament, which could, among other things, frame the real burning problems relating to agriculture. I can also say that these problems are literally even burning, because when it comes to declaring drought in the spring in the second year in a row because of falling precipitation and the unusual burning heat so far, that is a real problem. This is also an important issue because it is particularly sensitive to the large estates, we know that. The management of large-scale farming, based on chemicals, soil rotation and monoculture, which reduces the humus content of the soil is extremely vulnerable, I think, Minister, you know that very well, especially where valuable agricultural by-products are delivered from land to power plants, easier than using the organic matter content of the soil directly or indirectly through livestock farming as organic manure to improve it. Of course, we know that there's no happy people who do cropping right now. Last week, I heard on TV that this year, due to drought, crop yields may be reduced by half. I don't know, I do, but that's the information I heard. We also know that the large land estates that dumped expensive hybrid corn on 50 percent of their production area in the spring will especially feel the problem now. Even during spring ploughing, seed-making, the tractor was in dust, and the road is really dusty everywhere. Wind erosion is estimated to destroy our soils at one and a half million hectares. Now in the spring he does this everywhere, where spring seed plants are grown after traditional autumn ploughing. That's about half of the country's crop area. In addition to wind erosion, water erosion also significantly reduces the organic matter content of our soils, obviously when more heavy rains develop. This is estimated to be nearly twice the loss caused by wind erosion. Nearly 30 percent of our soils in Hungary belong to the highly eroded category, I am sure that Minister knows these numbers very well, but I think it is worth telling posterity in Parliament, and this problem affects almost half of our production areas. 80 to 100 million cubic meters of soil each year, killing one and a half million tons of organic matter, which cannot be replaced naturally. Thus, it is no wonder that these producers are extremely exposed to extreme weather conditions. Obviously, this is a problem of such importance that the government must also be very serious about this. Obviously, as I have pointed out, the establishment of a crisis insurance system for agriculture is very sound, and I quote: to reduce the fluctuations in income of farmers due to weather and other risks and to stabilise agricultural income. So the government is looking for a financial solution or rather offering a solution to the problem. The climate crisis has such a serious impact on unreasonable farming that a market-based insurance company offers little or very expensive insurance products, and if this increases in the years to come, we will certainly not find such products. The answer will be that the government will use this crisis insurance to provide a ventilator with taxpayers' money for large estates using incorrect agricultural practices, and, in some cases, also for small estates to compensate for these losses. I'm sorry if I'm gonna make a parallel that it's a little bit like a reduction in the rent that the government announced back in the day. [[István Szilárd Németh: That's for sure!]] that it protects Hungarians from reducing their costs, while not dealing with the real problem, reducing energy consumption, real energy modernisation. Therefore, the result of the measure is precisely contrary to the desired objective. Something like this is a bit of an agricultural crisis insurance system if climate change, rational farming and change are not addressed. [[17.20]] We do not claim that such an element could not be part of a package of agricultural measures against the climate crisis, of course, if it would help those who have worked to avoid the problem with all their efforts, but nevertheless, they are damaged by extreme weather conditions. However, we do not see these elements in the government's presentation. What should be done in agriculture under crisis insurance? What can be done to deal with real problems instead of symptoms? Perhaps we should start with the protection against soil erosion. Of course, we know that everything in the agri-ecological system is connected to everything, so a measure is not only useful for one thing. If the government would like to advise the concerned owners of large estates to defend themselves, we would recommend, as a first measure, that the area payment be granted to a maximum of 30 hectares per table and that the tables be separated by a forest band of at least 20 metres wide. For protesters, the agricultural purse could explain that by eliminating hundreds of hectares of both cultivated signs, we could do a great deal about the eroding effects of wind and water. Forest bands would not only break the wind force, but also slow the flow of water, improve infiltration into the soil, and also provide a significant habitat for useful organisms, such as pollinating bees. Mr. Secretary. Once again, I have a good proposal for you: Hungary could launch a strategic agreement with key players in the sector of national security. As part of the strategic agreement... [[Dr. István Nagy intervenes.]] Well, it's not just beekeepers, there's others, we're thinking big owners and farmers. As part of this agreement, it could be agreed as a common goal to provide support only to farmers who protect the production tool of national strategic importance and soil for future generations and our children. As an immediate measure, the provision of continuous plant cover in agricultural fields would be a basic condition for area aid. I know that this is still very, very new and sounds strange in Hungary, but I think that in the not-so-distant future it will become natural; I do not think that I should now make many, many arguments in this agenda in addition to why we should go in this direction. And it would also be important to prohibit the combustion of by-products from agriculture in power plants. If the government really saw soils as a national treasure, then the strategic agreement would include that only reduced soil cultivation can be used in our agricultural land. Obviously, a real crisis resistance would be based on a significant approach to agriculture. In order to focus on water retention and water storage instead of drainage, we do not perceive that this is the case in practice. Draining inland waters should be prohibited for the benefit of all producers. Farmers in inland waters should be encouraged primarily to change their farming, and secondly, since their activities should be rewarded with a compensation payment in the public interest, it might be worth noting that they do not want to send the water from them quickly. Thus, the cultivation of areas covered with regular inland water should be prohibited, while grassland and forest planting, the establishment of fish ponds in these areas, could be given priority support. The possibility of landscape management measures for water retention is wide and should be applied. Part of this approach is also that priority should be given to producers who manage organic or permacular farming as sparingly as possible compared to others. The State advisory system should be adapted to build an advisory network that could compete with the activities of agents of multinational chemical companies. Obviously, a network of education and advice is needed to provide accessible and relevant knowledge and help to spread environmentally friendly and gentle farming methods. We believe that fundamental changes are needed in support policy. Chemical-free farmers with the highest social benefits, producing the healthiest products, who maintain most ecosystem services, should be given the highest support. Support sources should be directed to eco-friendly family farmers instead of supporting large industrial farms building on soil-destructive, toxic monocultures. Let us face it: in agriculture, it is not a financial crisis insurance system that can really provide a solution, but a package of measures with real agroecological solutions, and without it no crisis insurance system will work. Now, I have said all that I think you know well, but once again, in this regard, I think it is important that you speak here in Parliament as often as possible, so that we can get used to the idea that we must also make a very serious change in the structure of agriculture. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that it is good, obviously bringing in such a crisis insurance system is important, but if there is no change in these areas, it will not be worth much, because there will be crop losses for which there will be no money, and there will not be enough in the central budget to reimburse them. So thank you very much, Minister, for listening to me.
u2020-05-05-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now there are two-minute comments, two of them came forward. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Czerván.
u2020-05-05-125	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought the bill was consistent, but Erzsébet Schmuck managed to upset the harmony a little bit, and there were some pretty amazing things. The problem is that there are also partial truths in what he said, and there are things about, say, the common agricultural policy. This anti-terrestrial outburst, so the great estate is affected by drought as well as the small estate. I have said it several times, I will say it again: we need small, medium, large, individual farmers, social enterprises, everyone. The proposals you have said would reduce the production of Hungarian food materials by at least 30-40 percent if they were introduced, but this needs to be discussed in the EU. What inspired me here in terms of harmony, Zoltán Magyar asked me some specific questions. Here the concepts sometimes mix a little: different compensation, different compensation, and what we are talking about now is compensation. As you say in your name, we are not talking about a 100 percent refund or compensation, but rather a partial one, which must be approved by the European Union, so we also had to make the compensation system and the current system known. And as the wording goes here, there can be no less than 70 percent of this compensation. So we give the maximum, no one in the European Union can give more than this 69.9 percent, that is the maximum. There are two parts of this compensation, and it is not paid by the taxpayers, but its subjects, so farmers with the contribution, and it is also possible to make voluntary payments. This represents 30% of the compensation and 70 percent of the EAFRD, with domestic co-financing, which is 15 percent. So basically the point is, the more someone pays into the system, the more compensation they can expect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-126	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Simicskó in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I've been a part of it for four hours, following the debate on agricultural and agricultural issues of two important laws here. I must say, one of my experiences is that this debate has taken place within a very cultural framework, so I commend you all. Obviously, this depends partly on the preparation, obviously depends on the personal commitment of the wallet and the minister, and it obviously depends on you how the questions have been raised and what amendments have been made. [[17 .30]] As a security policy politician, let me say that this is, after all, crisis insurance. I think that the most important thing to see at this time and to amend the previous law was that, yes, the agricultural purse and the government are able to recognise the problems and problems that are manifest in agriculture and try to go forward, to react, to remedy them. I think that the legislative intention should be rewarded, if I may put it this way, to appreciate it. This also shows a set of values, because not everyone has been able to recognise these problems, so this bill is exemplary and forward-looking, to alleviate the damage, to help the families of people living in agriculture and to provide them with a livelihood. There is no 100% security, no military, no economic sense, no agricultural sense, but that there is an ambition and there is an intention to alleviate the damage, to prevent trouble as far as possible, I think that is a clear effort in this legislative proposal, in this package of laws. Finally, I would conclude by responding to Erzsébet Schmuck, and not by provocating another debate, God forbid, because the debate has been going on here for four hours, and I have come to the defence laws myself to speak. [[Defiance.]] I too have learned a great deal from this debate today, on the one hand, that it was indeed completely cultural, and I appreciate it, Madam President, that it really is fighting in every speech to solve the problem of climate change. I agree, but obviously the agricultural purse is doing a lot, but it will not be able to solve global challenges to transform climate change in a positive direction. Obviously, you can do what you can in Hungary by your own strength, and you will do what you can in Hungary. So that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for allowing me to be part of this debate.
u2020-05-05-128	Thank you, Congressman. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck wishes to respond in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-129	Thank you very much. Just for such a short two minutes. First, I would like to answer my colleague György Czerván a little. You're saying I ran out against the great estate. That is not what my comment is about, Mr President, that this is about the fact that if you follow the climate change issue a little bit, then the international scientific company will now also draw attention to the fact that there is a big problem with agriculture, due to extreme weather conditions and many other impacts, there will be radical changes here. And let us not think that Hungary will be able to provide food to 20 million people in the coming period! There are very big problems with the quality of the soil, the structure of the soil. I do not wish to refer to Minister, but not so long ago at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, he said that the soil strength has decreased to 20 percent in 20-30 years, we eat chemical food and there are residues in it. For example, do you not think that our immune system is weakened because of such food, and this is also related to the fact that we are more exposed to the epidemic? So these are, I think, very serious questions. Here in the context of climate change, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we can only do so with regard to adaptation in Hungary. I wasn't talking about reducing CO2, I was talking about doing these adaptation tasks. If we don't do it, believe me, we can create any crisis insurance system, the god's money won't be enough to make up for the crop losses that suffer it. I have talked about nothing else, I hope, in a cultural way, as my fellow Member Simicskó said. I would like to draw attention to this and urge the agricultural purse, Minister, to see a programme here as soon as possible that precedes it and actually eliminates the causes. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-130	Thank you, Congresswoman. My fellow Members were inspired, so I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó in two minutes. [[Dr. István Nagy: Oh, Tom! Hello.]]
u2020-05-05-131	Good afternoon. Power, cheers, everyone. Here, my fellow Members gathered for the next agenda on security policy are also joining in. I would like to respond very briefly to my fellow Member Simicskó, because he also received a round of applause from the opposition lines, as he praised the work of the wallet and praised some of the opposition's voices and comments today. Let me say here, and I say very frankly to my fellow Member, Minister, that this really proves that a wallet normally prepares a proposal; if you see on the proposal that it is not in the interest of a narrow political or economic circle, but that you want to help a large part of the people; if you are looking for an existing problem, we do not yet know that it is successful, but perhaps it is also apparent from the comments that we are supposed to take good steps, then this opposition, the same opposition, will speak in this tone, and probably, if it is up to us, will vote for this proposal. So I would encourage you, as my pro-government fellow Member, to try to get as many of these legislative proposals as possible from your government, because I am afraid that today was the only one, as I will say, that I will be able to say. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-132	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm in a very difficult situation because my old love, defence, is coming, but I can tell you that my new love, agriculture, is on the agenda. And it is very important to be able to talk about these issues emotionally, i.e. without political emotion. I would like to say to Mr Czerván that at the end of the day, all taxpayers' money, Hungarian taxpayers' money, there will also be taxpayers' money and European taxpayers' money. What has been said here as a debate on climate change: I think it would be very important, and Mr Harangozó also referred to this, that in this case we should have a normal voice discussion with each other, pointing to the future, because everyone has the truth, agricultural producers also have the truth, who want to live, the Hungarian buyer also has the truth, who wants cheap, high-quality Hungarian products, and perhaps our generation, who says that they want to live in a clean environment. I believe that this could be a topic worth even a normal political debate day, without discussing political positions, but by inviting even the younger generation to help alleviate these problems and crises in the context of the epidemic. I think that this is a proposal that is worthy of support, thanks once again to the Ministry. But today's debate also shows that there are a lot of other national affairs across party policy, and in agriculture this is a national issue in which the Democratic Coalition was very happy to participate, but also in a discussion or political debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-134	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask Minister if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. István Nagy nodds.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-05-05-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your opinions and comments. It was a touching and moving feeling, and I must say to all of you, because it was presented in doubt that we were going on a road that no one in Europe had been on before us. The only thing that led us was the realization that the safety of production was infinitely important. We didn't talk about it, but think about the livestock farm or the farmer who has to sell his milk one year at a buy-in price, the next year with minus 20, while he wants credit, while he wants to develop and go to the bank, and when the bank looks at his income, he sees such a drizzle graph, and he simply doesn't give him credit, because he's not sure how he can repay it the next year. Here is a great help that we can say that we will provide a balanced income opportunity from the ground up if he joins this insurance system. So we're gonna give him a grant. And how does Erzsie's comment come about this? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Completely integrated in such a way that it can only develop, it can really be environmentally conscious, it can switch to precision farming, it can farm with robots and with environmental awareness who have income, who has money, who has a sure future. Because our entire agriculture is characterised by a huge lack of resources, so that everyone knows how to go forward, what non-rolling farming methods are, what they are that we can produce much less harmful materials, but that's all money, and we just ran out of money when we bought a farm when we bought the livestock or feed. And then let's just think about it, and we're counting on revenue, and then there's a market disturbance, because there's a problem. [[17.40]] And here comes the point of the comment again, that, of course, we could also regulate where it would lead, if we were to say: we could protect the Hungarian producer even if we did not allow imports into the shops. Then let's cut the imports. Do we contribute to environmental protection, climate history? Of course. 'Cause we're saying, what if we couldn't deliver raw materials from more than 200 or 250 kilometers away? This is one way to approach the issue, and this is also at some level a producer protector or even a Hungarian producer. So the direction of this proposal could be broken down in many ways, but I am glad that my fellow Members understand, they have given us their support to go, think, and look further. AKI staff made a thousand models, we expect a lot of data about how it will work, how it can be made available, and how we can use the European EAFRD resource for the safety of Hungarian producers. I would also like to thank Mr Secretary of State here for his help, because in his time, as a matter of fact, it has been raised, and we have dealt with it at the time, but it certainly has taken so much time for this to come before the House in a bill. And the end of the baby, I must say, is a small wallet or a poor man cooking with water, this was our chance to regulate this issue, so we smuggled it there, and thank you for your understanding and support. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-136	Thank you very much. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws on legal status and other defence issues until closure. Government referral T/10311. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-05-05-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I listened to the last few minutes of the debate on the previous agricultural and agricultural law, and I felt good about the fact that the term "National Case" was found in this law. I think that, in the bill submitted to Parliament by the Minister of Defence, and whose exposé I am about to present, the word. The issue of defence is our common cause, and it is the duty of all Hungarians, if you like, to protect the country, and defence is a much more important concept than to discuss only soldiers, the Hungarian Defence Forces, because the defence of Hungary on which we base our defence is based is based on at least three pillars, so they say, the military capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, our commitment to NATO Alliance and our membership, and the patriotic commitment of citizens. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on this national issue, on this national issue, we must state that we are living in a time of day when we are presenting today. There was a danger to the world, Europe and our country that we never thought of in our worst dreams. Perhaps we have only heard from our parents and grandparents about an uncertain and critical period like the current situation. We all agree that, despite all the difficulties, we Hungarians have demonstrated an extraordinary cooperation and discipline that is exemplary in Europe during the critical times of the last few weeks and months. Allow me to pay tribute to the frontline fighters and to thank them in particular. First of all, doctors, nurses, nurses, paramedics and police officers, our soldiers, who are doing everything they can to ensure that the Hungarian people can live well in the shadow of the coronal virus, feel safe and peaceful. We also thank all those working in the fields, especially in the food supply, shops, pharmacies, social institutions and transport of goods, who are doing everything they can for us every day, for the care of the Hungarian people. They started yesterday and graduation exams are in order. Thank you to the mature students, let's not forget that this is more than 95 percent of the students who are required to graduate. And, of course, we should thank the teachers, teachers and educators who have organized this exam in schools, who are excellent at preparing them in the digital environment. The military and soldiers are affected by this on several levels, as these exams, cadet training and basic defence skills take place in nearly a hundred secondary schools and are an optional subject of graduation. It is a great test for all of us, at which we can overcome, in the least, not by disunity, by partying, but only by real cooperation and by common power. Every Hungarian must feel that he is not alone. As Dezső Szabó put it, all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to share a few things about this defence with you from the point of view of the defence, to tell you here how the Hungarian Defence Forces are involved in the defence. In the interests of the Hungarian Defence Agency's obligation under the Fundamental Law, it serves the safety of the Hungarian people and the country with its full ability, all of its soldiers and available knowledge. The soldiers swear on it, offering their lives. The Hungarian soldiers have always been involved, they are involved in the prevention of disasters, so they have played a prominent role during the coronal virus epidemic. This is not a coincidence, since the Hungarian Defence Office is preparing for this type of emergency in many ways and in many ways during annual domestic training and NATO exercises. This is also a crucial aspect in the development of our technical tools, such as our ability to save air and our military health. CHAPTER XXI In the century, the soldiers saved human life, natural resources and material possessions on land, water, and air during the cyanide pollution in Tisza, the red mud disaster, or even the floods of the millennium in the Danube in the summer of 2013. Now we have to deal with an invisible disease ruled all over the world that has been introduced from abroad, and this can only be done with the help of our soldiers. The special legal order announced as a result of a coronal virus epidemic, since the emergency, is the deployment of nearly two thousand honvéds a day, some four hundred technical devices. We have strengthened and hermetically closed our southern borders from illegal migrants coming from coronal warheads. We are involved in the passenger traffic of the other border sections and in the control, monitoring and logistics of goods traffic and so-called humanitarian Corridors. Our military officers are already patrolling 17 garrison patrols and checking compliance with curfew rules, and ensuring a calm, orderly daily life in public areas and markets. The armed forces of the military also guard the central warehouses where we store defence equipment, tens of millions of masks, gloves, cloaks and ventilators, which are still prepared for the stage of the epidemic that causes mass diseases through the successful Chinese-Hungarian air bridge. In 13 counties, he heads 51 hospitals, and the hospital commander directs the preparations, thus securing the hospital beds, preserving the supplies, channeling the data. Defence control tribes already coordinate emergency operations at 105 military, energy and utility services, transport, food, pharmaceutical and medical, chemical, infocommunication and public supply companies. In particular, we need to take care of our elderly countrymen, parents, grandparents, and the defense will do its utmost. Using our anti-Hazmat and biological detachment capabilities, we started the disinfection and deviralization of hundreds of elderly homes on Easter Sunday. [[17.50]] First of all, the country's only mass-infesting focal point, the Pesti Road nursing home, where 329 infected and unfortunately 40 deceased are now numbered by 25 chemical-defense soldiers for 10 hours a day for six days instead of Mayor Gergely Karácsony. We will also use our voluntary reserve forces in biological eradication operations. It is important that the 17-person reserve stock inherited from the Gyurcsány-Vadai era has been extended to 9300. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: National cooperation.]] At the entrance of hospitals and clinics, we have set up almost 70 large pre-filter tents, the first at the Heim Pál Children's Hospital. These are used to detect and isolate patients with urgency and patients with suspected coronal virus backgrounds. At St. László Hospital we provided a health tent complex used in NATO, and the number of camp beds sent to hospitals and social institutions exceeded 300, but we also gave camp tables, chairs and large pots and pots of 60-70 litres. They also asked for loaders to move inside the hospital, and these days our Szentes technical soldiers in Szeged did earthwork in the construction of a container assembly as part of the control of the epidemic. In addition, daily work, daily training and daily military work are also taken out, as the air force continues to protect Hungary's airspace, the Gripen pilots are stationed in three shifts, in space and in time very strictly separate. The Hungarian Defence Office is still fulfilling its mission obligations as a result of the tasks of the peace operation. Hungarian soldiers currently serve more than 800 in 3 continents, 9 countries and 11 missions. With the worldwide spread of the Covid-19 epidemic, we have introduced rules in all operational areas that reduce the risk of possible contamination. The regulations of the Hungarian Defence Forces are in line with the epidemiological measures issued by international organizations, the United Nations, NATO and the EU in charge of the operational area. The Hungarian Defence Forces introduced medical procedures for the increased protection of soldiers at the time of the emergence of the Crown Virus in Hungary. The military forces will do everything in their power to prevent the outbreak and spread of the disease among the population. We're ready to isolate and heal the infected. Each soldier has received a coronal virus epidemic training and is aware of the hygiene rules required for prevention, the symptoms of the disease and the actions to be taken in the event of their emergence. Special attention will be paid to the cleanliness of community spaces, water blocks, kitchens and canteens, bedrooms and compliance with disinfection rules. Defence is also prepared to participate in the economic protection action plan to restart life by creating jobs, recruiting and modernising its forces. The Hungarian Defence Office can become the country's largest employer and client, which can bring further strengthening of Hungary's national interests and values. And as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said about the job creation of defence, we also have an army, and we welcome the strong young people, and we recruit them for half-and-a-year training, that if they do not find a suitable job in the production work, we will naturally welcome them to come to the service of the country. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The image of the Hungarian National Army, which is worthy of the recognition and respect of the Hungarian people, has been drawn up to strengthen its ability, the military tradition, and the development of which must also be assisted by us, Members of Parliament, regardless of party affiliation. The bill before us seeks to amend a number of laws, some of which are technical in nature, which seek to ensure consistency between the laws. The primary aim of the amendments is to reduce bureaucracy, simplify and clarify, thus helping to develop and strengthen the Hungarian Defence Forces in order to fulfil the tasks of the Fundamental Law at the highest possible level in both peace and special legal order. Of the nine laws to be amended, I would like to highlight the amendment of the law on the status of soldiers, which aims to make the establishment of a service more flexible in order to maintain the military population, to clarify the rules relating to the position of service and to move forward and to transfer practical experience. The amendment of the law on the status of defence employees also provides for the possibility of establishing disciplinary liability rules and the inclusion of practical experience after the entry into force of the law. I would like to highlight the amendment introducing additional support for orphans to the deceased military staff, as is the additional support for orphans of deceased soldiers. The amendments include legal settlement of tax exemption issues arising from the Defense Cooperation Agreement between Hungary and the United States of America. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support and accept the legislative amendments, as our soldiers have a constitutional duty to maintain the security and freedom of Hungary and the Hungarian people. So it is also our job to help our countrymen to carry out their patriotic work and military oaths by reducing bureaucracy and providing legal conditions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-05-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After the national expo, I would like to say at the beginning of the debate that the Fidesz faction supports the bill. We are talking about a large-scale proposal, and this is not the only proposal for a salad law that is being put on the table today in the field of defence and police, so I would like to give a very brief explanation of our position. The introduction of tax-free additional aid for orphans of military workers, the simplification of the process of taking over civil life from a professional base and the facilitation of the establishment of a starting step, and the clarification of the rules on remuneration and promotion are changes that can be clearly supported. The establishment of restructuring rules and, at the same time, the creation of the possibility of employment in the service delivery time frame and other related amendments must, in my opinion, be assessed from the point of view of how they benefit the operation of defence. In my view, the proposed amendments contribute greatly to a more flexible and rapid response to new challenges in the field, providing an opportunity to increase the adaptability of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which is why they must be supported. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would also like to point out in a sentence that the proposal includes measures to reduce bureaucracy, technical amendments, improvements based on practical experience and changes aimed at creating legislative coherence, which are also intended to improve operational efficiency. The package of proposals before us is clearly in the interests of defence. I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2020-05-05-140	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We will continue our work by speaking to the lead speaker of Jobbik. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-141	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the T/10311 bill before us, I would like to talk about the position of the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. First of all, I must point out that nothing has changed when the defence wallet is submitting a proposal, given that it has managed to achieve that 12 minutes of the 15 minutes of the author's not talking about the law were only 3 minutes, even though I think that the amendment of 9 laws through 61 paragraphs might have been worth more than 3 minutes with the salad law. But, of course, we have it in writing, and in this way we can make some kind of statement on these issues. The modification of personal income tax to the orphans of defense workers is completely natural. What I don't understand is why it hasn't happened before that the orphans wouldn't have been able to do so after the loss of their life in the course of this kind of activity. Of course, we welcome this question. The question of the defence portfolio is not the regulation of the central administration, which is about the right to publish. In recent years, all the features of the central government organization system have been fundamentally transformed, and we see that there have been no rules that are dictated by life anyway, and leaders are most likely to realize that every decision on a small detail has to be signed by them, and now this place of legislation replaces the planting of the right to release to lower-level subordinates. I humbly note that I hope that you will look very closely at what is being done to them, as this will also place the liability rules on them. In the last year, just a year ago, in April, Hungary signed a treaty with the United States that, in fact, the United States Army can do virtually everything that is possible in Hungary. It is likely that our democracy deficit has not bothered the United States so much after that. In fact, as a result of this convention, the 2019 LI was adopted last year. There is a further amendment and addition to the Act, on the one hand, to the full exemption and, on the other, to the various rules supplementing their stay, which I do not wish to give any further details about myself. They are likely to be part of this relationship. Then the legislative proposal is set out in Article 14. It already complements the various definitions of the law on the status of military fighters. These are restructuring, the public soldier, the career beginner, the service interest, the establishment of a professional service relationship, the order of entering into a service relationship, the order of practice, the clarification of appointments and the probation period. It can be seen that in these definitions there was a deficit in the original legislation and that life is likely to justify further clarification. One of the most important elements of this is that we do not have to wait two years to become a professional soldier, starting as a soldier in the army. There is another element, the transition from civil life, so that someone is immediately assigned as a petty officer or officer. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to stop at this point. Everyone in this room knows, in 2010, I had the opportunity to work in the Ministry of Defence, and after the new Orbán government had developed a new organisational structure and a new staff policy, it was extremely stressful that a number of people from civil life immediately entered the defence system with certain very high levels of status. This was not a problem for the individual, since we are talking about qualified people, and many of them were in service before. However, for those of their peers who have been loyal to the organization for decades and have had to work hard to get ahead of their respective ranks and positions, they have created morally serious tensions. Here in the Chamber is former Minister István Simicskó, who has also encountered such problems during his office, and it is therefore indeed welcome if, for example, a serious expert is placed in the system of defence from civil life, and therefore he is rewarded with some kind of higher rank, but it should never be forgotten that for those who served there in a lifelike way, for many decades, it may be a return to those who are about to receive a serious, guaranteeing rank. And it will be related to a later legislation, because you know, we all know, that the stock of provisions can be placed down from the lieutenant colonel, if you cannot give someone a task, ergo, if a colonel from civil life comes immediately, then whatever happens, he will live up to his hope or not, from there to the end of time, or at least until his retirement. But I'll keep going. The relationship between rank and service is changed by some legislative amendments in this proposal, and this results in exactly the same consequence that I have just mentioned. There are links between rank and service relations in part of the proposal, which have already created a great deal of injustice in the organization. I told you before that the return, so when someone returns their rank, goes to civil life and then suddenly thinks that they want to go back to the defence system, the law states that in defence interest this would be appreciated, but there is an facilitation in the legislation, which then says that the Hungarian Defence Commander does not have to give his consent. That is to say, from a civilian life that the Hungarian Defence Office would like to know in its staff, in the system of simple assignment, the direct superior can decide what his fate should be, and in fact take this decision competence to a low level compared to the Hungarian Defence Commander, which I do not think is justified, especially in the case of a higher rank. I think that this is too liberal on this issue, so I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State with great respect to translate it to the Minister, that, if you would do so, you should reconsider this question. Simply do nothing but simulate cases that may occur and, consequently, it is possible to conclude that this part should be submitted or maintained as an even more circumstantial amendment. The proposal includes a staff of provisions, which can be applied to soldiers of different rank from the Lt-Col down, and this includes the possibility of doing so without justification. You all know that during the past 15-20 years in the Hungarian Defence System, in any position, in any kind of leadership position, or even as a member of the parliamentary committee, have worked in order, especially when political change takes place, that a very large number of soldiers in positions will be placed under the command of the National Defence and Police Committee. The Ministry of Interior has a floor like this where the generals have an ivory tower. I don't think I'm going to tell anyone anything in this room, a lot of generals without assignments, without assignments, because the new political leadership didn't think about them. Even when it comes to excellent professionals. I would be happy to suggest that you visit that floor of the Ministry of the Interior, the hidden rear, where you can find these extremely excellent people. [[18.10]] So, what I would like to say is that the issue of the stock of provisions gives the political leader an incredibly large, unjustified power, or even the superior, to establish such an addictive relationship between the subordinate soldier and his superior, can generate a kind of, even unconventional adjustment, behaviour, and activity that serves to prevent him from being in a position to be unable to receive a position, unable to receive a task, and therefore to be placed under a decree. In particular, because we have seen that in recent years the number of people allowed and the real number of Hungarian armies compared to each other is amazing, so there are significantly fewer soldiers than the number of soldiers allowed. I feel that in the Hungarian army, we cannot keep our soldiers in existential uncertainty, and they feel that they can only take this career until they are retired if they try to comply with their superiors in an unintelligent way, even by giving up professional rules. The conclusion, therefore, is that I feel that this gives the superior too much room for abuse of the rules of the Regulation. We have to admit, a soldier doesn't become someone from one minute to the next, a soldier doesn't become someone from one month to the next, or even from one year to the next. It takes a long decade to spend in this organizational system so that someone can say that I am a soldier in the noble sense of the word, I know that if some kind of attack or disaster like, say, in this case, we are suffering exactly this, then what am I supposed to do? In this way, it is important to give our soldiers a gift by not creating rules that could cause excessive abuse in the organization. And then here's the over-service 400 hours a year. That is why we will not vote for this rule, we will not vote for it. Just think, no matter how you look at it, the 400 hours are eight hours a day, 50 days of work. On average, Hungarian soldiers may be wrong, but I think they have about 25 days of normal freedom a year, so I am talking about average. The 25 days are normal leave for seven weeks. This means that if the soldier is forced to work for 400 hours, he has a day of rest for 7 months, and he does not have a rest day for the remaining 5 months, i.e. he works 7 days out of 7 days. It's mathematics, so it really doesn't take a serious scientist to do that. I cannot imagine, by the way, that with the soldiers, this amendment was discussed by someone. Just for example, I'm going to give you certain tasks to think about if you don't have a weekly rest day, or if you're on your one day off... Like a locator guy. I'm sure you've seen them work, and you're gonna have to pay attention that I don't think you can carry for even eight hours, let alone plus 400 hours of work a year. The scout is such a serious spiritual work, it has to be there, because it cannot be mistaken, that I cannot imagine that such overwork could be carried out psychologically and physically. Or, for example, those who plan the exercises, whose spiritual work is untraceable and cannot be burdened with such a huge workload. So with all due respect, I would like to ask you to consider this. I simply cannot imagine that they can give any professional, political, social, sociological reason for it. So with all due respect, forget it. Further, the legislation concerns the disciplinary action of defence employees, which is indeed a deficit, since the defence workers have been brought into a new special legal relationship as a result of the last year's legislative amendment, and it is true that the previous rules can no longer apply to them, so this legislative proposal actually fills a gap. Finally, let me ask you one thing, because I could not imagine that it would also be about Gergely Christmas in presenting such a legislative proposal. At last, I would like to state here within the walls of this House, according to the 1998 Ministerial Decree on Social Welfare, the Government Office is responsible for any kind of social home during an epidemic in terms of defining tasks and care. It's not the mayor, it's the government. Do me a favor and read your own laws, and then at least such a debate will not take place within the walls of this House for weeks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-05-05-142	Thank you very much. Congressman István Simicskó, notary of the National Assembly, is next with the lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, there is a serious package of laws before us, which concerns 9 laws, changes and amends 61 sections. Overall, I have to say that this is obviously part of the way to harmonise legislation, to bring about consistency between the various laws. A very wide outlook must be applied to understand precisely the direction and the essence of it, but I can say that there are fundamental values, criteria and goals in government defence policy. Obviously, we need to ask these questions before we can say that we will vote in favour of all the points of the legislative amendment package before us, which obviously fit into our big military development programme, this 10-year development plan, the Zrínyi military development programme, obviously the task and basic task can be carried out by the Hungarian Defence Office, the appreciation, the care, the ability to maintain, the creation of development goals. And I have to say, reading through the text of the amendment of the law, it serves the cause of the Hungarian defence and the strengthening of Hungary's security. It obviously includes repeals, text-pointing, clarification of certain interpretation provisions. There are technical changes in it and changes in its content. Here, speakers before me and, obviously, Minister of State, have also said in his expozee on the basis of what aspects of the legislative amendment package have been drawn up. To give just an example of how diverse and widespread the legislative change package before us is. From the Personal Income Tax Act, it also includes amendments to the laws drawn up to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices, from the Defence Data Management Act to the Law on the Status of Patronages, or from the Central Government Administrations to the Social Insurance Pension Act. I would like to point out that, in addition to the great context, the aim of the portfolio is to provide answers to the challenges of the changing world and to find them by creating and amending the legislative framework. Therefore, there are vital needs in the legislative change package. They are eligible and should also be supported by the KDNP faction. Indeed, let me begin with the detailed explanation that the purpose of the amendment of the SAY Law is beautiful and noble. We agree that, like the additional support for orphans of the deceased soldiers, the exemption for additional support for orphans of defence workers should also be granted. It has obviously been said by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that this could have been done sooner. Therefore, it must be far from me to explain here, as former Minister of Defence, that is not the purpose of the current debate, but you know it, because we did work together in the Ministry under Csaba Hende's ministership, that there were other tasks, such as the migration crisis, fence building and many others, as we began to write a ten-year military development program, to formulate a strategy. Of course, the attention of man and obviously the apparatus of the Ministry cannot cover everything, but we have come to the point that these issues must also be addressed, and that the legislative initiative is completely noble and well-intentioned in this area as well. [[18.20]] I can say that we agree with the addition of the agreement on defence cooperation between Hungary and the United States. Indeed, we find it necessary to establish the power to issue the currently missing exemption certificates. There is a lot of reference here to the fact that the Hungarian Defence Forces are also transforming. I referred to the military development program, but there is also an organizational change here, which also requires no small-scale restructuring and reports in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence, since previously the Ministry of Defence worked as an integrated ministry, and the staff of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Staff and the Hungarian Defence have been managed in this way. Obviously, the task that must now be carried out for my successor is that a decision has been made to reinstate the Hungarian government's command of the Hungarian Defence Forces. This means that the Integrated Ministry will be transformed, not an integrated ministry. However, the power of governance of the Minister of Defence and the Government remains, the power of governance of the executive authority in this way. However, this will certainly lead to serious organisational changes, and there are obviously also legislative consequences, which have been included in this legislative change package in a reasonable way and in order to clarify. I think it is important that the Hungarian Defence Office can draw from the civilian life. It is important to be able to win people prepared, educated and committed to defence, as this is what the construction of the professional Hungarian Defence Corps is all about. Western examples could be classified in this respect for a long time. I think it is very important, in addition, that we strive to ensure that the predictability that soldiers have always expected, which means the career path, is what we all serve as the career model. This current amendment also serves this purpose, so it sets out very good directions. I would like to say, not to create a debate, and not to mention, that Andrea Varga-Damm did work at the Ministry of Defence, and I am referring to this for the second time. It has been said several times just because we speak to him as lawyers, we really are in a very narrow professional setting, the term rank has often been said. The rank is the Count and the Baron, there's a rank here. The rank has also been mentioned several times, but just for the sake of accuracy, let us point out that the issue of the rank is also discussed in the legislative amendment proposal. I think it's right that you give flexibility to the current leaders. It is important in terms of the stock of provisions, but we did not know that there was one in the BM, and then, obviously, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to this, if there really is one, but the point is that I think it is right that, given the issue of the stock of provisions, the direct supervisor, the employer, who sees his activities as an officer or a petty officer, may make provision for this. I don't think we need to centralize everything, and in any case, the Minister will decide who's on the table. I would like to note that I have heard in advance from my fellow opposition Members that this 400-hour increase to 300-hour-400 hours is, indeed, critical of availability or overwork on their part. I have to say, a soldier isn't just a soldier for eight hours. Whoever chooses this profession knows exactly. They are the ones I spoke about just before yesterday's agenda, the firefighters, disaster workers, policemen, soldiers who swear to protect the country, swear to protect life, and it is the Hungarian soldier who, by the way, is sacrificing his life in his oath. By the way, the cops are risking their lives to do their job. So they're not just soldiers for eight hours. They know exactly what they're doing. Serving home is an honorary service. This is why the Hungarian Defence Forces have such great respect not only for the government, but also for the Hungarian society. I think it's the right thing to do. I don't think that's gonna be a problem or a problem for the soldiers. And so much about mathematics, just for a moment to be precise again. If I remember correctly, and I don't want to be personal right now, I'm sorry, but what you said was that you have 25 days on average, and that means seven weeks. I think it means five weeks, but it doesn't matter now, and it's not important again from that point of view. Five times five is 25, but it doesn't matter. The point is, I've known a lot of soldiers, I've known them for the last 22 years, because I've been a Member of Parliament since 98, and I've started as Vice President of the Defence Committee, and then I've obviously worked as a minister. I've met many soldiers, not only generals, but also deputy officers, petty officers, crew members. I believe that if someone is practicing this life-style, then he feels honored to serve his country, especially in this case, which we have now come into, which Mr. State Secretary has spoken of, and is indeed exemplary in their service, he should be honored. It's important to acknowledge loyalty. Now, I don't want to bring up a bucket list like this, but maybe in the two years that I served as a minister, I didn't have time for everything, either. The effort and the intention were done. I suggest you pay them a compliment, Secretary of State. So we shouldn't be targeting severance pay, let's say, in the case of a contract soldier, if that's still the case. It may not be very elegant to make suggestions right now, but perhaps you should consider it a kind of admission that, yes, we could not pay attention to everything else and do what can be done, because soldiers appreciate it, the career, predictability, loyalty and recognition of merit, because we expect a lot from them. It is worth considering that, say, after a five-year contractual relationship, you will receive a severance pay, and we will not give him any loyalty money to stay any longer, but rather go away and get, and you will not get a reserve, but obviously all of these can be resolved, and I think this is a correct direction. All in all, I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, that these nine laws, which the package itself contains, certainly contain amendments adapted to life. On the part of the KDNP, I can clearly say, as a Member of Parliament, that we are in favour of the legislative package before us at every point. Finally, let me say one more thing: in the future, I think we should pay particular attention to future young people, to the training of officers. What I see today about the scholarships is that if you study well, you will receive a scholarship of approximately HUF 40,000. Obviously, there the young man decided early that he wanted to be a soldier, wanted to be an officer. It is important to make this scholarship competitive, as the requirements are very high. When, for example, we have introduced the reserve system with a territorial protection principle and launched it, it is due to this work, and I am very pleased that it continues to go dynamically, we have 9300 reserveers, and not 17, which is a difference in scale compared to 2010, but if I remember correctly, it will receive 62 thousand HUF scholarship if a person completes the voluntary reserve training in three modules during his higher education. So you get 40,000 forints who go to the Faculty of War Science, and you get 62,000, who, by the way, goes to civil college. It is important to pay attention to this in the future, because we want to make the military profession attractive. Appreciation should also be expressed in this way. I know that a lot of resources will now be rethought in the context of the crisis, but I would very much like to see the development and strengthening of the Hungarian Defence Forces continue. This legislative amendment proposal, this package is forward-looking, worthy and worthy, so I can say from the KDNP that we will also support its final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-144	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State expo lasted 15 minutes. I would like to make a little correction to the better Member, as the Secretary of State did not talk for three minutes about the bill, in general, a little, but two and a half, in particular. I watched this on purpose, because after ten minutes, it was very, very hard for you to hear the Secretary of State talking about something else, so in terms of class, I saw him move to the bill at 12 minutes and 30 seconds. [[18.30]] You know, Mr. Secretary, that's a problem because, on the one hand, it probably doesn't really raise the authority of Parliament if a member of the government comes in here and is unable to say straight sentences about his own bill. Perhaps it would help viewers, stakeholders, and even the writing of history through the minutes, if a member of the government would honor this institution with the fact that in 15 minutes he might tell us what the wallet is doing, what it is proposing and why he is proposing, and why he is asking Parliament to support it. But perhaps a more serious argument is that although TV broadcasts were shut down in 2010 or 2011, it is still assumed that in such professional policy laws, those affected, tens of thousands of soldiers or hundreds of thousands of family members, might be interested in what their fate will be, how their lives will change. Indeed, there is not a rule in this law that will change the lives, wages, working hours, and much more specifically for soldiers. I don't think it's fair for them to say on behalf of the Ministry what this law is all about. I don't think it's okay. And without any criticism, I know that it wasn't the current senior president that I wanted to appeal to the vigilance of the senior presidents, because I think that's not okay beyond house rules. In the first 12 minutes and 30 seconds, Mr Secretary of State also praised and thanked the staff, the police and the defence authorities for joining the latter, and the Secretary of State has identified the defence issue as a national matter. Thank you for your work, too, but my question is how you thank us for your work with this bill, Mr. Secretary of State. With this bill, which increases the excess service by about one third, from three hundred to four hundred hours, as has already been said, that means fifty days a year, how do they thank them for their service? You can say nice words, but you decide the fate of these people. If everything is all right with the military, and as Prime Minister has already said, how many tens of thousands of people are working and serving in the military, then why do we need to raise it to 400 hours in law? Not on a temporary basis, not on the basis of a coronal virus epidemic, but on the basis of a decision-making government mandate until the end of the year or until the end of the emergency, the number of hours that can be ordered will be increased, but from here on out, thank you very much, 400 hours. This is due to the Hungarian soldier as a thank-you from the Hungarian government. I think thanks are something else people imagine, maybe by raising or cutting overtime. There must be conceptual disturbances here. Now, I'm going to go through the points that are in the law, since the government has failed to do so, because maybe someone wants to know what's in the bill. One of the very big questions is that currently you can hire a candidate for military officer, a candidate for military Petty Officer as defined in the HM Regulation, a contract or a voluntary service, as well as employees of HM, or a professional transferred from a law enforcement body. According to their new proposal, as a professional, I quote: a person from a civil life. Period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, period, This can be found in the law about this particularity and with this broad explanation. What's this about, Mr. Secretary? Obviously, everyone understands that if you've been in contact with, in the field of defence during your life, even as a colleague of the Ministry, you can claim the right to join the army. But usually putting this one sentence into the law, and all this right now, starting as a petty officer or an officer, needs a minimum explanation. In our view, it would be necessary to put some detail or guarantee rules of this into the law, precisely because of what my good-looking lead speaker has already mentioned that it is a profession. People tend to serve as soldiers for the rest of their lives in time of peace after joining them, either until their retirement or the loss of their lives. In this situation, you can see that anyone who has fought through the training of an officer has gone through the ladder for decades, and then you can see that someone is coming there and installing it overnight as a colonel or even as a general, and forgive the expression whether they share the sense with other military leaders, I do not think it is healthy. And they don't even say a word about why that's necessary. We understand the one thing that law enforcement suffers from, and I think we know exactly that, yes, today there are special skills that the defence may not be able to produce from itself, or there is no time and opportunity; this happens primarily in the field of information technology. Well, let's at least put this in there or something, and don't get the feeling that you might want to be friends again, mates and Fanta, and that's what we'll be dealing with in the next period. Based on this sentence, practically anything can happen. The next point, which we think is in question or let's just say we don't like it, surely the government is pleased that, even in the case of conducting a service in a non-military educational institution, a time frame of service can be applied. At least there is no discussion here, and it is also stated here in the explanatory statement that this is because everyone may understand this, because the way for soldiers to work on Saturdays and Sundays, to perform service, without ordering over-service. This must have been included in the bill as part of a thank-you speech. For example, we cannot support this either, at least not without justification. The next point, which we would like to discuss, is to allow military leaders to be placed on the statute without justification, not only by the minister but also by the staff commander. I don't know if the Minister or perhaps the ex-minister could have made any sound argument, but this is one of the things that we might be convinced of, but we haven't heard such an argument yet. Otherwise, in any way, the extra license to withdraw the executive mandate without justification and to break someone's career back to the waist is still not close to our hearts. It is also a big question that we have not understood what volunteers are looking for at the CBI. This is the Military Homeland Security Service, isn't it? Perhaps this is a special and closed work and institution where it is difficult to conceptually imagine what volunteers are doing and how they are doing there. This proposal extends their weekly service performance to a maximum of 60 hours. It would be nice to know what experience this rule is based on. The removal of civil servants from the legal system can also be seen here. This is clearly not eligible at the principle level. In the present case, these workers are so far ahead that they will not simply be classified under the Labour Code, but they will be defence employees, which will entail more responsibility for them, which they may not want, and at some level will involve more opportunities than those who are simply thrown out of Mt. We have seen that in the case of public collection workers, this was simply done in this way. Orphanage is also eligible for full support for defence workers. If this was the only part of the bill, we would be very happy to vote for it. It is also eligible and welcome that the agreement on Hungarian-American defence cooperation will be included in this proposal at the legal level and at the right place. I have a specific question for you. That's 57. § (c) of the law is removed from the law, so the provision that the defence employee is entitled to unpaid leave until the third year of his child, which must be granted at a time corresponding to the request of the defence worker. If there's anything anyone can say to that, because there's nothing in the explanatory statement about why this legal institution is being set up. This could, in principle, have helped workers, especially mothers, by looking at it. It doesn't seem to replace anything. What is the reason for this? [[18.40]] Overall, a bit back to the mood at the end of agricultural legislation, Mr Secretary of State, there are a few points in the bill that are eligible, some points that I think are a category that does not trigger opposition at the level of principle, and if the government or the defence administration sees fit, then do so as a category, but there are two, at least two points in the bill that, while it is in this bill, cannot be supported: on the one hand, once again, to increase overtime by 30 percent without any compensation, from 300 to 400 hours, and, in its present state, without any restriction or justification, a proposal to appoint civilians as generals and military leaders. These are the two reasons why we will vote against this bill unless they are taken out of it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-05-05-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches, and one because a Member has spoken, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-147	Thank you very much. Let me say a few things to my fellow Member, István Simicskó. The baron, the prince, the order, the rank, was different, and I apologize if I said so in addition to the rank. The next question is 400 hours. It's true that being a soldier is a career, but forgive me, if you don't rest, you will die, because you must not forget that a soldier is also a biological being. So, since we're all biological beings, the biological needs of this kind naturally persist, and if you're going to have the soldier employed for seven days out of seven days, then his health will be ruined in such a way that he won't be able to perform the decades of service he's contracted for. The other is the issue of the provision of provisions, which, unfortunately, István Simicskó, my fellow Member, has been using. Don't patronize me. The assignment is that I can't give him a schedule. He's there, soldier, he's got skills, he's needed, we've trained him, he's been given tasks, and then suddenly, because of a professional disagreement, he says that you're not needed, and because the law also states that the time spent in the force of command doesn't count into progress, it breaks his entire career to such an extent, and as a wave, he suffers all the disadvantages that result from it, that I think it can't stay that way. I cannot imagine what the Secretary of State thinks, in this package of legislation, the gesture that soldiers have received, because I see that there is no gesture, but there is uncertainty. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-148	Thank you very much. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. It's time for the Democratic Coalition Congresswoman, Agnes Vadai. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Each time the leaders of the defence wallet, whether the minister or the secretary of state stand up, let's say, less often, and talk to opposition representatives in a somewhat instructive tone that the case of the defence, the national case, always comes to mind a cartoon picture, where a predator is eating the zebra and explaining that I am a vegan and you are vegan. I just wanted to say this picture... I know the Secretary of State is a pacalist, there's nothing wrong with that. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] The problem is that he comes here every single time and lectures us on what the national issue is. We know exactly what the national case is, but you think you're the only ones who know what the national case is. If the military's issue is a national matter, we consider it to be a national matter, and if we are the national parts of it this morning, we have not been able to respond to it very much, then we think that we have something to do with the military, and for example, when we ask at the meetings of the Defence and Police Committee about the various purchases mentioned by the Secretary of State, we have to answer not because it is appropriate to answer a question, but because we have to answer these questions because the purchases that you make by any law or decision are not from your money, but from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and you have a duty to account for this tax-paying money. It is true, what my fellow Members have said, let me be clear. The Secretary of State spoke for 14 minutes 48 seconds, 12 minutes 32 seconds of which it is important not to say this about the law because it was the exact measurement, I looked up, and during that time it was part of what he had to say, which I think was important, and this is to thank those who were doing their job during the outbreak, during the declared emergency, both soldiers, such as policemen, health workers and those working in agriculture. I would like to disappoint my fellow Member Simicskó: this debate, this will not be like the previous debate, and not only will it not be because the style of the defence portfolio has not been like that in recent times, but will not be like that, because, unlike the agricultural purse, where they can be open to our proposals, they do not speak to opposition representatives here. I am very pleased that the Member, Mr Secretary of State, talks about the Gyurcsány-Vadai-éra in each of his speeches, and I am honored to do so. I became Secretary of State for Defence on 1 July 2007 [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]] Thank you very much, I'm actually very proud of her, I was the first woman in this position, and since then we haven't seen a female leader at the head of the defense wallet. Allow me to inform you that the era that the Secretary of State spoke of as Gyurcsány-Vadai was able to be the only year in 2008, because I was not a State Secretary in the first half of 2007 and Ferenc Gyurcsány 2019 In the second half, there was no Prime Minister, so if we were fair, the Gyurcsány-Vadai was in 2008. I would like to inform this House that in 2008 the Gyurcsány-Vadai spent 1.2 percent of GDP on the Hungarian Defence Office, then 1.2 percent, then when you started to govern, 1.14 and then so beautifully reduced this spending on the ratio of GDP that we cried, literally. And do you know when the defense budget reached 1.2 percent of GDP for the first time? In 2018. It took a decade. So Gyurcsány-Vadai's was 1.2 percent of GDP. [[To István Szilárd Németh:]] I can't really talk about your worth yet, and I promise you, after 2022, I won't talk much, you can rest assured. He very well pointed out the importance of educators' role in the bill that has not yet been published, because this is not really what he is dealing with, and he specifically referred to the Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School. However, the Secretary of State has said several times here before the Parliament's plaza and in all other places that this is the high school where the students there played a bonding sex game under your supervision, and the director under whose direction this happened, you know when you were released from your job, so that you can get a new job at the defense wallet. They came to the Defense Commission on one occasion, where they reported what happened there, and never again since, even though we asked them to report on this matter. Now, if we're gonna talk again, because I have at least seven minutes to talk outside the law about the matter of defense, I think it's extremely important to develop the army. [[18.50]] I would like to say to Minister Simicskó that I have said as many times as Columbo's wife that the programme Zrínyi 2026: they talk about it a lot, but no one has actually seen it. You know what I saw from this program? During your ministry, there was a very nice colourful publication, I saw from the program Zrínyi 2026. We didn't see any other official government documents about it. By the way, I was happy with the defense proposal because I was hoping that this would be at least the case. But what's worse, we didn't get any information about the alleged purchases involved. Last time I asked Prime Minister about an alleged Turkish acquisition. I really hope I get an answer. Of course, it is possible to say what the Minister used to say that all parliamentary representatives can receive these purchases in accordance with the legislation. Now, let's look at the bill itself. I don't think that the orphans of defense workers were regulated in the way they were supposed to be, and I'm glad that this thing is being dealt with by the law. I'll add, I really hope that won't be necessary. I really, really want to hope that won't be necessary. In any case, it must be said that the defense wallet has been an unbroken practice to ensure that military workers and members of the professional staff, as well as the deceased soldiers and now the military workers, have always followed the lives of orphans, their futures, and have always made sure that these children feel that they will grow up without a father, but that the Hungarian Defence and Defence Department will not forget them; they will never be able to replace the lost parent, but will help them to make their future a little easier. I think it's a very important thing. In the same way, I think that there is no debate between us about making some kind of move forward on the agreement with the United States of America. If these were the two points in this bill, as has been said here by my fellow Members, there would be no debate. I would add that if Mr Secretary of State had said the same introduction to these two amendments, then we would consider the non-support of the bill because it is very tricky for you to talk about the nation here and always talk as if we were not part of it. He always comes here and acts like he's smarter than everyone else, and believe me, no, there are people far, far smarter than you, even the wallet, who should listen to his opinion every once in a while, but they don't. And that's a big problem. It works in agriculture because the Minister of Agriculture never thinks so, some members of the Agriculture Committee think so, but the Ministry doesn't think they're smarter than anyone else. I think it would be worth looking carefully at the agricultural purse sometimes. The bill is 9. Article 2 of the Act states that the text of the Government official of the Ministry is replaced by the text in the Ministry of Government, Political Service, Commissionership or Employment. I'd be very interested to know who these people are in political service, because, frankly, I've never heard of anything like this, but I'd like to know who they mean by that. And the same is reflected in point (c): political relations of service. I don't know what direction we're going, but it's pretty amazing. So I would very much like to see the Secretary of State's position. Several of my fellow Members have resented the 12th. The amendment in Section 2 of the Act to the effect that a civil life may be registered as an officer or a petty officer. In addition to what my fellow Members have said here, I would like to say to you that in the last ten years we have seen what will happen if a Prime Minister has a hobby, namely football. As a result, a significant part of the investment that could have gone to the hospital could have gone to the stadiums to buy hospital supplies. But I would like to hope that this amendment proposal and this idea are not because, let's say, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz or Árpád Habony think that there should be some other excitement in his life now, but he does not want to go through the stage that they are going through in the Hungarian Army, and how it would be nice to get into an officer's rank or rather an officer's rank and jump from civil life to the army immediately. I wouldn't recommend that. So I wouldn't recommend it! My fellow Members have already made it clear that a man who does his work fairly, because there are many in the army, they have to fight very hard for every single rank. Not only is it unfair, but it degrades this career, that if someone in civilian life, who is typically a kisser, is your kisser, it simply arrives and immediately lands in a position of petty officer or officer. I would think that was a really, really bad idea. And, of course, we can't just walk past over-service without saying a word. I think it was more talkable than anything, that, obviously, among the pro-government representatives, the rapporteur and the lead speaker of Fidesz didn't say a word about overtime. They talked about this law as if it were little flowers and little birds, and I don't know what little modifications that would make everyone very happy. Fellow Members! Do you think the National Assembly, the Hungarian Army and the defense workers are completely stupid? ! Right now, they're doing what trade unions, politicians, both inside and outside the country are protesting about raising overtime for 400 hours. I think that at a time when people see that there are Members sitting here in Parliament, I think there have been three or four cycles, and they haven't said a word, and they take the salary and I would like to say it, and then there is one among them, whose voice I met about a year ago, in the Defence and Police Committee, because until then he hasn't said a word, he's been sitting there on the Defence and Police Committee for almost a decade, never having spoken once, and then it's kind of repulsive and amazing that you think that the soldiers of the Hungarian Army and then you'll probably throw an extra 100 hours of overtime on everyone else. I agree with Mr Simicskó that the soldier at home is a soldier in his heart, but I think that there is still working time. So the two are not mutually exclusive, the soldiers need to rest, and an eviscerated soldier will not be able to protect his family, he will not be able to defend his country. Therefore, I would like to ask you, pro-government representatives, if you do not change anything else, to think about this, not to introduce 400 hours of overtime, because it will not be good for the Hungarian Defence Forces, even if I understand the justification that the Hungarian Defence Office is suffering from a very serious shortage of staff, which is very regrettable. However, I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that this problem will not be solved now. The Hungarian Defence Office [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] you cannot be a member of anyone, and I will talk about this in a later speech. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-05-150	Thank you very much. László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP group, is next as lead speaker. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm not gonna talk about 15 minutes. Here we have heard very serious professional criticisms and analyses of the bill. At the same time, I would like to refer back to Mr Secretary of State's exposé, if that can be seen as such. Mr Secretary of State began his speech by saying how good it was to listen to the spirit and tone of the previous agricultural debate, and I can confirm that. And I would add that, for several hours in this Chamber, we have heard such a high-quality professional debate, which was indeed forward-looking. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea nods.]] At the same time, Mr Secretary of State, this is what Minister István Nagy had to do with his habitus, his attitude, and the fact that the pro-government representatives also dealt with policy debates, so they said, they used the right tone; they didn't speak about Gergely Christmas, they didn't try to generate an actual political speech and debate from such a topic. In relation to the bill, my fellow opposition members, in fact repeating each other, have already said what we think is about what the positives that can naturally be supported are important and forward-looking steps; at the same time, the steps that make this proposal impossible to vote for and the faction of the LMP cannot vote for. [[19.00]] Here, I would also highlight the extent of the over-service, the increase in it, and also what has already been said by the Member who spoke before me, that it also includes an amendment that the stockier can be employed on weekends, and that does not count as overtime, as an over-service. It is clear that this proposal, as my fellow Member has put it, is trying to adapt the regulation to a deteriorating situation, and this is in no way acceptable. Indeed, it would be time to appreciate the stock, to appreciate the people who truly regard the service of the country as a profession, and take a risk, and risk their lives in order to protect the safety of the Hungarian people. I do not wish to analyze how many minutes Mr Secretary of State talked about the bill in his 15-minute exposé if he had talked for 15 minutes about thanking these people and not just the soldiers, but everyone who works for our security, law enforcement workers and firefighters, then I think it is worth 15 minutes on the part of a State Secretary to thank him. At the same time, it would be the forward-looking point in the current state of the debate, because very important issues have been formulated by my fellow Members, specifically Mr Harangozó, if Mr Secretary of State now tried to answer these questions in the course of the debate, he would try to explain why these proposals have come to the House in this way, and not just another political speech that the opposition cannot respond to. I would also like to join those who thank you for your sacrificial work, especially in such an epidemic situation for everyone who works for the safety of the Hungarian people. I should also like to refer a little back to Mr Simicskó's speech by former Minister. I think that we are really talking about a sense of professionalism here, and indeed these people have sworn to serve the country, and therefore we must have enormous respect for them, but at the same time it is justified to express respect for the material things that you now have the opportunity to do. I think that in the last ten years there would have been plenty of opportunities, and it is now a task for you to give this appreciation. Soldiers have families, soldiers must take care of their children. This respect must be given to them, and this task cannot keep you waiting. Over the past period, Minister Kasler has had a rather shocking statement about the wage-setting of health workers that this committed work cannot be paid with money. Indeed, this commitment and this sense of professionalism cannot be paid with money, but it can be tried. You can try to give the fee and wages that are proportional to, or at least close to, the level that the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation expect from these people who actually pursue it as a profession. So I can say that although there are positive elements of the law, at the same time because of these two points, basically because of the extension of the over-service, the LMP fraction cannot vote for this. Once again, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that there is a ministry, such as the Ministry of Agriculture, which is open to view the opposition as a partner, open to policy debates, substantive discussion of proposals and possible reception of proposals. I would also suggest that you give yourself a chance to see if you can do the same, in case you find, after your openness, that the opposition is able and willing to cooperate with you on a national matter. I think there have been positive examples of this. So you, for example, could learn from the Ministry of Agriculture in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-152	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, if you'd like to reflect. [[Németh Szilárd István: Yes.]] Yes, please.
u2020-05-05-153	Thank you. I would just like to respond in a few thoughts to the comments that have been made here. Thank you all very much for your comments. I'd answer in order. Varga-Damm Andrea asks why I'm not talking about the law that lies before us. Well, that's what I've been talking about the whole time. For 15 minutes I talked about the effect of the law, and about the tasks that are in front of the Hungarian Defence Office in such an emergency, in a special legal order. These tasks are carried out by our soldiers, our soldiers, up-to-date, accurate, eligible, even other superlatives. There are tasks we can't do without them. I get a report every day, which, of course, the members of the committee will receive. I am just saying to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, who is asking us for information, for example, but has not come to the last meeting of the Defence and Police Committee. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Nana! Dr. Agnes Vadai: You weren't there!]] It's hard to get information at the committee meeting when I'm not there. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No information!]] But each of these reports will, of course, be received by the committee and read by them at the Commission secretariat. There are detailed, daily assignments that I was talking about, not by accident. We don't need to talk about legislation in Parliament, it's right here. Congressman Bell has already evaporated from here, but he was the one who called to account why the soldiers weren't in front of the screens, and I'm not going to tell you what's in this law. Excuse me, you're on the wrong horse. This is not the time to tell the soldiers. We agreed on this. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] This bill didn't come to Parliament like that. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó enters the Chamber. Nacsa Lőrinc: Here it is!]] The bill didn't come in front of Parliament this morning, and we woke up this morning, and we'd have to submit it, and then we'd discuss it here. It's a long month's work. This is a very long analysis work, it was also an analysis work at legal level, and, of course, at the level of day-to-day operation. I told you from the beginning that we had gathered the experience and that what meant hiatus, including the provision of orphanage to the children and orphans of the deceased military workers, we were now able to infiltrate it. By the way, we should not have applied this luckily, and I agree that we hope that we do not need it in the future either, but we have now created the legal option at the legal level. What is the purpose of this? I have told you what its purpose is, and I have made it clear in the definition of what I think about national affairs, national issues of defence. I'd like to say that again. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: More pacals!]] You can patch it, you can sink it to this level, but I don't think it's worth it, my predecessor was kind. By the way, the lady here who plays pacal was a political secretary of state for the ministry in which I am serving as Parliamentary Secretary of State today. He was my predecessor in any way. I think this has been very hard on the Hungarian Defence Service, by the way. We have heard from you all kinds of GDP figures, which, of course, you forgot to tell us that in those GDP figures, there was also provision for the retirement of soldiers, and today there is no such thing. It is a significant amount and changes GDP significantly. Moreover, the GDP that has been declining continuously has been difficult to get as much money to the defence as the GDP that is, by the way, constantly growing. Then the lack of will was the opposite, for they were not thinking in a strong national army, but in the legacy of the entire army. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: One person! Me, I've been thinking.]] You can see that when all the war technology was abandoned, sold [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I sold it!]] Locked up barracks, 20 barracks. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm closed! Soros!]] They've shut down all the military high schools. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Me!]] And college, and so on, we can continue. They fed people with an insanity that if something went wrong, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's healthy.]] In Hungary, NATO will protect us. That, of course, is not true. But I think it's a waste of energy. Let me tell you one more time what I said. By the way, in this matter, you are continuing in full what you are always dealing with: you are constantly lying, you are saying something quite different. I'm gonna tell you literally what was good? The image of the Hungarian National Army, the Hungarian Defence Forces, has been drawn up, which is growing in its capacity, and which carries on the traditions of the soldiers, and which is recognised and respected by the Hungarian people, and whose development, regardless of party affiliation, must also be assisted by us Parliamentary Members. Here I also quoted Dezső Szabó that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians! [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Do you understand me, too?]] Of course, that's what we're talking about. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is where the problems begin!]] But you're lying to me the opposite. Mr President, I have listened to all the slanders of the congresswoman. I sat here quietly. I had something to say to you. Please warn the congresswoman. [[19.10]]
u2020-05-05-154	The thing is, I'm warning everyone outside the Secretary of State who's talking right now.
u2020-05-05-155	[[Parallel to the president:]] The primary aim of the amendments is to reduce bureaucracy, simplify and clarify, thus helping to improve the Hungarian Defence Service, I cannot find Andrea Varga-Damm here either, but I do not see it, and I say it to her, because we did not define the purpose and strengthening it in order to achieve the highest possible level of the tasks of the Fundamental Law, both in peace time and in special legal order, which is today. And the nine laws that have been amended in this bill serve precisely this purpose: it would make life easier, it would make it easier to enter the army, and it would record remaining there. We want recruitment to be successful, and recruitment is successful if those who came into the Hungarian Defence Office, in a very strong oath offering to sacrifice their lives in order to protect their country, undertake this task, stay there, and have a lifetime career to themselves. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws to strengthen the security of citizens will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/10309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, the author. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Security has become a particularly important Community value in the difficult times caused by the pandemic. The bill to be negotiated contains a number of amendments aimed at improving the security of citizens and simplifying, rationalising and facilitating electronic administration of individual public affairs. Practice in the preparation of the law of the Ministry of the Interior, in the case of two-thirds laws, we ask the opinion of the parliamentary parties in advance. The aim of this consultation is to create the best regulation for Hungary and the Hungarian people. In this context, we take into account the proposals that we consider to serve this purpose. In view of this, on 23 April 2020 we held a seven-party consultation with the parliamentary parties in the Ministry of the Interior, where we jointly discussed this package of laws submitted to this House. In doing so, we asked the participants to send their suggestions and opinions. An amendment has been tabled by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, Member Tamás Harangozó and Member Lajos Kósa, which we also thank. In view of the deadline, we were able to take into account the proposals made by Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm before the submission. By adopting its proposal, we included in the standard the transitional period until 31 December 2022 in relation to the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies, in relation to the conflict of interests of the professional staff. President Lajos Kósa's proposal will be supported and accepted in the detailed debate. Dr. Tamás Harangozó's proposals came later, and I would like to respond to them now. We thank you for your suggestion on driving schools, and we consider the provisions to be supported, so we have sent them to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology in charge of professional management for consideration. As regards the dismantling of the bill, it is no longer possible to do so at this stage of the debate. However, I note that the legislative technique in question is aimed at reviewing a number of existing legislation on a specific basis, and that certain points of different laws are modified for a regulatory purpose only, so that their own management would significantly burden Parliament. Turning to the proposal, I would like to start with the fundamental provisions. It is of particular importance to mention the amendment of the law on the police, among the fundamental provisions. First of all, it contains an amendment to the reliability assessment, as it expands the range of protected stocks for certain organisations, specifically those with competence in the field of public procurement procedures, as well as those with tasks related to the technical examination of vehicles and the environmental review of vehicles. The reason for this is that the police have found a series of crimes in which they have obtained a license with bribery. It is important for us not to engage in traffic with a vehicle that endangers the life and physical integrity of the driver and others. A technical amendment has also been included in the bill, which is linked to the National Defence Service. The concept previously called the "trap of an object" is renamed for the construction of an artificial life situation. The change in the education of police officers makes the images and recordings produced by the police unfit for identification and use. This training is necessary for the presentation of life situations, which may violate personality rights, but we would like to make it possible, of course, to ensure that the persons on the recording are not recognizable. Dear Parliament, The other fundamental provision in the proposal is the amendment of the law on national security services. In this context, it is necessary to set up the Cybersecurity Centre and Research Institute in the National Security Service, which can keep pace with the development of information technology. The biggest challenge in the development of IT is to counter attacks that want to get different viruses into central computers. This can, in particular, cause enormous damage in areas where, for example, lifesaving machines are needed. The goal is that if such an attack comes, we can provide an appropriate answer. At the moment, this is possible under the legal aid agreement, but the problem is that such an attack takes about 10-15 minutes, up to 20 minutes, but it takes a lot more time to stop it, so it is necessary to act quickly and easily against such attacks. In such cases, the organisation may order that the data or service published via the electronic communications network be temporarily unavailable if it detects an event threatening the security of the cyberspace. This measure is subject to the obligation of the electronic communications service provider and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is involved in its implementation. The period of temporary inaccessibility shall be a maximum of 90 days, which may, where appropriate, be extended by an additional 90 days. Here I would like to respond to Mr Harangozó's criticism of this, which he said at the conciliation. As regards temporary inaccessibleness, we inform you that the law on criminal proceedings is not the analogy of the proposed regulation, but the temporary inaccessibleness of electronic data under the law on the organisation of gambling. The purpose of the proposed provision is to render it inaccessible for the necessary time and to the extent necessary, rather than to make it permanently unavailable or to initiate removal or criminal prosecution. The conceptual rethink of the norm text is not necessary in our view, as it is only applied for the necessary time in connection with a specific security event. In order to stop the attack from cyberspace, our position on the measures taken by the National Security Service is that the basic rules and procedures, guarantee guarantees, are properly included in the proposed legislation. It is a guarantee that the National Security Service would only be entitled to implement the measures in question, since the imposition of measures would not fall within its remit, and it would also ensure the application of the principles of gradualness, necessity and proportionality. The bill also provides an opportunity for TIBEK, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre, to identify secret information collections, investigations and covert tool applications carried out in parallel by other bodies and prosecutors. With regard to Mr Bellozó's point in this regard, the Minister has already made the arguments in the seven-party conciliation, which confirm the proposal, and I would also confirm that. The amendment consciously does not make the prosecution the Nbtv. As a co-operative body within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the powers of TIBEK in relation to the Public Prosecutor's Office only cover the identification of parallel investigations, preparatory procedures, secret information collections and covert tool applications and the provision of clarification information to increase the effectiveness of prosecution procedures. It is an important guarantee that TIBEK may not use the information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office for other purposes. In addition, the amendment expands the group of jobs subject to national security control. It is important to point out that the amendment will name the President and Vice-President of the Economic Competition Authority during the term of office under national security protection. [[19.20]] The amendment of the Asylum Act also concerns fundamental provisions. In the future, Dublin detention will not only be used to transfer as a result of the Dublin procedure, but also to carry out the Dublin procedure itself. This can be done if a foreign national has not submitted an asylum application in Hungary, and it can be assumed that a transfer to Dublin may be possible in the event of a serious risk of absconding. We also consider it necessary for asylum detention to be carried out in the future by the asylum authority, with the assistance of the police, in an exceptionally justified case, in a health institution where the health condition, illness and injury of the person concerned requires the placement in such an institution. Another fundamental provision is the amendment of the Law on the identification, designation and protection of vital systems and facilities, and the chapter on exceptional measures that may be introduced in a special legal order is added. In Hungary, there are several factories in the pharmaceutical industry, which produce raw materials, tablets and injections, which are vital for the proper care of patients during the coronal virus epidemic. For several countries, we have seen that the necessary raw materials are being used to seal the cheese for them so that they can feed their own citizens, and it is therefore essential to seize the quantity of medicinal products specifically required for the duration of the epidemic in proportion to the expected diseases. This amendment is particularly necessary here in order to protect the health of Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, If we were to accept Mr Harangozó's proposal for a special legal order and unlimited authorisation, we would already have a static set of criteria for each special legal order that would try to regulate a dynamically changing situation. For each special legal order, other and other entitlements shall be granted in response to the situation in that special legal order. These were amendments to the main provisions. Further, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you other important amendments. According to the amendment of the Road Transport Act, as of 1 January 2023 drivers will not be required to carry the driving licence and the registration, the existence and validity of the driving documents will be checked from the electronic register. The amendment makes it easier to carry out police certification. However, as the provision concerns domestic driving, we will continue to need these documents at hand abroad. The amendment also makes it easier to manage drivers: from 1 February 2021, the procedure for issuing the first driving licence and registration will be fully electronic. The purpose of this is to ensure that the qualified person receives the registration certificate and the driving licence as soon as possible. At the moment of the successful examination, the fact of it will be recorded in the IT system, so it will be possible to validate the driving licence and registration directly after the successful test. We believe that this is a proposal that can be supported by everyone, since it is equally beneficial for everyone. This is also what we have been trying to do in drawing up all the parts of the bill. Dear Parliament, A new register has been created in the amendment of the Criminal Records Act to detect unharmed trace contamination, thus making it easier to identify the perpetrator. The procedure thus conducted will be more time- and cost-effective. The law on the APB will establish the legal basis for the purpose-bound data processing. The purpose of the amendment is to facilitate the tracing of missing persons and the identification of their identity. We had to use the principles of necessity and purpose to target the DNA profile of missing persons, unknown bodies and relatives, increasing the chances of identifying the bodies and the successful and successful search for the deceased. The amendments to the Act on facial analysis are intended to increase the results of facial analysis activities. In this context, the source register of the facial profile register will be expanded to assist in the professional support of law enforcement, crime prevention and activities in migration processes. Dear Parliament, Several laws are amended by the NAVASZ project entitled "Development and Renewal of the National Data Protection Registers', whose objective is to reorganise the administrative procedure for each specific group of cases and to electronicise cases, which will result in time efficiency on the part of both the administrators and the client. Within the framework of the project, the professional system of home address, document and vehicle management records will be renewed, thereby increasing the level of IT security and increasing the cooperation of registers. In the context of the amendment to the Passenger Services Act, it should be pointed out that public passenger transport services will also be available with the electronic identity card. This makes travel entitlement easier to verify. According to the amendment of the Public Employment Act, the exclusion from public employment for a period of three months may take place in the event of a final infringement resulting from an irregular living environment. Contrary to previous regulations, a procedural guarantee, once again, is a procedural guarantee that exclusion can only take place in a final decision by the authority; it can be issued by the chief official, by the government office or by the notary in the event of an established infringement and in the event of an emergency in the event of an irregular environment. The exclusion may be applied to any person involved in public employment regardless of the property, social status or gender or age. The aim is to maintain our environment and our immediate habitat and to improve the image of the country. It was included in the package before the submission, as a positive measure in this bill, by extending the time limit for the authorisation of water facilities and wells for groundwater extraction under the Water Management Act. Due to the pandemic, it is also appropriate to facilitate the obligation of citizens in the field of water, and to notify unauthorized wells for groundwater abstraction, the legislator would provide a three-year longer time limit. It is proposed that this is the so-called well-notification moratorium. Therefore, the subsequent consultation of illegally established wells may be initiated without penalty until 31 December 2023 instead of the deadline until 31 December 2020. Therefore, this deadline will be extended by three years if the proposal is adopted. Please support this as well. The extension of the deadline, and this can be done without penalty, establishes a favourable rule for the applicant and should therefore also apply to existing procedures. The aim of this measure is to encourage illegal water users to authorise their wells to the public authorities in order to clarify the register of wells that meet household water requirements. Another goal is to detect deeper and poorly designed wells, to reduce contamination of the layers that provide cleaner drinking water. The European Union also wants to meet its legal harmonisation requirements. In this context, the legislative harmonisation clause of certain laws will also be supplemented. Dear Parliament, The adoption of the bill would strengthen the security of citizens, and I started by saying that security is the most important Community value in this pandemic time and at all times. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Mr Miklós Simon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, is the first. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-159	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard in the Parliamentary Exposition of the Secretary of State, the bill is an extremely comprehensive package of amendments, a total of 38 laws are opened in the proposal, and a large part of these amendments are merely technical. The Secretary of State has already highlighted the most important amendments to the proposal. I would just like to mention a few details which, in line with what has been said, have already been mentioned in the preliminary discussions on the proposal. Overall, I think it is important to note that in all cases the amendments are made in order to make the various work processes and cooperations more effective or to address problems that have arisen during the practice of law enforcement so far. [[19.30]] The first point I highlight is the changes affecting the driver's license and registration. In my opinion, the expenditure procedure for these documents will be fully electronic by this time in a year's time, which will allow drivers not to necessarily have to carry the documents or to show them during a road inspection. This change will be a great relief for all domestic drivers. In parallel, the service identifier to be introduced in passenger transport is another step in ensuring that travel rights can only be checked by e-personal use of public transport. So it can be said that the package of proposals before us is important for almost all Hungarian road users, whether they travel by car or by public transport. The proposal contains similar changes that bring about a positive change for many of our countrymen in the context of the NAVY project aimed at rationalising certain public registers. It simplifies and is also made available by electronic means to request and replace certain documents. I also consider it important to make amendments to make the work of investigative bodies more effective. The establishment of an elimination register, the extension of the data sources of the facial analysis register, the new rules on the handling of biometric data on missing persons and their relatives, and even the addition of rules on the closure of the asylum law, serve this purpose. The latter may have the greatest role to play in strengthening the security of citizens, as the migratory pressure has continued to increase over the past period, even if it is less perceived because of the current epidemic situation and it remains of utmost importance to establish the exact identity of asylum seekers as quickly as possible. It is very often the case that asylum seekers want to hide their identity from the authorities for one reason or another, which is what this proposal is trying to remedy. I would also like to highlight the amendments to the establishment of a cybersecurity centre and research institute and the provisions ensuring more effective action against cyber attacks, which will allow a much faster and more effective response in cases where some of our vital IT systems are being attacked. I would like to thank the authors for submitting this comprehensive proposal, and the Fidesz fraction supports the bill. I respectfully ask my fellow opposition Members to make a professional decision on the support of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-160	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-05-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is true, what you said in the Minister of State's exposé, that the Minister of Interior gave the representatives of all seven factions the opportunity to get to know this bill a little before the submission, or to try to make the amendments that we feel can improve the proposal. It was also an honor to have my colleague Tamás Harangozó and my name highlighted at the meeting, when he spoke about the fact that he decided that there would be a consultation before the submission, because we earlier, when the conciliation was held after the submission, contested this somewhat, especially in the case of large salad laws. It is rare, by the way, for the government to accept the request or comment of an opposition representative at all. When I took this 192 amendment of 37 laws into my hands, it came to my mind that if nature had as many laws as the state, God would not be able to rule it. However, regardless of the reason for all the changes it serves in these proposals, we must state that legislation already introduces a number of new laws and new rules, which I cannot imagine that simple employees, all those who have to implement these extremely complex rules, can really fight it and not generate uncertainty. But it is also a fact that life is always proof of how a proposal will be put into practice. It regulates very many kinds of living conditions, and I do not want to highlight the provisions of all 37 laws, so I am only bringing a few here. Electronic information security is one part of the proposal, which was made because, in the infringement procedure 2019/2213, it was established that we had failed to carry out the transmissions of information on the basis of which the Commission could have carried out an assessment of whether the Directive, which provides for the conditions of operation, had been implemented. So this part of the proposal is definitely the result of infringement proceedings. It is a serious and detailed element of the organizational and legal development of the APB system, which is certainly welcome when we talk about increasing the detection efficiency of criminal offences, and we want citizens who commit crimes to avoid being able to escape the effectiveness of the APB. Life will always prove that these proposals were justified or not justified. I, too, always say to the Minister of the Interior that I ask that in some way the provisions restricting the autonomy of persons never go beyond the limit that they can be classified as harassment. So far, we have seen that the practice has gone this way, and there are no unreasonable stalking procedures. The rationalisation of public registers is also an important element of this proposal, the acceleration of the issue of different certificates is actually a social need, and today, in the world of IT, I think that while technically this can be resolved, it is good to have a legislative proposal to do so. In the amendment of the police law, there was a paragraph 7 of the police law. Paragraph 1 (c) (aa), which was also contested by President Lajos Kósa, not only by me, but also by President of the Defence Commission, according to which the reliability assessment of special-funded medicines and medical devices as suppliers would be an exception to the reliability assessment of the organisation itself. I myself have asked that this amendment be born, i.e. taken out as an exception. The Ministry didn't accept it. In fact, we did not get an explanation at the meeting, but what we need to know is that if I could now decide, for example, to use a reliability test against whom, precisely because special-funded medicines and medical devices, if not for other reasons, have a serious risk at least because of their value, because efficiency and value go hand in hand with such treatments, I think that these organisations might even more justify doing so. We didn't get much of an explanation, but I can only hope that this exception wasn't generated by some kind of lobbyist. [[19.40]] A very important element of the proposal is the legislation on water management, and this has a very interesting element, and this is the renovation of sewer systems. In our country, much of the channels or sewerage systems are financed from public or EU funds, and indeed we often encounter the question that the sewer system or part of it is not state-owned, but private. As public funding or EU funding is, as a rule, possible on state property, a new proposal has therefore been submitted in order to resolve this in some way. The property law prohibits the creation of mixed property, i.e. public and private property, for example, as a result of such an investment, since the Civil Code already states that it can be created as a result of the construction, so the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that, in the event that private investments are financed from public or EU funds, these sewerage systems are somehow owned by the State. I must say, however, that I should like to add to the reasoning that, although it is true that EU and state aid should not be carried out on private property, when it comes to the development of private companies with public funds of hundreds of billions forints, they should remain private, then this line of thought and I stress that this should not be addressed to the Ministry of Interior and not to the Secretary of State in the whole government as an approach. After all, if we look at those who receive state aid, for example, the rates and the wealth that comes out of it, and the contribution that the private person or private organisation has provided, if I look at those ratios, then the use of public resources to increase private ownership is raging in Hungary. Here comes the next item, the public employment issue. What I know is that even on the opposition side, we will have a debate between ourselves on the part of which you say that public employment can be excluded if your own port is messy. I must say that I am in favour of this and I have said this to the Minister of the Interior, not because in any way I think that the public worker can't find another job, but we must admit that the whole country is a mess and a ruler of filth. It's not a matter of money tidying up around us. It's not a question of money to mow the lawn. It is not a matter of money, vinegar and water to keep the environment clean. As a lawyer, I must say, the reason I am so sensitive to this question is because I've been on numerous field visits during my practice, and many times I've been in the dust or apartments of high intellectuals, and I've been amazed at the mess and the thank you a lot. I think that whoever has a messy environment is also a ghost, so I can't believe that a man in a messy environment has a clear mind. I can't believe it! And nobody even explains to me that there's always a mess around geniuses. It's true that there's always a mess on my desk, but around the desk there's order and cleanliness. Forgive me for bringing such a speech to this House in my speech, but, after all, life comes into Parliament, and from the walls of Parliament we want things to go out that have a positive impact on life and people's everyday lives. I asked the Minister of the Interior to keep this line of thought going, so not just the civil servants. Let's punish him if his front desk isn't okay, though I think there's not enough for civil servants. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Public employee.]] He has his own front desk, and I definitely think it's to make the settlements look really beautiful. When Austria has extremely nice dust, the yard may be messy in the back, but we come across the street with clean and renovated facades, then it should not be the first impression of the foreigner that, oh, I must have come to another country, because here there are lots of land where, at a height of three feet, the eyes of all kinds of building materials rule. So it is highly likely that we will not agree with opposition parties on this issue, but I am certainly in favour of strictness on this issue. The other question is Paks, classified data protection. I must say that, unfortunately, at the conciliation, I did not quite understand what this was about, and I did not find out very much from the proposal. Let me ask the Secretary of State to speak a little more circumstantially on this issue, if not at any other time, because we understand that the security certificate, if no objection has been found, must be issued, so far, I do not understand why this is relevant at this moment, and I do not understand what the guarantee is that it is, in any case, a security for citizens, that, as a result of such an extremely dangerous operation, there cannot be accidents that can then kill people's lives. It is also true that I said in the conciliation that the International Atomic Energy Agency has such a strict set of conditions that a Hungarian authority can issue any security certificate if it overrides this and says that this is not enough, so there is a strong security element. A serious element of the legislation is the rules for a more efficient operation of the National Security Service; it cannot be argued with, it is very important that workers in this organisation and procedures are of such high quality that they can work effectively. The development of the criminal record system by means of technical progress and thus the mapping of legislation is justified, and life will decide how successful it has been. Indeed, the amendment of the Violation Act required changes and improvements in the issues raised. International legal aid is a question of constant debate and is very often ineffective in practice, so I understand this regulatory need. Identification and designation of vital systems. The coronal virus epidemic brought with it that the government had this legislation, which was not yesterday, because it was an 8-year-old law; we were standing there at once because of the coronal virus epidemic before the vital systems and institutions that could serve to eradicate it, resist it and then eliminate the consequences of the coronal virus epidemic, and the government applied the rules that it introduced bravely. There is no question that these institutions must be registered, identified and used in all countries if we have to overcome a disaster. I think these rules are very strict, very restrictive, but we hope that they will always be fair in practice. Two questions were accepted from my proposals by the government. One is the possibility of dismissal after certification. Several of us have found the condition very strict that, if the first rating is not so good, the person in service can be dismissed. The milder provisions have been included in this proposal, so I thank you for the fact that we have been able to influence the position of the wallet at all. Finally, I thank you for the acceptance of the portfolio, and this is the fact that the representatives of professional staff in several farming organisations hold a leading position or supervisory board membership, and that, apart from professionally supervised state firms, these officials should terminate this relationship. The proposal was very liberal, and he wanted it until 31 December 2025, and I replied that if this demand had already been made, then why would it have to wait five years, so, after all, the wallet set a much shorter but more efficient time. I have to say, it's always refreshing, especially after a defense wallet, to discuss the proposals of the internal affairs portfolio. We hope that everything that is intended for the wallet will be achieved by legislation and that everything that was intended will be in the interests of citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-05-162	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go. [[19.50]]
u2020-05-05-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As my fellow Members have said earlier, we are dealing with a very extensive, large-scale legislative amendment here. On the one hand, it includes changes to the safety of network and information systems for the purposes of EU harmonisation, the procedure for the designation of essential constituents, the modification of its organisation system, as well as amendments in support of a number of enforcement practices, which we particularly welcome. On the other hand, the aim of the bill is also to establish rules on the elimination register. In addition, a legal legal basis for the purpose of the biometric data on missing persons, unknown bodies and parts of bodies, as well as for the purpose of the DNA profile of the biological relatives of missing persons, the identification of unknown bodies, and the search for missing persons will be established. The law on facial image analysis records and facial image analysis systems is also amended to extend the source register of the facial profile register. The bill includes the so-called NAVASZ project, the necessary changes to the implementation of the national data service development project, as well as a number of minor amendments to the current bill, which are minimal text-focusing, simplification and EU legislative harmonisation amendments, which would be unduly negotiated in a separate bill, are so small, are technical, text-like and for legal harmonisation purposes. As my opposition colleague acknowledged, the preparation of this bill was preceded by serious professional work, serious discussions, serious preparation, and we thank the staff of the Ministry of Interior. The common point in many chapters of the bill is that each amendment simplifies the daily lives of citizens and authorities, facilitates and reduces bureaucracy, administrative burdens and the safety of Hungarian people. Personally, I am a big and enthusiastic supporter of all legislative proposals aimed at cutting red tape or reducing administrative burdens, because I think that, although we have taken a lot of steps in recent years through cutting red tape, there are still areas ahead of us where further action can be taken. I think that the best way to make citizens' lives easier is to take a number of administrative burdens, unnecessary bureaucratic steps off their shoulders, not to tire them out, so that the public system can work more effectively, and citizens will also have easier lives. So I read with great enthusiasm every bill containing administrative or bureaucracy cuts. Two of the amendments I would like to highlight changes in people's everyday lives, changes to the NAVÁS project and to the driving licence. The objective of the NAVY project is to significantly reduce administrative time by electronicising cases on the part of both the administrator and the client for certain groups of cases. This will save both citizens and managing authorities considerable time and energy, reduce burdens and deal with more cases in electronic form than before. Simple, transparent electronic administration in Hungary is now available in a wide range of cases, thanks to significant bureaucracy reduction efforts in recent years. I also welcome the change that has been introduced among the public workers. My colleague, Mr Varga-Damm Andrea, said that there were civil servants, but this amendment applies to the public workers. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I am also absolutely in favour of, and I agree with, the arguments listed by the Member. While in 2010 the application for a simple personal document took an infinitely long and complicated torturing, almost all administration and documents were subject to a fee, by now most cases can be handled online for free, on simple, transparent and user-friendly surfaces. The wider scope of electronic administration in the current emergency situation is particularly relevant when we need to minimise the number of personalised administrations. The bill will further simplify the procedures related to driving licences. From 1 February 2021, the procedure for issuing the first driving licence will be fully electronised. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the driver is not obliged to carry the driving licence and the registration certificate already issued during domestic driving and that the existence of the documents can be verified from the register. Furthermore, the trend for the reduction of taxes continues, this time a reduced lot will be established if the lost passports are replaced. In recent years, the admission procedure, the first license, the identity card, the address card and the student card, as well as a number of administration procedures, have become free of charge for all Hungarian citizens. The KDNP fraction supports the bill to reduce red tape, reduce administrative burdens, develop IT systems and strengthen the security of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-164	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2020-05-05-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. There is indeed a very large package of proposals ahead of us, isn't it, 37 we think that there is a law in the salad law, and what I'm going to talk about is that the vast majority of the decisive ones are in a completely distinct, completely different field, and it gives us, for example, serious tools in the area of national security, which, we think, would understand a separate law, a separate debate, and, as it has come from the expo of the so far Secretary of State or from the speech of opposition to date, it is very difficult to enshrine even legitimate criticisms in 15 minutes, not that we can talk about it properly, in substance. Technically, if we read the address of the 37 laws and the first two lines, it would be 15 minutes. But then let me point out a few things that remain doubtful to us. First of all, I will not talk about it for a long time and forgive me for what is eligible. For example, I would like to highlight the simplification of the aforementioned documents or issues concerning harmonisation issues, coherence or other simplification and deregulation issues. They're eligible, obviously I'm not going to mention that right now. What I think is important is that it should be said in Parliament, one of which is in relation to the Information and Crime Analysis Centre for Counter-Terrorism, i.e. TIBEK, that when it was set up, the prosecutor's office was excluded from the list of cooperating bodies in the National Security Act to whom the analytical, information and coordination activities of the new national security service were extended. The investigative activities of prosecutors constitute a significant part of the investigation of persons in law enforcement bodies and persons with immunity rights, and I am not talking primarily about ourselves, representatives, judges and prosecutors. So it would obviously be in the best interest of the proceedings if, for example, and obviously this was also mentioned in the conciliation, the investigating prosecutors, if they were working for a police officer, even for corruption, another law enforcement agency would have access to this data, information that this secret investigation, secret reconnaissance work was being carried out against him. You intend to resolve this in the bill because you acknowledge that this is a problem, that in the regulation on national security, particularly citizens' privacy and all kinds of security measures, you write that the two bodies will lay down in a cooperation agreement the scope of data that they provide to each other and which they do not. On this subject, I continue to say, Mr Secretary of State, that it may be complicated regulation, it may take more time to think about it, it may take a little more time to invest in it, or a little more energy, but I think it is nonsense that, in one of the most important matters covered by warranty rules, the use of secret service tools, and the fact that this information is shared with whom, in this subject, we write a sentence in a two-thirds law that will agree between them what they share with each other and what they do not. That's the best way to make the entire National Security Act out of this one pass that everyone will agree on everything, and I'll kiss you. I do not think this is good, Mr Secretary, and we continue to suggest that this should not remain so. It is not possible to entrust to the current Chief of Police or TIBEK and the current Attorney General the arrangements they conclude. In my opinion, the Hungarian Parliament can't release this guarantee rule from its hands in order to protect its citizens with such a rough sentence. That's our point. Cyber security is the 21st. One of the most important strategic issues of the 20th century, we also agree on this; that national security services should be given a greater tool to protect the state or even to protect citizens' lives and safety against certain attacks. [[20.00]] In this respect, the proposal is set out in Article 8 of the National Security Act. Paragraph 7 (b) introduces a very powerful instrument in the hands of the National Security Service, since the possibility of active action against attacks cannot be challenged in itself, but the legal conditions of its application should be further specified in the draft. The need for this is well demonstrated by the fact that while the Ibtv. very broad definitions of threats, risks, security incidents, while the National Security Act does not even describe the conditions for active action and the attack to be certified. I'm sure it's boring, as I say, trying to say it in Hungarian so everyone can understand. So it is not in the law what is the case when the National Security Service can use these very powerful tools, whereas in Ibtv, they are specifically defined what the poet understands in these cases. Until then, it's just usually an attack. But what an attack is, when it reaches that level, is decided by the person who can use this device. It would have been nice to add a guarantee in that, too. The provision registered in Ibtv is also related to information security and cyber security, which is Article 146. §2 of the proposal that the National Security Service or the Military Security Office, depending on the civil or military nature of the attack, may order for 90 days plus 90 days the temporary inaccessibleness of data or other information society-related services transmitted via the electronic communications network which pose a threat to the security of the Hungarian cyberspace and on which the event centre may conduct security event management. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I note here that in the defence section, I also missed the consultation, but reading better the proposal, Mr. Secretary of State, which says that it is in violation or endangering defence interests, in which case, for two times 90 days, any data or data providers, i.e. servers, Internet service providers, the whole Telekom, can be turned off. For me, for example, it is unacceptable to me that it is injuring or endangering the defence interests of the country. We live in a country where our fellow Member stands before a criminal court because, as a Member of Parliament, an unpublic defense record was made public by the prosecutor's office, obviously not published by him, but he therefore stands before a criminal court as a Member of Parliament as to which soldier was, or was not, the child of that soldier or that soldier. At a time in which we are constantly threatened as MPs that we do not care, but even if we can, do not dare to publicly say what the actual number of Hungarian defences is, because it violates the defence interest, in which case this term seems to me to be completely shoreless, because once again under this law, if someone violates or threatens defence interests, it is possible to shoot down that service, service provider, server, internet portal twice for 90 days, I think, anything that threatens, say, or because he writes an article about the defence, which I do not like. This text doesn't tell you, Mr. Secretary, I'll say it again. As for the temporary nature, can someone tell me where twice 90 days is temporary? In terms of internet service, do you consider the service to be temporary twice for 90 days on which part of the planet? Two times 90 days, that's six months, and in the meantime, any business will be ruined, that's final. For what purpose and why they want to use this device, we heard about it in there, but let me not say it here in public, I do not agree. I don't think legislation and the application of the law can be used as a club against anyone. If someone attacks our country and it is necessary to temporarily disable that service provider, it is not twice 90 days. It was also said at the meeting that these attacks lasted for minutes, hours, at most for one or two days. Why we have to give a 180-day chance in law, we still don't understand it, and we can't accept it again, because of its time, not because there is such an institution; it is timeless for us. The next issue that we will certainly not agree on is the new legislation on vital systems, in which the proposal 136. § 2 of Lrtv. By supplementing it, it lays down specific provisions, other than those laid down in the Special Law on Defence and the Disaster Protection Act, concerning vital systems, which give the Government virtually unlimited right to intervene. According to the proposal, delegated government liaison professionals will once again appear, which is a very big fashion for the time being, the content of the cooperation obligation of the vital system concerned and the conditions and order for the taking over of its supervision will be established in full by a government decree. So today, Parliament is just saying that in the future, the government can do whatever it wants. It then regulates in a regulation that these companies, which are private companies and public companies, are a vital system, perhaps everyone understands, energy and basic services, once again, have very serious private companies in it, how and how the government will take control of them, it will not be included in the law, but it will do what it wants by decree. We can't agree with him. So we think that this should be limited to some kind of limit. We have heard a cynical response at the conciliation that, well, why we say this now, at least they will be passed by law, and these will mean further limits, because at present, under the authorisation law adopted here in Parliament, the government is doing what it wants to do today. I would only like to quote this here because many of my pro-government fellow Members and members of the government are constantly trying to dull it by saying that the opposition is not telling the truth. But at the seven-party meeting, the Ministry of Interior itself argued that today, in practice, the government is doing what it wants to do in any area, otherwise that's the case, so let's be glad that this is at least the law. Mr State Secretary, we are not happy about this, because otherwise the Covid Act will give this opportunity to the Hungarian government until the government withdraws it, but sooner or later, I think it will just be over, and the adoption of this bill will give the government this unlimited power to take control of the most important companies in every emergency or emergency situation in the coming period. We don't see the point. With regard to public employment, specifically in relation to public employment and national security reliability: Mr Secretary of State, I think, or I don't know, I don't know, I think that the majority of Parliament agrees that it would be good to see in Hungary as well as the nice, orderly porters as from us, let us say, not as far away in Austria. For this, the means of using the state, the government, the Parliament are worth using. What I'm saying is, in addition to your legal problems, I'm about to tell you that this is a completely inappropriate tool. If someone tells me that he's gonna get up to his waist in front of the house of Joseph K., and he doesn't cut it off, so I'm gonna take away the community service and the opportunity to earn income, how he's gonna disappear from the house of Joseph K., because if I punish József K, who, let's say, doesn't pay me a little bit for what I'm saying, but I think so, and I'm gonna take J. K. in public service, and I'm gonna have him cut down the grass in front of his own house, then at least the grass will be cut off. According to this proposal, neither the grass will be cut off nor József K. will be given the opportunity in his life to go from one to the other. We think it's an inappropriate tool, that's our biggest problem. It is not that we do not want the country to move forward in this respect. Legally, the problem is that three years ago, this Constitutional Court threw this proposal out the way it is. I don't know what they trust other than the exchange of members of the Constitutional Court. We'll be very curious that in three years, anything has changed. Finally, with regard to the reliability test, which would extend to other areas: we have said that whoever believes in these reliability tests will certainly like this proposal. From the very first moment, we said that, as long as the reliability investigation, which means that you can provoke police officers and law enforcement officers into corruption, and see how he behaves, as long as this rule, Mr. Secretary of State, does not extend to the ministers, ministers, the prime minister and the environment of his folk orchestra, we think it is completely unjustified to carry out this law enforcement operation. We think we should start where there's real corruption. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] [[20.10]]
u2020-05-05-166	Thank you, Congressman. I, too, welcome once again my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-05-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin with the introductory sentences of the Secretary of State with a clarification. Secretary of State, there hasn't been a seven-party settlement at the Ministry of Home Affairs. It was six-party, tops. I know this because the Democratic Coalition was not present at this meeting. It's a very important thing. You started by saying that you are pro-seven, and the Hungarian Telegram Office will write this down. So please state in your final words that you are six-party, but you may have been even less pro-party. We didn't go to the meeting because we're being rude, but because we've been to this arrangement before, and it doesn't mean anything. He doesn't understand anything! I see, unlike some of my opposition fellow Members, that the same is the case now that they are willing to give in to one or two cases, but they are unwilling to ask the opposition's opinion on this matter before submitting the law on the most important issues. Obviously, they've got two-thirds, they're gonna push everything through the National Assembly. That is why they are very elegantly seducing the opposition, but they are not actually negotiating, I tell you, I have seen this. We believe that this bill consists of 37 laws. The lead speaker at Fidesz was talking about 38 laws, he might already know there's an additional amendment they're planning to file. In any case, we believe that the title of the bill is misleading because it says that it is a bill amending certain laws to strengthen the security of citizens. We think it's a very nasty salad law. There is no such coherence between the changing laws. We do not see a clear concept, a goal to be achieved, along which the proposal itself would be built. There are only a few legislative proposals that are linked to the safety of citizens. Rather, we perceive that the Ministry of the Interior felt that it had been lacking, so it was all wrapped up in this one bill. If I have read it correctly, the justification itself identified about 13 major, different and independent topics as amendments. Each of these would be worth, or at least a significant part, a separate bill, and nothing shows this better than that none of the keynote speakers, including the more clearly informed government representatives who knew the bill much better than we did, were able to comment on all the amendments. I would also like to mention a few, which my fellow Members have already spoken about. The first is the 11th. The so-called reliability test. Perhaps it is not news that, just like before, we do not support this paragraph. We don't support him because we think the same thing as many people in this country. It is clearly not a good tool to combat corruption within the state system, and it is not a good tool, because, by the way, there are people sitting among you who are about to stand before a court shortly on suspicion of corruption. It is not the reliability test that will reduce corruption at state level, but a change in behaviour. It's a condition of change in your behavior. However, there is no mention of this in the bill. Another point that needs to be discussed is the expansion of the tasks of the National Security Service. I very much support the fact that we are dealing with cybersecurity. Perhaps it doesn't surprise Mr. Secretary of State, and I have always whipped the defense wallet to deal with cyber-attacks. Moreover, NATO itself is very strong on this issue. I would consider it important that there is a strong coordination at state level in these matters, where it is clearly protecting critical infrastructure and critical infrastructure as well as citizens. At the same time, I feel that perhaps it comes from the fact that the state apparatus in this area is not usually equipped with knowledge enough to determine very precisely what is, for example, the specific risk, threat, and attack. Secretary of State, there has been a lot of debate between us in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on this issue, but there has not been a debate, but rather a discussion with various Members and NATO representatives about the fact that a world has indeed arrived where the knowledge of individuals who do not speak this language is needed to deal with attacks and risks coming from cyberspace, who are not civil servants and civil servants who do not speak this language, and I might even say that they might fail a national security check. That's a big problem. This will have to be handled by the state apparatus in some way. Perhaps it would be worth talking to, I think, the Ministry of Interior or those members of the Hungarian police who are very different to the younger generation who look at the cyber world and who can help us in these matters. They can tell exactly where critical infrastructure is vulnerable, what it means to attack, what type of attack it is, what type of risk it is. I have to say, they look very different than the Home Office staff, they dress very differently, and they speak very differently. You and I probably don't understand the way they talk to each other, but they are the people who have the knowledge to determine the risk, for example, of critical infrastructure. So it would be my suggestion that, with regard to cyberspace, the legislator's intention is to step out of the ordinary legislative world and talk to these people, because they will be able to determine exactly what the risk is, what the attack means, what the necessary measures are, because the bill itself is rather exaggerated. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The first article on the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre is discussed in Section 24 and is closely linked to this in Article 24. §. Several fellow Members have spoken about this. The birth of TIBEK, I remember, had been prevented for the first time, but then Mr. Minister of Interior proved to be stronger than the Speaker on these matters, and this great monstre company was formed, this great monstre centre, which we did not support at the time. We now believe that the role of the prosecution in this story seems to be strengthened, and we cannot support it in any way. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 states what the National Security Services may do on the basis of an external authorisation, they may secretly learn information processed in an information system, record the findings by technical means, in housing, in other rooms, and the other items and other items they may place and interfere with the information system. Come on, tell me what that means. What does it mean to interfere with the information system? I understand it's an outside license, but what exactly does that mean? Can they put photos in there? Can you put words in there? What does it mean? I think it's very, very important to clarify that. Article 29 I would like to welcome Section 2. They are expanding the range of persons under national security control and the leaders of foreign representations. I assume this came about the pedophile scandal of the former Ambassador Gábor Kaleta in the Kaleta section. We've been pushing for some kind of control before. When there was a committee meeting on this, the authorities said very differently, but I am glad that this paragraph was included in the bill. The next paragraph I would like to discuss is Section 106. §, it is about public employment, which says that a job seeker must be excluded from public employment by decision for a period of three months if his immediate living environment is irregular. [[20.20]] Mr State Secretary, I fully share the position of those who say that in Hungary it would be desirable for all citizens to have adequate housing, the houses, dwellings in which they live, to be peasants, to be fully comfortable. The fact is that this is not the case in Hungary today. That's not the case. I would also be very happy, I agree with you, and with all those who say how good it would be if Hungary were like Austria. I too would be delighted if Hungary were like Austria, because then some paragraphs could not have been included in this bill, but unfortunately it is not like Austria. I share Mr Bellozó's view that this problem will not be solved. So with these quasi-punished means, this thing cannot be solved. While we agree with the goal, I think that there is no one in this Parliament who does not say that everyone should cut the grass, have order and be neat. I would very much like to say that this is true on public land in relation to the slaughter of ragweed, and I would like it to be a neat situation along the railway in relation to picking up garbage, and it could still be classified. That would be all very good. I think it's possible to solve these things by talking, talking, making people do certain things. It certainly won't help their clean yard, proper house, project if these people are excluded from work. Moreover, and that is true, your Constitutional Court stated in its resolution 30/2017 that this is discrimination. The fact that you write it in the law that it is not and that the Constitutional Court is wrong, I understand that, but it will probably go to the Constitutional Court again, and it will be so strange that not quite three years have passed, and the Constitutional Court will change its position. Even if the people of the Constitutional Court have changed. I think in the Fundamental Law, which is granite-solid, but has been modified many times, I don't remember an amendment in which it would have been written that was possible. I would add that the aim is to ensure that Hungary is clean so that Hungary is not wasted so that waste is collected selectively so that people do not throw garbage away in the forest in the protected area, that is very good. For example, I would be delighted if this had been the case before with Lőrinc Mészáros, and it did not pollute the daily lives of those living in the area of the Mátra Power Plant. I think it's very important. This should apply to everyone. I support that. I think you should try to find another way to do this. Article 136 §, which is about the procedures applicable to the special legal order, in essence, as already mentioned here in 86-2020. law enforcement of their government decrees. I can support it, and DK can accept it, because I have previous government experience that in some cases the state must help different companies in order to be normal, smooth work. What I don't understand is why people who basically don't have company management practices need to know special data. 'Cause in spite of what you're saying, the agents of the armed and police forces who have been deployed, who have gone out with the rank of colonel, either to the various energy companies or to the large stores, have never seen a multinational company operate in their lives. So they don't know how to operate it. In fact, they do not interfere with the operation of the company, but that is not their job, Mr Secretary, but their job is to facilitate, for example, the availability of food supplies in Hungary. And if that's what you need state aid for, then as a quasi liaison, these state employees, in this case, police, soldiers, will give you help. But why do you have to learn about bank secrets and business secrets? In order for a truck to come in, you don't need to know how much you make in a company. What we need is for the manager to tell the liaison officer that our truck is at the border, and we can't get in because they've taken measures that won't let them in. You don't have to know business secrets. I think there's too much data to know. Point 146 is replaced by the following: This has already been mentioned in Section 5 of the Act on Information Security, where the temporary inaccessibility can be ordered. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority organises, controls and fines the implementation of this. I would like to say that the National Media and Communications Authority is everything but an independent public body. That's your new little organ, that's a fidesz company. I think they're going to take advantage of this opportunity. Finally, with regard to the assessment of the performance of law enforcement staff, I would like to say, Mr Secretary, that I understand the intention, but this is a rather subjective matter. For these reasons, and for many other reasons, the salad law you have submitted is not eligible. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-05-168	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-05-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At this late hour, I will certainly strive to avoid repetitions, as my fellow Members have assessed this legislation in very detailed detail, paragraph by paragraph. At the same time, I would like to add a few things. I will start by saying that my fellow Members spoke about the consultation in the Ministry of the Interior. This was a five-party meeting, but it wasn't the Ministry of Interior's fault, and I got an invitation, which I thanked, but I had to cancel because of other activities at the last minute. In this regard, I would argue a little with Mrs Vadai, and I would rather agree with Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm that the Ministry of Interior is much more constructive in comparison with the Ministry of Defence. In this situation, we also appreciate the intention that there are such discussions, which are usually meaningful discussions, even though we rarely come to an agreement. I have also been there, and this is certainly a positive point in the balance sheet of Fidesz's ten-year government, that I have had proposals that have been incorporated into legislation and adopted, even before the legislation was submitted. So what I wanted to say was that there's a difference between heaven and earth in the attitude of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. In the Fidesz-government structure, this attitude is certainly one of the good examples. However, since I could not take part in this discussion, I tried to ask my fellow Members, who were there, because not all the information was out. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm also referred to amendments to the legislation on nuclear energy. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, if there is a possibility, not only in the closing words, to respond to this, because I would also like to ask specific questions, and I would like us to be given some clarification in the course of this debate. As I have already said, I would like to avoid repetitions, but at the same time I would like to add a little bit to a specific problem that I will probably generate some debate with, say, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. We can conclude that there is a debate, not on the objectives, but on the ability of this instrument to achieve the objectives. This is a provision relating to public employment, which has already been mentioned several times. To be precise, as my fellow Member has already quoted, it is a question of excluding a job seeker from the possibility of public employment for three months if his living environment is irregular. Mr Harangozó, too, said that there was such an attempt a few years ago, but the Constitutional Court indeed annulled that provision in 2017 and that those provisions expired on 15 November 2017. It is worth a little bit to agree on what was then the grounds of the Constitutional Court. It has been found that the aim is to transfer public workers to the primary labour market. It was already the idea of the legislator, and the legislator also assumed that public employment essentially affected the needy groups, and that they were typically people in financial difficulties, belonging to the most vulnerable sections of society; that the amount that could be earned in public employment status is lower than the minimum wage. At that time, the Constitutional Court's view was that there was no reasonable reason to distinguish job seekers simply because of such special rules on life management. It has been concluded that there is a case of hidden discrimination under the property situation in relation to such a provision and that it cannot in any case be justified to impose this possibility on living conditions which are independent of work. I think we are facing the same situation here. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how they relate to this issue, expecting the Constitutional Court to make a different provision on the same issue. I would like to underline what my fellow Members have already pointed out that we are not arguing here for the purpose. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said that this is certainly to be welcomed. It would be very good to use all means to make the environment more beautiful and indeed to achieve this. [[20.30]] At the same time, this instrument is clearly suitable and I would not like to repeat these arguments made earlier here, but it is clear that, in particular, there are other options in terms of the objective to be achieved that could already be used. In the case of waste accumulation, for example, the Waste Act provides for the possibility to do so, and in the case of accident-dangerous construction works, construction regulations are also an opportunity; in the case of weeds, the original proposal stated that a large part of the area is covered by weeds, there are different laws, that this can be used, and that municipalities have the possibility of dealing with this problem at local level again. Here, we say, a very wide margin for the rules of community co-existence, which is at the disposal of the local authorities, is aimed at this opportunity and is dealing with it. We therefore disagree that it is possible to agree with the aim, but that this type of legislation provides an opportunity and, indeed, does not justify excluding those concerned from public employment in such a situation, let us say. So we certainly consider this to be risky and faulty, not to mention that in the draft legislation there was quite a gown in terms of what is an orderly environment, or what is not an orderly environment, and this is certainly a cause for concern that, precisely because of the gown regulation, subjective judgements may be possible here, and do not occur, but they may be abused, and in this way very many... or people may be put at a disadvantage. We therefore certainly do not see this as a good thing, and I would certainly welcome the fact that the Secretary of State would respond briefly to this before the end, in what way and how they think about constitutional concerns now. Then what I would like to ask you in particular is that, in this case, there are several points in the legislation, this salad law on issues relating to the use of nuclear energy, the safety of nuclear installations, including not only the safety of nuclear power plants, but also the issue of nuclear waste storage or their maintenance, and, in this case, investment in the capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I would like to ask you about this, too, we have tried to interpret these provisions, what exactly is the reason for these provisions, and how, by translating this into a bit of a kitchen language, it is necessary to interpret them, and why, in particular, these amendments concerning nuclear energy, nuclear energy and the storage of radioactive waste are necessary. We know that this is a very, very hot issue, and that the placement of high-activity nuclear waste, spent fuel and such high-activity waste has not been resolved anywhere in the world, and that there is still such a temporary reservoir in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and that there are several storage facilities and final storage facilities for small and medium-activity nuclear waste in the country. In Bátaapáti there is already such a deep-geological repository, where small and medium-activity waste is placed, research has been conducted in Boda for a very long time on the treatment of high-activity waste, and here and there are indications that this issue is dealt with in various legislation, here and here reference is also made to the national programme for the management of spent fuel and high-activity waste. I would like to ask you more specifically that we can continue this debate, let us say, here. Overall, however, I can say that I have actually referred to a few things, but we consider the amendments, a significant part of the amendments in the proposal to be justified and eligible. We have drawn attention here to some of the problems in which we disagree, but overall, I can say that a large part of the proposal is, however, eligible, but it is absolutely necessary to see what is the intention to amend, for example, nuclear energy, what is behind it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-170	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada.
u2020-05-05-171	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Kereszt, that the standard in consultation with the opposition is not the defence portfolio. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So that's zero. Everyone's better than that. Not only does the defence wallet not agree, but Mr Harangozó, Vice-President Andrea Varga-Damm and I have repeatedly turned to the wallet in writing in order to learn information about defence procurements, and we have never received such information. You were here when we were arguing about defense matters in the previous bill, you could see the attitude. I think that the example in this regard is rather the agricultural portfolio, with which a meaningful dialogue can indeed be conducted, and indeed changes can be made. At the same time, we accept it, because we acknowledge that there is no other option, that there is a government intention and will, which is either way or without us, because that is what we have heard you carry your will through Parliament, that is what is happening now. If this had not been the case, but had the opposition representatives been heard, there would not have been TIBEK in this salad law, there would not have been a reliability investigation, and there would have been an amendment to the national security law, which has always been done on the basis of a joint agreement, it would not have happened in the last three years or in the last ten years I do not know how many times without consulting the opposition. So I understand good intentions, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Lóránt Keresz, Head of the Group, for two minutes.
u2020-05-05-173	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to react very briefly. Indeed, it is not the defence wallet on the table, and I did not want to defend the Ministry of Interior, but I also referred to this in terms of the style and attitude of the last ten-year-old Fidesz government, and I think it is important to raise it if there are at least any negotiations that the Minister participates in. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] and participates in the minister by preparing for content. And, yes, a significant part of these negotiations end with no agreement, but at least there is a possibility, and there has already been an example that they have adopted proposals. And yes, indeed, the agricultural portfolio is a refreshing example, and I would also like to ask the Minister of Interior or, in the case of Szilárd Németh State Secretary, I have no illusions to try to take an example of the fact that opposition representatives or opposition representatives' proposals are considered to be well-intentioned and we are also in the interests of the nation, and I hope that then there will be as many votes as possible in which we can vote and we can participate together, and we may even accept proposals together. In this regard, I think it should also be stressed that the Ministry of Interior is not the bad, the worst example of the current governance structure. Thank you.
u2020-05-05-174	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-175	Thank you very much. I would like to say very briefly one thing that we did not understand, Madam Vice-President, Agnes Vadai. A hundred thousand times you said at the Defence Committee meeting that you would like to see the new instruments of the defence, the aircraft, the helicopters, and when it was possible, Madam Vice-President, in Kecskemét, you did not want to come. So I think you're a hypocrite for what you said about the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
u2020-05-05-176	Thank you. Now, Agnes Vadai, I suppose you'll explain why you weren't at the scene. [[Defiance.]] You have the floor, dear Congresswoman.
u2020-05-05-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, No, Congressman Simon Miklós doesn't understand. I don't care about these airplanes, I've seen them before, I'm interested in contracts and how much they cost, Congressman, and that's a big difference. I understand that you enjoy seeing airplanes, that you have such viewing colleagues in the Fidesz fraction, that I have seen such machines, that it is more important to see the parameters on which the contract was concluded. I am not obliged to report, but let me inform you that on the day you were in Kecskemét, I was sitting on the NATO scientific and technological committee in Sweden, where I was also interested in your purchase of Gripen, because it turned out that it wasn't the perfect one at the time, I don't think that the purchase of business jets and aircraft you probably saw was perfect, either. Do you know what you can do to help me? If you could just tell me how much these things cost. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-178	Thank you, so the dates have been set. Now Congressman Tamás Bellozó gets the floor for two minutes.
u2020-05-05-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was also inspired by Vice-President Miklós Simon's comment to clarify a few things, even if not so much in connection with this bill, but here my fellow Member has asked for some things concerning the operation of the defence committee and the operation of the government and its transparency. First of all, Mr Vice-President, if a Member of Parliament wishes to look at defence instruments purchased from public funds, it is not fair that he is not allowed to do so for a year, and it is not an answer that after a year or a year and a half he is able to go there in the morning, and if he is on an official mission abroad, he cannot see it. [[20.40]] I would like to say to my fellow Member in Vada that he must have seen many kinds of airplanes, but believe me, the viewing of these business jets would have made all Hungarian tax-paying citizens excited. I am sure that the back half of the members of the government and the members of their delegations will not be broken by the butter-colored leather seat and the mahogany loading in the bar that you have seen on these military aircraft. Finally, I would like to say, Mr Vice-President, that if you are a little concerned about the authority of our committee, you should be kind enough to tell us when contracts can be viewed. I would also like it if, once in a lifetime, a Fidesz or KDNP representative could ask you, too, that when it comes to defence procurement over the next five years, I don't know how many thousand billion forints, then at least once on one A4 paper someone will write in advance what the government is planning to buy for thousands of billion forints; in advance, to see that this is a real government plan, not a buy-in on the basis of sloppy and not a momentary interest. There's still something missing in this. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-180	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Vadai again in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So that Secretary of State Kontra does not feel so alone and lost in this defence debate, allow me to recommend to you, in the context of a reliability investigation, a person who could even be subject to national security control. His name is Gáspár Maróth, and he is the arms nepper of the Hungarian government. I think that he is responsible for the things that Congressman Miklós Simon has now tried to read on my head. I don't know what you bought from Turkey. We know you've been shopping for medical supplies before. I would suggest, for example, that checks be carried out on Maróth Gáspár in terms of reliability checks or national security checks. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman Tamás Bellozó asked to speak in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In my previous speech, I did not have time to comment on the other point of debate. I would also say to Mr Secretary of State, but mostly to everyone else: if all ministries were to agree only as much as the Ministry of the Interior, I think we would live in a more normal and happy country. There is a qualitative difference between the fact that such a law is passed to Members prior to their submission, and at least one round of meetings is held in person, even if its real conception was not a lot in our eyes, so we cannot support this law, and this is where legislative proposals, resolution proposals and political statements fly in on Monday morning at 9 a.m., which the Parliament will discuss that day and adopt the next day. The shame of this country, the procedure itself, is a disgrace to this institution, which is called the Hungarian Parliament. Compared to that, I'll say it again, for the last ten years, the Ministry of the Interior has at least had this gesture. I think that should be recognised and recognised as a normal congressman. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-184	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-05-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the Members who have spoken in this debate for giving their opinion. I would like to say to our fellow Member in Vada that we planned that meeting on 23 April for seven parties, but it did not, because you were not there either. We regret this, and we have given you the opportunity, by the way, and we trust that you will take part in these discussions the next time. We mean it, I can safely say to Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior, and to all the leaders of the Ministry of Interior, that our goal with these negotiations is that the legislative proposals we are about to submit contain the best possible regulation. We have accepted part of Andrea Varga-Damm's proposals, and Mr Bellozó's proposal on motor vehicle instructors has been forwarded to the ITM in support. But I would also like to mention, and I would like to start by saying that it is possible to submit proposals for amendments and I can promise that we will examine all amendments in substance. That is what I would like to say in front of this House. As regards the proposals made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, as regards the reliability checks, I would like to say that your proposal is included in the amendment by Mr Lajos Kósa, which is why those requirements are set out here. We accepted that. As regards your proposal on Paks, I would like to say: the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Bill amending Act Nos 100-105. §2 of the Act deals with this amendment, the regulation on site safety certificates will be simplified by terminating the issue of a special site safety certificate for enterprises linked to the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The National Safety Authority shall issue a site safety certificate or a simplified site safety certificate in accordance with their general rules. That is what I wanted to say to the Congresswoman. By the way, thank you for your contribution on agreeing with the objectives of the bill, and also for your opinion on improving safety. Thank you for the contributions of my fellow Members, including Mr Simon Miklós, Fidesz and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, who gave their clear support to the proposal. Thank you very much. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote as well. I would like to thank Mr Bellman for his contribution. At the Ministry of the Interior, we have always sought to ensure that our proposals for security are supported as widely as possible and that we can channel as many opinions into this as possible in order to adopt the best regulation. We're serious. As regards the situation with regard to TIBEK and the relationship between TIBEK and the prosecutor's office, I clearly mentioned this in my expo, at least I hoped that this wording would be clear. I would also like to confirm here that, with regard to the prosecution, the competence of TIBEK exclusively covers the identification of parallel investigations, preparatory procedures, secret information collections and covert tool applications and by providing clarification information to increase the effectiveness of prosecution procedures. It is an important guarantee that TIBEK may not use the information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office for other purposes. So I think, Mr Congressman, and I ask you to consider your position on this, that this is a clear guarantee, as the Minister has said, and I also confirm it in Parliament. The National Security Service considers the use of assets to be excessive, which is what part of its comment was about. We believe that this option, which we are opening in this bill, is not exaggerating overall, and we believe that this will increase security by making these instruments available to the NSA. The poetic question of how the weeds disappeared from the house of József K., so he said, I am sorry that I quoted them literally and that many of our fellow Members spoke and criticized this possibility. [[20.50]] I would like to say that the aim is not to exclude anyone from public employment for three months or even for one day. The aim is for public employment to fulfil its role, and for the public worker to do everything possible to ensure that the port is in order. I am responding to Mr Kereszt's comment in this regard that this proposal does not contain the same rules that the Constitutional Court has previously expressed and has taken a decision on this; it contains other rules. And I also said that it also contains guarantee elements in this regard, and I would immediately quote what was said in my exposé that this could be done in the event of a finally established infringement; that is to say, final. It was also mentioned at the meeting on 23 April; perhaps it was Mr Harangozó who said what this concept now means, which is used in the bill by the author. I would like to say this, and here again I would like to refer to what my fellow Member of the Cross has said, or to answer his question, that, contrary to previous regulations, it is a procedural guarantee that only and only in the final official decision can the chief official, i.e. the government office, or the notary, issue it in the event of an established infringement and in the event of an actual emergency caused by the irregular environment. So in the event of several conditions being met together, but that is not the aim, I would like to say. The aim is to make Hungary more orderly, and to this end, the public workers should also do what is expected of them according to the bill. The aim is therefore not to impose sanctions, but to make it more orderly in this regard as a port of those who carry out public employment or are in a public employment relationship. I would also like to thank Mrs Ágnes Vadai for her contribution, which was not without criticism, by the way. I would like to remind you and recall that I was an opposition representative between 2002 and 2010 and tabled quite a number of amendments first between 2002 and 2006 as a member of the Police Commission and between 2006 and 2010 as a member of the Defence and Police Committee, and I certainly have to force my memory to say what my proposal was adopted by the then majority of governments. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Mr. Simicsko has been accepted!]] I'm just talking about myself, but I'm gonna think about it for the record. It has been said that the standard, the Agricultural Ministry, the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Interior are the standards, or we are comparing our attitude to what we are in this debate. I would like to say that we have always sought, on the one hand, to have the relationship, the normal relationship between the Ministry and the parliamentary committees working with the Ministry or monitoring the ministry's activities, because I consider this very important, which will help us to function effectively. So we wanted to maintain this nexus so far, and that is what we are going to do in the future, and I would like to confirm it here in front of this House, and we consider this very important. Back to my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, with the Ibtv., the Information Security Act, in relation to 90 days, he also said this at the seven-party meeting: Ibtv fully defines it. concepts relevant to information security should therefore be considered to govern and apply the concept of the Information Security Act in all public information security functions. The maximum of 90 days is not final, which was also discussed in the seven-party. Gambling has 365 days, which is also not permanent. As regards this, Mr Bellozó, concerning the special legal order: I have already mentioned this in the expozee, and I would also like to point out that there is a general obligation to review after the special legal order has ceased. I think this is a guarantee element that cannot be disputed in this respect either. I confirm here, too, that the proposal has been clarified since the Constitutional Court's decision, so we have formulated it in accordance with the decision that this sanction can only be imposed by a final decision, and I would like to emphasise it here as well. You mentioned a former diplomat because of the fact that part of the bill was amended. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No?]] We have clarified this in order to ensure coherence with the Foreign Service Act, that is what I would like to say. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's okay, just pedophiles... Cyber business?]] Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for their comments. I took the view from what was said that we had the intention to improve security. He also mentioned from several speakers, Ágnes Vadai, Tamás Harangozó, that 30-some laws had been amended. We have undertaken to amend these laws in order to contribute to the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws for harmonisation in the context of the amendment of EU legislation on control of the acquisition and possession of arms until closure. Government referral T/10310. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2020-05-05-187	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill to be negotiated is to bring about harmonisation of EU law. It is necessary to transpose the amendment of the EU directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons into domestic law in order to ensure that failure to do so will result in a favourable outcome of the infringement proceedings against Hungary. The existing arms legislation will be strengthened only in line with EU standards, taking into account the fact that it does not impose any additional burden on those concerned. The proposal recognises, in principle, the duration of the amendments for the future, in most cases without prejudice to the previous legal status of retail assets. In addition, the motion provides a sufficient period of grace to prepare for changing circumstances, so as not to result in unfair tightening of the assets, activities or arms groups concerned. The main amendments are as follows. It is proposed that the legal classification of deactivated firearms, which separates them from the truly functional means, will be abolished. This amendment shall be without prejudice to specimens of weapons which have been deactivated before 8 April 2016. It will be sufficient for holders of firearms subsequently deactivated to notify the authority by 31 December 2022 instead of obtaining a permit to hold a firearm. The Directive requires that certain types of weapons which do not comply with certain technical parameters be declared to be firearms. This amendment concerns so-called theatrical weapons and certain types of gas and alarm weapons. Authorisations to hold theatrical weapons shall be exchanged for firearms by 1 January 2023 at the latest and, in the case of the gas and alarm weapons concerned, provision shall be made for conversion in accordance with the new technical requirements. [[21.00]] In the absence of this, these devices will only be placed on the market as genuine firearms after 31 December 2022. However, until 31 December 2022, pieces placed on the market for gas and alarm weapons will not be subject to the requirement to be classified as firearms, and their holders will not be able to do so after the end of the grace period, either. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill will carry out a review of the classification of firearms. These amendments are without prejudice to the classification of assets already held by rightholders and thus do not constitute a substantial tightening of the existing rules. The requirements for the construction and operation of the central register of firearms should also be enforced in domestic legislation, therefore the data content of the official register will be added and the mandatory retention period for firearms and their main components will be increased from 20 to 30 years. Dear Parliament, The proposal also ensures that traders can, by unilaterally refusing to conclude contracts, refuse to carry out certain transactions concerning the acquisition of ammunition or ammunition parts which are uncertain due to their nature or scale. It shall also provide them with information to the Authority. At the same time, as a guarantee element protecting the interests of arms holders who exercise enforcement, the law would state that unilateral refusal of a contract cannot be based on facts, events, acts or circumstances covered by the authority's authorisation. The motion also proposes a simultaneous clarification of the Criminal Code and the Violation Act, with a view to ensuring consistency between sanctioning standards and administrative requirements. Dear Parliament, I trust that the bill will help to combat terrorism, to ensure the effectiveness of public action against possible abuses that pose a threat to public security. It achieves this by maintaining, under the necessary guarantees, the desired balance between the restriction of the possession of civil arms for security purposes and the interests of recognising the validity of this activity. Dear Parliament, I ask you to support this proposal, discuss it, and accept it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Miklós, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-05-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In my opinion, we have come to the discussion of a slightly controversial proposal at social level, and the tightening up planned by the bill will certainly have a sensitive impact on a certain layer of Hungarian society. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Who?]] It would be difficult to define this group more precisely, but I could say that the current rules on the purchase of arms and the holding of weapons will certainly not be satisfied with the amendment of the proposal we are discussing. At the same time, we must see that there is currently a infringement procedure against Hungary, as we have not yet complied with the obligations of harmonisation laid down by Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. Studying the proposal, it can be seen that the author only transposes into the domestic legal order the details of the EU directives that are strictly required by the legislation of the Member States. You can see the effort to comply with the obligations in a moderate and as far as possible, as little as possible, with the current rules. The current regulatory framework is good [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] It is particularly good for the safety of citizens, since it has been well established and strikes the right balance in the relationship between the various demands for the maintenance of arms and the restrictions required by public security. The effort to make this system less affected by the proposed amendment should therefore be appreciated. The amendments will certainly strengthen our defence against the weapons that have been used to launch illegal modifications, while reducing the range of self-defense weapons that will be available to citizens in the future. However, this narrowing may not be called drastic, but there will be plenty of opportunities, and security will increase as we hope. The amendment of the data management rules and the rules on traders to be introduced in connection with suspicious transactions will also increase the security of the public. On the whole, therefore, the Fidesz faction supports the adoption of the proposal, and I ask my fellow opposition Members with respect to this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-190	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Stummer, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-05-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, We see and understand that the bill before us is for EU harmonisation purposes. It is also clear to us that the proposal always makes as many changes to the current legislation as are absolutely necessary, and it is clear to us that this particular EU membership entails certain obligations that need to be met. At the same time, however, it is the right and responsible behaviour to criticise this proposal in the necessary places. The world around us is not moving in the direction in which we can see this amendment as timely and correct. I do not think that this should be carefully dissected, nor is it the subject of this speech, but in recent weeks, in a few weeks, much has changed around us, and we have had to reevaluate our views on security, national security and the security of individual citizens. Since the beginning of the 2000s, international terrorism has been changing our concepts of security at international, national and individual levels since the mid-2010s, the global health emergency, and the challenges arising from these effects, as well as in recent years. In this current situation, this legislation, which has so far primarily affected unlicensed weapons, has aimed at achieving unknown and incomprehensible social interests. At a time when the world is becoming an increasingly dangerous place, I am thinking of the security challenges posed by international terrorism through the health emergency caused by the coronal virus, when a wide range of society across Europe wants to be more secure in order to protect their individual and property, then introducing such restrictions in terms of the sustainability of devices that are not suitable for life, this goes against legitimate and broad social needs. It is not a question of curbing unwarranted needs of the public, but of making EU over-regulation completely defenceless and vulnerable to its own citizens. It does this by failing for decades, not least, to operate effectively a law enforcement body capable of protecting the citizens of the European Union and not being able to create an army of the European Union that would also serve that purpose. [[21.10]] As has already been said in the previous reports, the loopholes used by the attackers of Bataclan in Paris are closed between the different rules in the Member States with this amendment. Here, however, I would like to draw your attention to two aspects. On the one hand, the requirements for national disabling are strict and effective worldwide, perhaps they should have been tightened up in the Member State where this is mild. On the other hand, if, in fact, the European Union wishes to eliminate the means of committing acts of violence, it would be possible to ban the kitchen knife, as it is the knife attacks that have recently become a typical form of international terrorism. According to the draft, there will be no change with regard to gas and alarm weapons already out there. Although, according to the new directive and the new Hungarian regulations, from 1 January 2023 only gas and alarm weapons complying with stricter technical criteria will be allowed to be released for free circulation, this provision therefore affects manufacturers and traders extremely seriously, because it reclassifies the rubber-bearing gas alarms into category C, thus eliminating their market. This can be particularly painful for the production of rubber projectiles known and recognised throughout Europe, as they may disappear as highly popular, non-viable home protection devices. Overall, it is clear why we need this law, but in our view it is against the legitimate need of society to decide freely whether or not to keep the means of taking life in order to protect its home, but also to prevent a possible attack. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-05-192	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-05-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As Minister of State has said, the present bill imposes a legal harmonisation obligation on Hungary, as does EU legislation for harmonisation purposes, but this bill is not intended to fully redefine the law on arms in Hungary. In Hungary, strict regulation protecting citizens is characteristic, Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, fortunately we do not have a high number of armed robberies and murders. Every year in Hungary, the number of crimes committed in one year is decreasing. All registered crimes committed in Hungary over a year have been reduced by more than half compared to the Gyurcsány government's time [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] In 2018, the number of registered crimes was below 200,000, 199 830, compared to the years of the Gyurcsány governments, when this figure was stable over 400,000. (Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts.) In particular, the number of homicides in Hungary has decreased positively in recent years. The number of intentional manslaughters registered in the police procedure was 90 in 2017 in the country, 78 in 2018 and 58 in 2019. By comparison, in 2006 there were 174 completed manslaughter. Therefore, Hungarian public security has improved significantly, crime has been greatly reduced, the police are doing their job effectively, and we thank you for that. For the Hungarian government, the security of the Hungarian people is the first, which is why we say no to uncontrolled illegal immigration, which has increased the number of terrorist attacks in Western Europe in recent years. Since the terrorist attack in Brussels in March 2016, 37 terrorist attacks have been carried out by immigrants or migrants in Europe. In the 37 terrorist attacks, 231 people were killed and 1828 were injured. This bill for harmonisation amends the legal classification of disarmed firearms, thereby eliminating the classification of deactivated firearms separately from firearms. Thus, disarmed firearms will also be subject to the same strict rules as genuine functioning firearms. The bill also amends the categorical classification of weapons, amends and lays down uniform European regulations on the holding and possession of firearms. This bill amends the rules on the registration of weapons, where it will require more detailed data and information to be recorded. The bill also requires intermediaries to report to the authorities suspicious cases arising from the transaction. The amending detailed rules are for European harmonisation purposes, strengthen and complement the current strict Hungarian regulations, thus increasing and contributing to the security of the Hungarian people, and the KDNP faction therefore supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-194	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dezső the Believer, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-05-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. In my experience, the various countries and states register weapons-related legislation and different legal relationships as important legislation. If not on this continent, but we can also see an example of this, such as on the American continent, that it can even decide elections by which aspirin is related to gun control. We are dealing with such a subject now, although the situation is quite different. In view of the fact that the real substantive debate on this issue has not taken place here, is not going to take place or is going to take place here, but has already taken place in the EU, various decisions have been taken at the various legislative forums of the Union, and this legislation is therefore called "harmonisation." By reading the legislation, it has become clear to me that there are issues that can be regulated at EU level, and there are issues in which the various Member States simply could not agree at EU level, and therefore all other issues have been left to Member States. These are the two main areas that we can read about in this law and in which, to say the least common multiples have been formulated which could be created at EU level. These two areas concern the conditions under which weapons are acquired and held. I think that the ambition on the part of the Union to try to standardise these laws in some way is a correct effort. I would even encourage more of these areas of arms legislation, which are not regulated by Member States, but at EU level. It has also become clear that the elements of legislation that we can read in this law serve to make the different legal relationships that this legislation is trying to formulate more understandable and manage. This points in the same direction as our ideas, and we are therefore expected to support the creation and vote in favour of this legislation. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-196	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-05-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to begin by saying to Congressman Simon that I was wrong about the previous bill, and I apologise to the House for that. Because when the Defence Commission met in Kecskemét, I wasn't in Sweden. I was in Asia, in Burma, as President of the Committee on Humanitarian Rights of the Interparlamental Union, in a country that I managed to get into after a year. By the way, I was able to get in sooner than in the DOD's room where the contracts for the purchased assets are. I want to apologize for my mistake. In any case, with regard to the bill, which lies before us and, as has been said, this is an amendment for harmonisation, I would like to say the following. When I arrived in the courtroom and listened to Mr. Secretary's exposé, I was of the opinion that this was a Eligible bill. At first, Congressman Miklós Simon stood up, but the real dagger was given by the lead speaker of the KDNP, who just didn't mention Soros, there was everything else. I think that the hour may be late, many of us have been here since morning, I think that if there is such an amendment for harmonisation, which may be detrimental to interests, but at the same time to my personal position, it is very much in line; and I am happy to agree, of course, that the House must be protected, but this must be done by other means; and I believe in the state's organisation of violence and the monopoly of state violence in principle, I believe in that, I am always happy when a situation becomes much more regulated. [[21.20]] In this case, too, I understand and know that Hungarian laws are well regulated, but I am always glad that we try to establish some common rules in this regard in the European Union. But to do so, Congressman Nacsa, I would like to say that there is no need for a candlestick, really, there is no. Now, let's start by listing what's worse and what's faked statistics? Once again, we will begin a completely unnecessary debate, while basically the intention of the opposition parties is to support this bill. Tell me why you're trying to talk us out of this with your keynote speech. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Instead of starting with yes, it is indeed a proposal for harmonisation for EU purposes, which clearly contains different regulations, which clearly tries to bring consistency and unity to the EU demand, together with the amendment of the Violation Act and the Criminal Code. I think that when Members in the European Union, for example in the European Parliament, argued about this, believe me, I did not read the minutes at the time, but I am almost certain that no one was serial, curly orbed, but rather talked about what tools Europe should find together in order to keep track of these instruments. In my opinion, the important thing about dialogue is that not immediately, they assume that we are not in favour of something, and they are not projecting their existing frustrations on us, but they are asking us what we think about it. What I can tell you is that if this bill stays in its form and does not smuggle in some amendment, because they do such things, they may not figure out that they are modifying something else, we can support this proposal, and I think that we could almost write down a nice sheet, but unfortunately, there will still be a bill, where I think there will certainly be even more debate and there will be no such consensus, but today, I would like to say, this is the second bill where there is a chance for opposition and government to vote together, and I think this is an important thing. You always want us to work together. Now's your chance. I would like to ask you one thing: do not talk us out of this cooperation with your keynote speeches. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-198	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, in a normal time frame.
u2020-05-05-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At such a late hour, I would like to refrain from such party political contributions, although it is very interesting that it is almost 9:30, and we are hearing thoughts from Ágnes Vadai about cooperation and national cooperation, I think it is shocking in the Parliament. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why?]] but it is definitely positive, and I am glad that this is also an example of the many, many knife points debate. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I know, I know you'll respond to this, Congresswoman. But now let us take this legislation seriously. My fellow Members have clearly said the EU's harmonisation, and it is also clear that they have tried to use the mildest interventions in this area. I wanted to ask you what Congressman Stummer said. In particular, I would like to ask you one more question that we may be able to answer. Indeed, manufacturers are losing the market here, so specifically these tightening ups, these reclassifications here will probably stop production in the case of non-viable gas-removal weapons. What type of consultation or communication was conducted with the stakeholders? What was his experience? I would also like to ask you a question about the fact that a lot of detailed rules will have to be drawn up in government powers. In this regard, although we have already praised the Ministry of the Interior today, in this regard, that it is also very important to have a concrete consultation with stakeholders, so that these detailed arrangements will not cause more serious damage and problems for those affected. We will also support this proposal ourselves, so the LMP fraction will vote in favour of this proposal. I took this request, although we do not support it, but because we agree with it. However, although I do not wish to go into the details right now, I agree with the concerns that Mr Stummer has expressed, which is obviously something that needs to be thought about, but I think that in this case, since it is an obligation to harmonise legislation, we can do nothing but support this proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-05-05-200	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said.
u2020-05-05-201	Thank you for the floor, thank you for your support, statements of support and words on behalf of the factions. I believe that this is a bill which means fulfilling the EU's obligation to harmonise legislation, and let me answer the question of our fellow Member Stummer: there are two infringement proceedings in progress against Hungary, the deadline has expired, and the adoption of this legislation cannot be postponed any longer. The first deadline, transposition date was 14 September 2018 and the second was 14 December 2019, so it is timely to discuss and adopt this bill. As for the question of our fellow Christian Member, I cannot answer that right now, but as soon as I can give him the answer, I will tell him that in person. Among other things, I call on this House to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/10316. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, the Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-05-05-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I wanted to save myself, I'd hide that this is a sign of absolute respect for the House, but that's the way it is. I'm glad to be here, and I welcome you all with a lot of love. Under the Fundamental Law of Hungary, everyone has a constitutional right to set up organisations and join organisations. The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. The preamble to the Act says that the voluntary collaboration of people is essential for the development of Hungary, civil society organisations are the fundamental elements of society, which constantly contribute to the day-to-day achievement of our common values. The bill before us proposes to amend this civil law. We believe that support for civil society organisations should encourage the activities of these organisations and the achievement of the objectives set out in the preamble. Creating a support environment that takes into account the needs of organisations is essential for the ongoing review of the rules on the support of civil society organisations, including practical experience, and the establishment of candidate-friendly procedural rules. If we look at the domestic changes in the support environment of civil society organisations in recent years, we can see that the amount of state aid to civil society and non-profit organisations has increased by more than 2.5 times compared to HUF 144 billion in 2010 to HUF 370 billion. The National Cooperation Fund is a special funding fund specifically supporting the operation and professional activities of civil society organisations, with a budget of HUF 3.4 billion between 2012 and 2020 and an increase of HUF 7.7 billion by 2021 to nearly HUF 9.3 billion. This framework depends on the offer of 1 per cent of personal income tax, as part of it reaches the organisations directly according to the taxpayers' provision, and the rest through the support of the NEA. The new sub-programme of the 2020 Hungarian village programme, the Village Civil Fund, aims to support the activities and operating conditions of local, small-scale communities, i.e. established there, in the amount of HUF 5 billion. [[21.30]] In addition to the creation of the framework, we also consider it necessary to develop appropriate forms of tender, in order to enable organisations of diverse civil society to find the form of tender with different scopes of activity, with different revenues, within which they can receive the most effective support. These proposals should, in our view, achieve a double objective, both to help implement professional programmes and to ensure conditions of operation, while encouraging organisations to seize all opportunities to increase their own revenues. Such an option is to promote the social responsibility of civil society organisations, and to encourage donation activities, the so-called additional grant for donations, the total amount of which would increase from HUF 500 thousand in 2020 to HUF 750 thousand. The simplified support, which provides support for the basic target activities of organisations based on eligibility, which are typically small-scale NGOs, would increase from HUF 200,000 in 2020 to HUF 300 thousand. Every year, normative support provides additional support to approximately 700 NGOs for HUF 150-200 million and simplified support to some 3000-4000 organisations for HUF 500-600 million. In addition to the appropriate number of opportunities selected by civil society organisations, there is a continuous role to be played in the review of the terms and conditions of the tender and in the promotion of different candidate-friendly solutions. The time to achieve the professional goals may be significantly reduced if these organisations have to fulfil serious tendering administration and bureaucracy. The amendment under the terms of the tender will provide support for civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5000 inhabitants and less than the number of inhabitants if the organisation's senior official is also the mayor. Based on registration data, there are 15,000 organisations registered in settlements with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, and there are about 2,500 settlements with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Practical experience shows that in civil society organisations with local scope, typically for the future of settlements, for the preservation of their traditions, for helping local families, for the useful use of leisure time, mayors with most information on local peculiarities take a leading role in many cases. On this basis, it is a life-like solution that the civil organisation structure created because of local characteristics does not have a disadvantage in these settlements. I would like to inform you that the number of organisations participating in the proposals, which have been set up under the National Cooperation Fund, taking into account the scope, activities, revenues and fundraising activities, is also increasing year by year, and 10 384 applications were submitted in 2020. The decision-making bodies pay particular attention to supporting the functioning and professional activities of value-creating associations, foundations with real social embeddedness. The members of the college carry out the criticism without the involvement of external experts in critical couples, according to the amendment, for their work they will receive a so-called reimbursement fee, which will increase to two thirds of the monthly minimum wage at any time, with the President of the five colleges and the President of the NEA Council entitled to one hundred percent of the amount. In our view, the increase is justified by the annual increase in the number of applications, and the operator's fee is used to cover the workload resulting from the increase in the NEA framework, so it does not require any additional budgetary resources. The amendment of the name of the civil information centres to civil community service centres underlines the desire that these centres will help other organisations that come to them free of charge as part of a national civil organisation network, as is the case in practice. After all, I think that this amendment also confirms and shows our commitment to the civil sector, since the civil society law came into force, there have been positive changes in the support environment of civil society organisations, which can be expressed not only by increasing or increasing the funding framework by billions of forints, but also by creating a system of institutions that is a candidate-friendly bureaucracy reduction taking into account civil society organisations. The bill intends to proceed along this line, which is why I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Csaba Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-05-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10316. CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. With regard to the law, I would like to say to you that, in relation to the mayor's conflict of interest, the Hungarian village programme is a package of measures defining social policy, national policy, development policy and demographic objectives, which in all its basic programmes fully expresses the government's commitment to the development of Hungarian settlements, especially in this case the development of small settlements. In several ways, the Hungarian village is on a new footing. The Hungarian village program is unprecedented, because since the change of regime, the first important programme launched to raise rural Hungary and small settlements has been implemented entirely from Hungarian sources. It is also unprecedented because, in addition to real and regular consultation, it seeks to solve the problems of small settlements in Hungary. The program, thanks to its being in good hands, gives, to say, immediate answers to questions that come directly from small settlements. Based on the experience gained so far, it can be said that the challenges raised by small settlements are constantly being responded to, and the government is also trying to harmonise the legal environment in such a way that the Hungarian village programme allows small settlements to develop even more rapidly, so that rural life is not between quality of life but between lifestyles. In 2020, the Hungarian village programme is expected to be expanded with a new basic programme. Civil society organisations operating in settlements of less than 5000 inhabitants, established there, will be able to apply for events, programs, real estate purchase, real estate development, motorized vehicles, and other equipment purchases. The National Cooperation Fund, which is the funding fund established by the Civil Law to support the functioning and professional activities of civil society organisations, has been heard from the State Secretary here, and managed from HUF 3.4 billion in 2012-20. This will increase to nearly HUF 10 billion by 2021, HUF 9.3 billion for the next budget year. The number of applications issued under the National Cooperation Fund, taking into account the scope, activity, revenue and fundraising activities of civil society organisations, is increasing year by year. This year, 10 384 applications were submitted by civil society organisations. The proposals issued by the colleges pay particular attention to supporting the functioning and professional activities of value-creating organisations and foundations with real social embeddedness. In 2019, a single tender procedure was established that was open to applicants, with a significant reduction in the time the organisations had to devote to the tendering administration. The current amendment provides for the possibility of providing support for civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5000 inhabitants and below, if the organisation's senior officer is also mayor. Based on the registration data, there are 15 thousand organisations with headquarters in settlements with fewer than 5000 inhabitants. Civil society organisations with local scope, typically for the future of settlements, for the preservation of their traditions, for helping local families, for the useful use of leisure time, for example, for the registration of organisations, for the fulfilment of their obligations, in many cases, the submission of accounting reports has asked local authorities for help, and mayors with the most extensive information about local characteristics have taken a leading role in these organisations. [[21.40]] If I may, I would like to say this, as I am a representative of a district here in Parliament, in the 4th constituency of Baranya County, which has a special settlement structure, the largest constituency in the country. In terms of the number of settlements, more than half of Baranya County consists of 174 municipalities. Of these 174 municipalities, 171 correspond to most of the announcements of the Hungarian village, i.e. 98 percent of the settlements. The rural, small-town life is completely different from that of a metropolitan. Everyone knows everyone, and because there are fewer people living in settlements, they are much closer, they are more humane, so to speak, perhaps the community is stronger. In these settlements, mayors in most cases perform their duties as city leaders independently of parties and not in full-time jobs. This may also be the reason why civil society organisations have a more direct contact with the mayors, and even the mayors are the civil society organisation leaders themselves, so they are also actively involved in civil society. On this basis, we consider it justified that the civil organisation structure created by local specificities should not be a disadvantage for civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5 000 people and less than the number of inhabitants in the case of support from the National Cooperation Fund. The aim of the support of the Hungarian village is to alleviate the disadvantages of settlements below 5 000 inhabitants, including the provision of contributions to services, public services to meet basic needs, and the development of improvements that make these settlements attractive to the people living there and those who want to settle down. In the case of subsidies for civil society organisations, which reduce disadvantages, it is also not realistic that organisations whose senior officials are also mayors are not eligible for funding. Dear House, In addition to the above, the bill also removes an unnecessary administrative obligation on associations and foundations. The proposed amendment of the law before us is supported by the Fidesz faction, because it greatly helps to strengthen the self-organization of citizens living in rural settlements, that is, civil society organisations. Thank you for listening. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-05-05-206	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-05-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have come to an important point, and we have an important bill ahead of us. I think that the quality of life of Hungarian people will be improved by the useful, quality spending of leisure time within the framework of community programmes and activities, which will transform individuals into a solidarity-based community. Society is built from communities, art, sports, science, culture, local patriot, youth, pensioner, religious, charitable, traditional, artisan, nature-walking, social and family communities throughout the nation in the Carpathian Basin. The communities are equally important to the inhabitants of small settlements and villages, who can also preserve, cultivate culture and traditions in local cultural houses, and it is equally important for those living in the alienating atmosphere of large cities, communities providing security and a sense of belonging. They are free to create real civil society organisations and associations in order to carry out the activities of communities effectively and organised. Civil society in Hungary is strong, and I am talking about the real 61,000 civil society organisations, not the few dozen civil society organisations funded from abroad that are trying to gain all kinds of political influence in Hungarian public life without social embeddedness, but we are talking about 61 thousand real, value-creating civil society organisations here. The central budget also supports civil society organisations. It is pleased that the funding envelope available to civil society organisations from municipal, state or EU sources has now increased to HUF 370 billion. This used to be 114 billion forints. I think that a significant increase can also help the development and construction of civil society and communities in Hungary, and this is the way to proceed, as the budget for the National Cooperation Fund has increased from HUF 3.4 billion in 2012 to HUF 7.7 billion in 2012-2020, and by 2021 we plan to increase further to an amount of over 9 billion. At the same time, we see that it is also a joyful process that the number of applications received is increasing year after year, so there are more and more of the 61 thousand civil society organisations active, more and more, which have the strength to implement programmes and applications, and which require this kind of assistance from the state. The regulation on civil society organisations needs to be reviewed from time to time, so regular consultation with representatives of civil society organisations is required, since the practical experience of their day-to-day operation requires that procedural rules be amended and simplified if necessary. At the end of 2017, Parliament adopted a major legislative package to simplify the procedural rules of civil society organisations, to reduce forensic and judicial deadlines, which saves civil society organisations time, energy and costs, as more than half a million people in civil society organisations work as volunteers in Hungary, and obviously their lives need to be filled by community building and community development, and they need to spend as little time as possible with administrative activities. Unfortunately, then, the MSZP did not support this simplification proposal, but I hope that they have agreed with it since then, because it has been proven in practice, in real life, that it matters to civil society organisations to shorten deadlines, to reduce administrative burdens. In any case, the purpose of this amendment is to ensure the smooth exercise of the right of association, preferably to the greatest extent possible. The purpose of this bill is to enable as many civil society organisations as possible to receive as much support as possible. The bill also includes the following specific amendments: increasing the amount of simplified support for civil society organisations from HUF 200,000 to HUF 300 thousand; extending the beneficiary circle with civil society organisations operating in settlements of 5 thousand people and sub-populations, the senior official of which is also mayor. The amendment to the name of the civil information centres underlines that the activities of associations and foundations with real social embedded values are supported by civil community service centres with free of charge services. I have had the opportunity and opportunity to take a look at the operation of civil information centres under the law still in force today, as there is a civil information centre selected on the basis of a tender in all counties and in Budapest, which is provided by a civil society organisation. The holding of this title involves a great deal of tasks, providing guidance on applications, training for civil society organisations in the counties, organizing various programs, providing legal advice, and consulting applications. I think that they are doing very important work in terms of the fact that civil society in Hungary is a horizontal society. We cannot say who... If we say that we want to coordinate with civilians, it is an extremely diverse area, so it is important that these civil society organisations are taken up in the counties, help these civil society organisations, help them in their community-creating, community-building activities. From the experience of the past years, since this civil information centre started as an EU programme in the first three years of the programme, and then became a Hungarian budget programme, because it was valuable, it was worth keeping, it was important, I suggest all civil society organisations that, if they do not already have a relationship, visit the information centre in their county or now a community service centre, because they also contribute with the free service to enable a civil society organisation to operate and apply as efficiently as possible. Supporting and strengthening communities is particularly timely, because after weeks in quarantine and months, people will want to restart community life. I think that the various decisions of the Prime Minister's Office, which have seen the light of day and concern civil society organisations, are also exemplary in this regard, since everyone in the civil world can know the obligations that all represent the gathering of the company's senior officials, the drawing up of the report, the deposit or the submission to the court. The current situation makes it possible that, in the current emergency, the government has enabled them to organise the necessary forums for their operation electronically, and now civil society organisations and their accounting reports will be able to operate electronically in this situation and submit them to civil society organisations by 30 September instead of the deadline of 31 May. I think that these facilitations or deadlines will certainly make life easier for these civil society organisations. What is even more important is that there will be a delay in the implementation of the programmes of the proposals already won at a later date, as it is perfectly logical that in last year's NEA calls, very many people wanted to implement the various Community programmes, camps and events that are clearly not feasible because of the situation caused by the corona virus epidemic. [[21.50]] It is very important that we extend these support periods, and in the autumn, next spring, or when this is possible, they will be able to organise these programmes, not to lose any valuable programs organised by civil society organisations, not to lose any value-creating events, so it is important that they can be held later. The government's guidance has also helped. Obviously, our goal is for community life to return, and communities to be at least as strong if they are not stronger as they were before the epidemic. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-05-208	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-05-209	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I tried to follow his expo, but sometimes he gets so caught up in it, and he grinds it up so fast that I couldn't write everything down, so I'm gonna quote a few quotes. Obviously, I am not speaking from the legal harmonisation part of the bill, but from the national cooperating part. In this respect, the government, let us say, to small settlements, small settlements of less than 5,000 people and, in particular, to civilians, to give more money from the budget, could be fully supported. By the way, the use of this to create political dependence, political vulnerability and virtually fidesz occupation of society is simply amazing. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] I believe it's amusing for my fellow Member. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, it is!]] And I'm sure you're enjoying this, but it's not gonna end well. [[Csaba Nagy: Unfortunately we don't enjoy it!]] This isn't gonna end well. So what's going on is that the Secretary of State said these things in his expo, that civil society is a useful pillar of society, that it is very important to have diverse activities, value-creating work. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, why do you have to demand that only the mayors receive this money, but only the civil society that they run? Where's the diverse activity here? Where is the voluntary value-creating work? How do these two fit together? I'm sure you're familiar with civil society organizations for what they do. Why should the mayors be involved in this on an exclusive basis? [[Nacsa Lawrence: What? Dr. Balázs Orbán: Why do you have to say something that isn't true?]] He says, Mr. Secretary, that there are 15,000 civil society organisations under a settlement of 5,000 people. There was a problem there, but that's exactly how I heard it from the Fidesz leader. He also said, Mr Secretary, that this is what the mayor of civil society has said in several cases. Can you tell me how many out of 15,000 are more cases? Five? Eight? Ten thousand? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Between the two!]] I'm guessing if they wrote this law, they must have just looked at it. There are two parts of the proposal, the extension of the Hungarian village programme and the extension of the support of the National Cooperation Fund, and it would be stipulated here that the application for the program is possible if the head of the NGO is the mayor of the settlement. That's what the law says. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Read the proposal, Congressman.]] Good. I read on the Internet, I would like to ask you, Mr. Secretary of State application for village NGOs, it is already on the Internet. It says that the maximum amount that can be won as a grant is HUF 6 million, small settlement, under 5,000, NGOs, minimum HUF 2 million, maximum HUF 6 million. It is also described here, as my fellow Member has said, that it is possible to buy a car from it, and it can be used for the maintenance, renovation of different vehicles, for the purchase of non-machine driven vehicles, for the acquisition of real estate, for the renovation of owned property, and the rest, and the rest, I say, between HUF 2-6 million per piece. The invitation to tender is up on the Internet, public notice: have at least one closed business year, have an accounting report deposited with the court office for the last closed year. Not yet, but when we pass this bill, they'll rewrite these applications and get the mayors involved, right? They're not gonna get in there? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: No! You can say that, Congressman, but no way.]] There's no mayor, there's no mayor in the bill... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: You're in, but you don't have to.]] Oh, I see, but the mayors aren't excluded. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Socialists are not excluded! Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] I see! I see. In this respect, the Hungarian village programme, along with this announcement, was now scheduled for the purchase of public spaces, sidewalks, playgrounds, road maintenance, medical devices, except for the purchase of vehicles. That's a good question, by the way, why don't you do it through the settlements, but I'm just asking you this. Why do civil society organisations have a greater routine in this, for example, than local governments do? The other is the National Cooperation Fund, and within that we have now heard the increase of HUF 10 billion. This proposal concerns an increase in the fees of members of the College of the Council of the National Cooperation Fund, together with an increase in administrative burdens. Let us say a few things about how objective this can be. László Csizmadia, president of the National Cooperation Fund, was the Chairman of the Civil Cooperation Forum until the last few weeks. As I understand it, he was replaced a few weeks ago by the President of the Unbiased Civil Alliance Forum. Norbert László Heizler, former member of the board of directors of CÖKA, continues to play a role in the work of the organization. For example, the members of the NEA Board are Vice President Fidesz of Kiskunmajsa, Szilvia Bozókiné Veselovszki, former chief of staff of the human cabinet of Fidesz, Richard Bodrogi. I could say for a long time now, but these are clearly and clearly presented, and otherwise, the support stories published in the press in recent years are also concrete, that there is a lot of this advice, but not an independent civilian. Mr State Secretary, we cannot very much support the legislative proposals that appear two years before the elections, and they are about to be politically clear, demonstrably biased, money-sharing workshops that will start handing out public funds, not in a clearly visible way and not according to exactly visible values. We think it's a much better solution when civilians themselves distribute money among themselves or among themselves with the leaders they choose, on the one hand, and on the other hand, this whole thing can be controlled and handled publicly. Anyway, once again, by increasing the amount of support itself and by giving more money directly to small settlements, we agree to the full extent of it, but that through the National Civil Fund, or I'm sorry, on the National Cooperation Fund, that's a good word, somehow it doesn't come through the number, and we can't really agree with that. We know their tools, and we know how, let's say, in a fair election operation, Fidesz has used what tools and how it has used them in recent years. We live in this country, we meet small town mayors, they tell us who and what they have to meet in this country to get their settlement money. We cannot support this process, this type of organised society. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-05-210	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski, on behalf of DK. [[22.00]]
u2020-05-05-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to begin by saying that I think it is worth taking a bit of a look at the issue when every law is being amended, reviewing in Hungarian the problems and current situation of the area that it intends to regulate, even if the specific amendment may only concern a small part of it. That's how I'd do it right now. Let me mention in the first minutes of my speech things that have been typical or characteristic of the entire civil sphere in the last ten years. I'd like to start from what this world is all about, what we're talking about in the civil sphere. Civil society organisations perform tasks that the state cannot or does not want to perform. There are many organisations among them that have been brought up as examples, which provide for the organisation of the community in any way, and we talk about many things through cultural associations from sports associations. With regard to them, it would be possible to consider where the limits of public tasks lie and what the role of civil society organisations is which is saving. But the point is, of course, there are civil society organisations of this type in all countries, in all societies. However, I would mention another group, even if this was not said in the exposé. Indeed, civil society organisations are organisations which in some way carry out control, accountability, criticism of the current power. Yeah, they're civil society organisations, even if this bill isn't written on them. Moreover, civil society organisations, as a consequence of the civilian world, are not hierarchically built, can not typically be divided into any classic organizational system, can not be instructed in a well-functioning and orderly country. If you like, these control NGOs are spikes under the nails, under the fingernails of power, and of course it is well that it works that way in a normal country. So, what happened in Hungary in the last ten years? We know we have a lot of stories about how and how this system was distorted by the Orbán government. In the last ten years, on the one hand, he has tried to consciously build up civil society organisations for his own interests (a) to create, (b) if they already existed, to make them even stronger and even more significant by means of financial and other regulation. While on the other side, he refuses to submit to it, and even to any political criticism of government policy, they have tried to make it impossible, to prevent them from operating, and to use it in their press. A few events, in particular. We all remember, when the refugee crisis reached Hungary, what campaign was launched in the media against organisations helping refugees from a humane point of view, but here in the House, too, against them, and then their legislative stigmatisation took place. The government's instruments included the fact that the law, which was set up in 2011, and the amendment of which we are talking about now, when the National Cooperation Fund was set up instead of the National Civil Fund, then the civil participation of roughly two thirds of the time was reduced to one third. So, in the past, it was pretty much the civilians who decided on the money and the support, but instead, instead of the civilian members, there were delegates with a government mandate, I say, a majority of about two-thirds. Several figures have been made here in the area of resources. Yes, there is a place to go, because after 2010, there was a great setback. About HUF 7-7.5 billion was spent on this in 2009-2010, which has now fallen to 2.8 billion. You can be glad that this is going to be over 10 billion again, but the only problem is that it will be given almost exclusively to organisations loyal to the government, compatible with government policy. That's right, gentlemen. And this was also helped by the creation of one that had not been before, there is a ministerial framework that accounts for about 10 percent of the subsidies, where then it is decided, on the basis of a completely obviously harsh party political interest, who receives that support. For non-supported organisations, the waiting list has been established so that if someone does not request the money, the waiting list organisations can receive it. It was obviously an illusion, too. I know that this does not impress the honourable government representatives, but the ethos of civility have also been damaged in these ten years. Yes, no matter how much Congressman Nacha shakes his head. For government actors in civilian robes have appeared, and civil society organisations have become political actors, which are not, in fact, civil society organisations, only in the name of them. Think of the CÖF, which organises the peace process, or the various foundations of the MNB, which then do everything from buying art through real estate investment, including the support of individuals, not transparently, but from tax forints, uncontrolled, without public control. I would just like to mention one more thing as a general rule about the situation of civil society organisations, the administrative burden. However, it has been said here that this has decreased significantly. Well, I've had the pleasure of knowing a lot of civil society organizations. That's not what they're reporting. In particular, they say that they have to operate almost as companies, and that they are subject to nearly the same reporting and financial and management regulations as companies, but they do not have the opportunity, let's say, to use a team of professionals or other assistance from their incomes that will cause them to suffer disadvantages. Let us then move on to a concrete proposal. What is this proposal about that we have before us? The main element of the proposal is that it expands the circle of beneficiaries, i.e. those who can receive money, from now on those NGOs operating in settlements of less than 5,000 people, also those whose mayor is in charge. This is not about anything else, because we know that Fidesz has been significantly overrepresented in small settlements, and that Fidesz has also been significantly overrepresented among mayors. We know that a large proportion of small-scale mayors are fidesz or, even if they are independent, there are a significant number of Fidesz-supported ones. Indeed, this is all about preparing for the 2022 campaign and election in these settlements. The government will give money to organizations you can count on when the campaign comes. And that's a lot of money. About 9-10 billion forints were said here from the mouths of several Members. Transparency will also be reduced as the fund manager will not be obliged to provide publicity to the successful tenderer or the aid awarded. They're taking this relevant section out of the law. The representatives of civil society organisations receiving significant budget support will no longer be obliged to make declarations of assets. These parts are taken out of the law the way they are. Finally, it is also excluded from the law that if they do not manage badly and receive budget support subject to reimbursement obligations, they will no longer collect it as a public debt. These parts have also been deleted. But the same will happen even if the money is not used as stated in the grant agreement. To sum up, Fidesz will also provide financial support to the fake, fake NGOs close to it, with tens of billions of forints in the next two years. We have heard, and I am sorry, shame, shame, dear government representatives and authors, DK will not support this, will not vote for it, and will protest against it everywhere. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-212	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2020-05-05-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I agree that when we talk about a bill, it is worth reviewing its background and its objectives. That's what the lead speaker of Fidesz, Congressman Csaba Nagy, spoke about. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, for a few questions, to have the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, to answer some questions. I'd like to approach the question a little differently. We heard a lot here from Csaba Nagy about the program of the Hungarian village. Although we are both Pécsi, I think we cannot question it, Mr Csaba Nagy is no longer a Pécsi about each other, that we are both committed to the fate of small settlements. We are from Baranya, and Baranya is a county with a special settlement system, which consists of 301 settlements, and the structure of the settlement is quite fragmented. We are talking about 5,000 people in the context of small settlements, and we know that we can talk about Zala in Baranya, or even Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, 5,000 people are not related to small settlements. There are 301 settlements in Baranya, and perhaps seven of them exceed 5,000 inhabitants in terms of population, and all others are smaller than this. The point is that I agree very, very much, and we agree that there is a huge need to support small settlements in the coming regions. We can talk about even balanced development in a country if it extends to small settlements, if we can give again to small settlements, even the smallest settlements, the future, their functioning and the basis for their survival. We know that there is a huge lag in this respect, and we can experience very bad processes practically continuously since the change of regime, but obviously before that, practically since the 1970s and 1980s. At the time, it was a socialist idea that small settlements were considered inefficient settlements and did not support their development. Unfortunately, after the change of regime, governments typically did not pay enough attention to supporting small settlements. [[22.10]] Balliberal governments before 2010 were still rightly criticized by Fidesz from the opposition at the time, but unfortunately we can say that they have not changed fundamentally after 2010; rhetoric has changed, but action has not, and therefore rather terrible and tragic social processes can be observed, emigration from the smallest settlements is enormous. In order to remember in a few words the steps taken by the Orbán government after 2010, we can see that it has greatly reduced the powers, resources and, in the case of small settlements, almost evacuated these powers and the... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Debt transfer!]] The debt transfer, which was not a government but a state debt transfer, was actually accompanied by a withdrawal of resources, opportunities and powers, in which I think we can agree, Mr Nacsa. The infrastructure that is essential for small settlements to survive has been destroyed to an incredible extent since 2010. Access to the most important public services has continued to deteriorate and, moreover, the provision of Community transport services is deteriorating, and the government has not taken any meaningful steps in this respect. In recent years, these trends have increased and we see this, and we also see from week to week that small settlements are exposed to extreme weather conditions, the effects of climate change, in many respects. The impact of all this, this not village-friendly, can be said to be a village-breaking government policy, is that they are very bad, the demographic processes are terrible, the exodus from these settlements is insane, and if they do not, let us say, take effective measures in terms of a real rural-friendly policy, then we will be witnessing very difficult demographic processes that can be changed or reversed. In this regard, however, I must draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the impact that the measures taken in recent weeks will have on us. You have taken serious austerity measures to the municipalities here, and this is a fundamental liquidity problem for two thirds of small settlements. A few weeks ago, as a result of an investigation, we have seen that two thirds of small settlements expect that they will not be able to manage this withdrawal from one of the most important sources in terms of vehicle tax, so they will not be able to carry out a lot of tasks that are mandatory or voluntary municipal tasks, which will have unforeseen consequences. I think that you should consider this, and I say to the Secretary of State that this brutal austerity should be withdrawn, because those resources could be transferred from the budget to other lines, so small settlements should not be subject to such unmanageable, unmanageable austerity measures. In terms of the objectives set out, the Hungarian village programme is very important and must be supported, and we can say that it is a deficit-replaced development policy instrument, but we can see that unfortunately there are no budgetary resources behind it that this programme can explain its effects. I'll give you just one example: this year there are enough resources in the Hungarian village programme for the development of the lower road network to renovate only 450 kilometres, even though there are 17 thousand kilometres of back roads waiting for the immediate renovation, there are 17,000 kilometres of roads in the worst two categories. It is therefore clear from the scale that the programme has been launched, that it can be agreed with the declared objectives, but that there are no budgetary resources behind it that would allow the real impact to be achieved. Turning to this proposal, I have already mentioned that if we are talking about small settlements, then the category of 5,000 does not really match. So the 5,000 people can no longer be seen as small settlements, there are also villages in the lowland area, but I think that over 5,000 people we are typically talking about cities, not small settlements. And I also acknowledge that there are obviously a lot of civil society organisations that, let's say, mayor of leadership, and for which this amendment may be justified, yet we are concerned that this conflict of interest will be eliminated in this way, and that we are also afraid of it, and not on the basis of the described text, but on the basis of experience that it may prevail here to override the aspects of professionalism and efficiency, let us say, such a political aspect, and not necessarily a party political aspect, but a local political aspect. Because it is obvious that if there is a small settlement and there is a mayor with a civil society organization, then in a local community he has such a dominant weight that in such a case, let's say, it makes it difficult for other civil society organisations to have access to resources, obviously in a small settlement in terms of lobbying power, the mayor is inevitable. We therefore do not consider this regulation to be good either. What my fellow Member has referred to is inexplicable and incomprehensible, and this has not been mentioned by the authors or by the members of the Government that the proposal repeals the obligation to declare assets of senior officials receiving significant budget support, so they do not have to do so. Explain to me why this is necessary. I think that there is also a reason for greater transparency in all these public-funded development policy instruments, and that, in the case of asset declaration procedures, we can also make a lot of criticism of the current system, so this should not be relaxed, but rather tightened up, that would be justified. I would therefore like to ask why these amendments are justified, especially if we are talking about the programme of the Hungarian village, and if the Secretary of State is already here, then I would like to have an answer to what chances there are that in the next period there will be substantial resources behind the programme of the Hungarian village, and finally there will be a government policy that supports the survival of Hungarian villages not only in words but also in actions and measures, which we believe is a national issue. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-214	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-05-05-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, I would like to respond to two or three things. I understand that Mr Harangozó does not like the results of the elections in small settlements, but the catching up of small settlements and the civilian life in small settlements are as important as in the cities, so please do not deny them or claim in the minutes that only civil society organisations managed by mayors can apply. It's not like that. This opportunity opens up in addition to what has already been done. Don't tell me that mayors are the only ones who can apply. In connection with the National Cooperation Fund, he talked about whether you think there are Fidesz party soldiers involved or elected to the electoral system, or whether they are uploaded. The Index, which cannot be accused of right-winging, was in Hungary between 2002 and 2010, when there was a much less favourable period for the country, then your organizational director sent around all the MSZP party organizations to recruit party soldiers into the civil base program, the letter was leaked out, and the Index brought it on the front page. You were the ones who wanted to put party soldiers into the then civil base program with considerable success, it was on the Index cover at the time, and the entire letter was here, and you recruited the left-wing party soldiers to put them into certain civil society organisations. And if the DK representative has already raised the various disguises and civil society organisations associated with political activists here, it is enough to look at the recent municipal election, that you have hidden your mayor's candidates behind all the civil society organisations with MSZP, SZDSZ and Gyurcsányist ties. That's what happened in Zuglo, that's how it was with László Botka, the Liget Defenders, who you call civilians, the Liget Defenders, the Gyurcsányist cabinet member, the MSZP former press chief, the PM party soldier, these were the people you call civilians; but who have the civil society people associated with parties, and how they enroll in civil society organisations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-216	Thank you, Congressman. I am also giving the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, on a two-minute comment.
u2020-05-05-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just for the record: I was wrong about the role of the mayors, and I apologise, and let us be clear on this, and perhaps our reservations have been more and more explicitly expressed in this regard by Mr Crusades Group leader, and I will not repeat that. I can't even tolerate Mr Nacsa twisting my words and putting things in my mouth that for us or for me personally, the support of people living in small towns or of civil society organisations there is not important. It's very important that I started with this. You can't quote anything contrary to me. At least it's as important for me to get these money in a decent, transparent and good place, and at the moment, although there may have been something on the Index cover, and something leaked now doesn't have to be on the Index cover, because it's effective for the leaders of Fidesz' backup organizations and NGOs to sit on this board. [[22.20]] So you don't have to look for leaks like this, because you put it in people's faces, and you're proud of it. I don't like it. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-218	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2020-05-05-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, we will talk about at about a quarter of 11 a.m. about how justified, legal, lifelike and purpose this proposal is. We all know that nothing happens in Fidesz by accident. I think we've learned that for the last ten years and we can say that. It is also a fact that if a responsible politician in Hungary does not take the view that there is no money that small settlements do not deserve, then it is not a responsible politician. Unfortunately, in the socialist system, the killing of small settlements has begun, and I don't want to hurt anyone, but in the last thirty years, as much as they like each other, their activities have not brought salvation to these settlements. We see progress in small settlements where the local manager or perhaps a major entrepreneur has a strong lobbying power in the current government. Neither justice, nor expediency, nor necessity generally dictated the acquisition of subsidies, but rather some kind of political or economic influence. I think it really doesn't matter what legal background or legal basis settles the possibility of these subsidies, I always look at them and look at them, and my political community also considers that they are useful to the social community that we are targeting in this case. In any case, it is useful for the Hungarian village program that civil society organisations, who, I very much hope, do not carry out public tasks... because most of the time it is also a problem that civil society organisations perform public tasks. CSOs should not build roads, public works, libraries, medical clinics, veterinary clinics or anything that is otherwise part of a community service, but should indeed remain in the field of sport, culture, scientific development, or even special professions for children, which cannot be implemented in the school system. The aim would therefore be to ensure that civil society organisations serve the emotional, mental, physical development of society, and by no means to carry out public tasks. What have we experienced in the last ten years? As much as I think that this proposal can have an honest, fair purpose, but understand now, we know that nothing ever happens by accident. We turn in, we turn to the second half of the cycle, and everyone's preparing for 22:00. Everyone, there's no need to deny that. I do not believe that this proposal was not made because a number of local government leaders with strong lobbying powers at Fidesz did not complain that they were missing some kind of opportunity. Of course, the government was given the opportunity, wow, really, not to be able to tell Auntie Kati, Aunt Juli, that she should vote for Fidesz in 22nd, because we couldn't do what I could do with the weaving circle, because we didn't get the support because the only intellectual of the settlement, the mayor, was the head of the NGO. So it's sanctimonious to say that, wow, we suddenly realized how irresponsiblely we were or weren't paying attention to something. This process went through well with a method. The village leaders complained, for example, that Mr Csaba Nagy, a representative of a hundred and seventy-some settlements, wanted to pay attention to children, to be so honest that so many and so many NGOs would be excluded from this opportunity. So there's absolutely no point in putting it in such a glaze, I'll tell you, there's no money I wouldn't give to the small settlements. There's no money! It was a seven-year research by an institution of the European Union on how urbanization of European peoples evolved, how close the peoples were to nature, the harms or benefits of civilization, and it came out that the Hungarian society, despite running towards the cities over the last 50-60 years, has been the remaining natural people. If someone, for example, I support that as many people as possible move back to small settlements and create the infrastructure there that can buy a service that is close to a city, because the urbanization of Hungarian society has serious identity crisis, personality disorder, depression, soil degradation, socialisation problems. This is a very important part of all our social problems. So a responsible politician has to say that all the money for small settlements, in case you withdraw a lot of people who can manage there, and the life situation there takes him back to the original nature he never lost, even if he's in town. So with me, you and my political community will always talk about it, and we will always support it. Just don't make it possible for anyone in May 2020 to assume that this is likely to include elements of the future campaign. I believe that this proposal is greatly undermined by the repealed legislation because it has a message. You can say that these commitments are included in other legislation, so that there is transparency and accountability, so that these subsidies are not used for their own purposes, and that private assets are increased. Otherwise, there are a number of legislation that makes up for the existence of these measures, no doubt. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It is only true, and this should be understood, pro-government politicians, that as long as there is opposition and it sends a message to society about what you experience in the House of the country, you can now, for example, pass on in this legislative proposal that you want to remove the possibility of checking what you have used for. Make me understand, sometimes you have to give it to appearances. And to the appearance that the government is committed to ensuring that no one in the use of subsidies and any public funds is able to abuse their situation, is able to use these subsidies for their own benefit and not for their original purpose, but for their private assets. In any case, they should not be able to make public money into private pockets in the use of real aid. So you have to understand that when this kind of presumption arises in an opposition representative, it is simply because at least half of society expects us not only to be honest but also to be honest. How many times do you quote that when you want to hurt the socialists, and how many times do they quote you? ! We see this boxing, this decade-long boxing. I feel like, for example, when you talk about the cost girl, how much they're giving to the council members right now, it's not interested, it's minimal, it's work, it's work, it's money, it's work, it's money, you can't get involved. I really don't want to go down to such a low-level level, whether you're entitled to a refund or not, and how much. It's a minimum amount. So anyone who starts to tease me about this is really stupid. But there is a certain appearance of this proposal that it was not born because they suddenly realized that we had missed something out of regulation or not written well, but that there really was some sort of lobbying activity here. I ask of you, with all due respect, that you have the bar of government: small settlements need development in all respects, not only in infrastructure, not only in services, but in human capacity. Abandoned Hungarian society lives in small settlements; in itself, there are psychically vulnerable masses of people who are practically growing up on the propaganda channel of M1. In general, we or the average urban person do not even meet them, even though they are the most difficult social group in Hungarian society. [[22.30]] And if you think you're making such serious money to make some kind of progress through civil society organisations, consider this a truly sacred matter, do not change into small change. There is so much money in the budget, in EU grants, in orders, there must be the money someone wants to earn, but in this segment they do not feel sorry for the money, and out of this segment all suspicions of corruption or suspicion of influence that is inappropriate. You know, you see, corruption is happening, and you don't deny it; it's another matter that they always tell us to prove it. But I do not want to deal with this right now, but that if, as a sacred matter, Minister of State Balázs Orbán has presented this as a mission, for which this legislative amendment has been brought here, then please make it such a sacred matter in practice, and for once, let us say, we can say, in a year and a year and a half, that our fellow Member, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, who has an amazing mission, was right, and there is no need to assume any fault or decent intention in this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You can say it now!]] I can't tell you at this moment how we're going to support it, because there's a terrible duality in man. I told you that there is no money that the community of small settlements does not deserve, and that we would need a huge amount of budget money for real, meaningful improvements, not with the help of civil society organisations, but from a state budget. It is not always possible to get the budget law out of what they should, but if you really feel responsible for society living in small settlements in the long term, and also for society who is so urban that they will never be, and should really help you to return to the natural environment where they can expand their true personality development, then this sacred cause presented by Secretary Balázs Orbán should remain. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-05-220	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The better fellow Members have been watching boxing between us and the red corner for decades. I'm sorry that the congresswoman and the ladies chose that red corner, they stood next to them, and now they're not watching this boxing from the outside, but they're standing in that corner, and they're going to continue from there. They joined the corner, by the way, for those who had a government policy on the private wealth of state property and robbery privatisation. So you're accusing us of that right now? No one should be able to increase their private wealth from any kind of public support, civil organisation support, in this one point I fully agree with you, and to spend all public money in civil society organisations, including civil society organisations that may be led by the mayor in a small settlement. Be clean, and no one can increase their private wealth. You're the only one who's joined forces with the people who did this, who had this basic government policy. I was proud to hear you say that nothing happens in Fidesz by accident. I am proud of the fact that there is a government in Hungary who does not leave government to chance, and things are not happening the way it wakes up in the morning, but we are progressing on the basis of a conscious strategy, a strategy for nation-building, a strategy for national reunification and a strategy for country-building. I am proud that there is not a random government going on, as it was during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, where it was the Sukoro investors, or, I don't know, that Russian interests had to be served. I am glad that this is not the way in which governance is conducted and that there are no coincidences in Fidesz-KDNP and governance. Congresswoman! You say that a responsible politician should give all the resources to the small settlements. We totally agree on that. We just need to change the words to action. Where were you when these proposals should have been supported, when you should have adopted a budget that leaves tens of billions of HUF for health promotions, church development, educational development, road development in the most backward area, right at the small settlements? Because these words sound beautiful, and you describe it as a sacred cause, only the sacred cause should become a reality with you, not just here, because it happened with our vote, unfortunately not with yours. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-222	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy in two minutes.
u2020-05-05-223	Thank you very much. I would not like to say names of Members, Mr President, but rather a general, I think that I would like to replace a culture of debates that is now missing from the Hungarian Parliament, because I think that if we want to argue with each other, then it would be good to listen to each other. I think that this number of 5,000 people is always said in small settlements, so if we look at the results of the election, perhaps eleven people are the community where the least people vote on the future development of local public life, for example, in these communities, if we are talking about the Hungarian village, an application can be submitted in such a way that the board discusses this, not one person, not the mayor, but the body. In the small settlement you can see that you bought medical supplies, you're in the medical office, you've bought the village bus, you're out on the street, you can see what it's used for, if you're looking for road construction or sidewalk construction, that's what you can see. With regard to the Hungarian village, the check can be carried out, carried out by all the citizens living there on the spot, and there is clearly, tangible evidence of what they have applied for. At a public board meeting, they're gonna make a report on him, and I'm sure they'll tell him in the local newsroom, either at the village rally, or to each other down the street, or in the pub. Everyone knows everything, everyone knows everything. Now, to address these settlements, these local leaders in the same way you have addressed them here and there, I think this is a category of insult, and I would like to ask for it on their behalf. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-224	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes.
u2020-05-05-225	My colleague Lőrinc Nacsa told me who we were dealing with. On the one hand, we didn't get involved with anyone, but then I'd like to ask you how to get in touch with you. With the party who, in five years, raised the Prime Minister's childhood buddy among the ten richest people in the world, and directed most of the public money to that party, and where they build a highway at a gold price? [[Nacsa Lawrence: M6!]] Because the 2 billion forints was already a gold price, but now we're talking about 17 billion forints building a kilometer of highways. You're telling us to join forces with you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] Where everything costs a lot more than what it really is? Where they give back 30-40-50-70 percent? Where I know exactly that 90 percent of such orders, opinions and proposal orders must be reversed, and the reason why the Hungarian entrepreneurial faculty became an offshore knight is because they can't do anything other than legalize the money distributed by billing offshore companies? Well, there's been a series of serious crimes for ten years. He's got Stromones' system! Let's see, people whose IQs were 18, they didn't work anywhere in their lives. We're gonna see how, and we're gonna find out we're talking about a crowd legitimizing a lot of illegal property. I pray so much that my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, will face the reality that surrounds him for once in his life. I love you so much that you believe, I'm so glad that you believe everything you show me, but believe me, it's not real. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-226	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2020-05-05-227	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is a much more serious question than going into such a party-political battle, but I still have to respond to Congressman Nacsa's speech. You compared Fidesz-MSZP change management to such an orange-red boxing match. I think we can say that a country suffers from these successive government cycles. You're accusing the congresswoman of taking sides with the Reds. I can tell you, Mr Nacsa, that if we look at the results and look at your actions, you are imitating the reds, their spiritual ancestors, in more and more ways, even in rural policy. However, I would like to ask you a specific question. You are talking about the need to act, so not only must we talk about, say, rural policy, but we need to act. I asked Mr. Secretary, but I'll ask you too. You have taken austerity measures now in relation to local governments, and it is clear that two thirds of small settlements are unable to do anything about it, and will not be able to manage this withdrawal. There is an intention in you, the KDNP fraction, to consider withdrawing this restriction, and at least in this situation, when you have a huge responsibility for defence and a great deal of responsibility for small settlements, to withdraw this austerity measure and give small settlements the opportunity to survive, to remain operational and to fight for the people living there in such a serious epidemiological situation. Thank you. [[22.40]]
u2020-05-05-228	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to comment on what has been said. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2020-05-05-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! Thank you very much for the debate, for the constructive and less constructive contributions. If I sublimate this well, then perhaps it is possible and not biased to sum up that there are no serious reservations about the bill, and we have heard a political debate concerning the general rural development civilian sector. I hope, therefore, that there is a chance that we can adopt this bill in a way that goes beyond party policy logic, which, once again, brings down bureaucracy and simplification to these tens of thousands of organisations. If I may, I would certainly respond to constructive claims which cannot be kept factually. Mr Beller has left, but for the record, I would like to say that he said that he does not want to talk about the legal harmonisation of the proposal. I am pleased that there is no such connection to the proposal. Then he also said what has already been said here before, and I would just like to confirm that we would like to propose an amendment that will only open the tendering opportunities to civil society organisations alongside the senior office of mayors. That's quite simply not true. I am very pleased that you have read the terms of the application from the government website, so it is also published in the minutes of the Parliament, it is quite clear that there is no such condition, and there is no proposal for this amendment. If it is necessary to respond briefly to the basic political points that you have formulated, who is a civilian, who is not a civilian, who is not a civilian: I have listened quite sadly to this line of opposition speeches, because a country is much more beautiful and colorful than it looks in your distorted image. So there is no binary code here, there is no friend, there is no enemy; there are people in the country who do not even care about politics; there are people who do not express their will in the elections; there are people who once support right-wing, sometimes left-wing parties, but these people also work in the community, they do community activities, and they are in the interests of the country, regardless of what kind of voters they are, in some civil activity circle, foundation, non-profit association, participate. And I think this is our Parliament and our poverty certificate, if we try to get these people into such a binary code logic that they are now right-wing or left-wing. I don't think so. The looming circle mentioned by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm: I cannot imagine the situation where members of the looming circle rank each other on the basis of who is pro-government and who is the opposition voter. They probably rank each other on the basis of who can weave better and better, and that's the right thing to do. And it is worth it to support them, because the activity that they are doing, I say to Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, is simply useful to the country. And the fact that those voting for a Democratic Coalition or voting for Fidesz are completely irrelevant in this respect. I'm sad to hear you don't know this world so well that you can't imagine what these organizations are dealing with. That they're educational, sports... [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] This does not apply to all Members, and I would like to respond to some of the opposition representatives' speeches; that they do sport activities, educational activities, various social activities, they do not politicalize. Indeed, we agree that there is a need to distinguish between two types of organisations in this regard, and it is certain that there will be a debate between us, because that we should not compare a stamp collecting association or a looming circle to a power conglomerate representing an international lobbying force, as long as those NGOs, those non-profit-making non-governmental organizations, are the Soros organisations that you support. Let us not compare the resources, goals, and opportunities of the stamp collection circle to these organizations. And indeed, what I know is that these organisations support you, I see that, which is why we do not agree with their activities, because we think that the activity they are carrying on is not good for the country. But that doesn't mean we won't have the political debate. The problem is that they are hiding, they are not taking responsibility on the basis of popular representation, but they are trying to gain political power through informal international channels by hiding behind such a neutral-looking civilian disguise. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And we don't support that. And we have created a system where these organisations do not receive state resources, because the activity they do is not useful for Hungary. And I understand that as a paid agent for these organizations, [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] here in politics and in Parliament, you say that, but here there will be a difference of opinion between us that, as long as we sit here, we will not be able to resolve, and I am very pleased about that. And I can't deal with the contradiction or paradox that, on the one hand, I heard from all opposition speakers that when they speak to the leaders of civil society organisations, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't say that!]] when they are informed of the leaders of civil society organisations, from the leaders of organisations and organisations involved in this tendering scheme. That's on one side, that's one sentence. The second sentence is that only Fidesz party organisations can receive party money through this structure in the context of preparing for the 2022 election. Are you now communicating with and cooperating with such organizations? It's an unsolvable opposite, it's a logical loophole, it's a paradox. So you also acknowledge that the organisations you are talking about may complain that the organisation is bureaucratic, that they may complain that administrative relief may be possible, that is what the bill is about, but you yourself confirm that these organisations have nothing to do with politics, because they are talking to Congressman Nacsa as, say, Mr Crusade Group leader, and that is the right thing to do, because they are involved in weaving, collecting stamps, organizing cultural programmes and all other things. Only this is a logical contradiction in your speech and I have heard this in several speeches, which would be good to resolve, and that would be good for the quality of the debate in Parliament. Mr Crusade Group Leader, and finally I would like to conclude by saying two questions which are not specifically related to the text of the bill, but which are still related to the subject, allow me to reply briefly. One of the programs is the Hungarian village. I think that the program of the Hungarian village would have focused specifically on the smallest settlements, focusing the attention of the entire administration, the entire administration, the entire government on the problems of these settlements, a structure through which the voice of these settlements would appear directly in the Prime Minister's Office, in the centre of government. I think it's an exemplary thing. [[22.50]] I, when we talked about the programme of the Hungarian village, argued and exchanged ideas in Parliament, said every time that I am proud that we have dedicated HUF 150 billion to this programme last year, and we are spending 150 billion on this programme in this year's budget, but I agree with the head of the group that makes sense if we can give it to these settlements next year, after next year, after that and after that, at least that much, but if possible more. Unfortunately, development programs are like that, they think long-term in non-governmental cycles. But what I would like to do is to have a consensus here between the parties that they would always listen to this line of budgets, and they would always be happy to take note of it if it was there in the next budget, and even lobbying for as much resources as possible. Consider, in ten years, this means not 150 billion forints, but 1500 billion forints, which is a serious help, something they have never received before. I fundamentally agree with your comment on road renewal and your comment on the state of the Hungarian road network. It's a serious debt that hasn't just been made. This debt has now been repaid, but it is undoubtedly right that this will be an important task for the next period. I would like to clarify so much that what you have said is that it is not only that within the framework of the Hungarian village, we can renew the 450 kilometers of inland roads, but also that there is a road fund of 150 billion of the Hungarian village programme, from which we can support and finance the renovation of the four and five-digit roads, in addition to the fact that there is a motorway construction and high-speed road construction programme that affects precisely the isolated parts of the settlements and parts of the country, which are represented in part by you and by other Members present here in the House, and which are seriously affected by the fact that they are not connected to the road network. So I would like to ask you that when you make the criticisms, I can only agree with them, only then you can see the development on the other side, see the positive trend, and not just bring up this resource, which we use for this purpose, because if you look at this source alone, you will get a deceptively low number, and we will sink into the swamp of such a political give-and-take again. My last point would be to forgive me for wasting your time in mentioning the funding of the local governments, too, by Mr Crusades. In all cases, in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, we have made it clear that solidarity and shared responsibility are needed. We started saving ourselves and sharing the burden, with the highest share of the central budget and the government sector receiving the redeployment we are trying to cover. But you are certainly right, too, that we have asked other actors to bear this common burden, including the political sphere, the Parliament and the local government sphere, multinational companies and banks, to participate in this common burden. We think it's good. We believe that this does not cause liquidity or budgetary problems in the municipalities. We say it many times, and it has also been said here in the debate, but it is still true that after 2010, the state took on certain tasks, freed these municipalities from debt, and if it looks at the figures, it will see that, in addition, the local government's own revenue has doubled in this period. So, with the debt gone, so that certain tasks were performed by the State, the own revenues doubled. Of course, if there is a local government, although the withdrawal related to the tax of motor vehicles does not fundamentally affect the smallest settlements, it is well known by the Member, but if there is a settlement where this will cause problems, and this problem is not due to the irresponsible management of the municipality, but to a structural problem, the government can help in these situations in the same way as before. So in this respect, I would like to address the Member's concern. Once again, thank you all for your contributions, thank you for your supporting contributions from the pro-government side and from the opposition side to the constructive part of the contributions, and I would like to ask you to support the bill later. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-05-230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, applied for a point of order. In fact, it is possible to do so now if there was personal involvement in the last sentences, otherwise there is no legal option, no house rule. [[For signal:]] But I wonder what the reason is.
u2020-05-05-231	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say one sentence. Secretary of State, political debates may take place here, but I think that it seriously violates the dignity of this House if you call a Hungarian Member of Parliament a paid agent as Secretary of State. I think that was a wrong statement. And I'm sorry, Mr President, I thought it was important to note this as a faction leader, even if it wasn't for the representative of my faction. Please, Mr Secretary, this style is not worthy of you either, and I hope you will avoid it in the future. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-05-232	All right. Thank you, that was not a point of order, but we listened. Good. Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the debate on today's agenda, so we are now going to have speeches after the agenda. First, after the agenda, László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Head of the Group, asked to speak with the title of Pécs, Pécs.
u2020-05-05-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At this late hour, I would like to talk about my home, Pécs, and I would like to announce a concrete cooperation intention here, following the conclusion of the Parliament's plenary session. We know that the most important thing in this difficult situation is to control the epidemic, protect human life and health, and that it is also a huge priority to face and fight the effects of the emerging economic crisis and to support people and families in a difficult situation. We also know that, and we have talked many times about today's meeting about the enormous responsibility and responsibility of the Hungarian authorities, we can say that the number one bastions of defence are the municipalities. In this respect, there are huge challenges for municipalities and cities that are in a very difficult situation regardless of the epidemic and the economic crisis. I live in this situation, the city of Pécs. We know that, in recent years, the city has been practically on the verge of bankruptcy, the state of economic collapse. This has a local political context and also links to national regulations. We know that for ten years, our city had pro-government leadership, and this situation changed in October. In such a situation, Pécs received the austerity measures of the government. A long way before the epidemic, the measure that virtually abolished the state aid for local public transport, a state supplement to it, which in itself is a huge cut in blood not only for my city, Pécs, but also for any city that needs to maintain one of the most important public services. And even in the epidemiological situation, the much-controversial austerity affecting municipalities has particularly affected the city of Pécs, which is very difficult to maintain the fiscal balance anyway, even without such austerity measures. Specifically, from the city of Pécs, this government measure took 480 million forints. This makes it seriously difficult not only for the city to manage, but also for its defence against the epidemic. This was a huge irresponsible thing on the part of the government. Similarly, there is a very serious and far-reaching problem, but already in the present, that there has been no delay for water utility companies in paying the utility tax and no support for basic maintenance and replacement work. I will give you a number that is shocking, and in the case of Pécs, in the 15-year perspective, in addition to the current resources, it would be necessary to create 20 billion forints from somewhere in order to achieve the most important public service, the supply of drinking water and the drainage of waste water. The debate between the city administration in Pécs and the government on the maintenance of great cultural institutions in Pécs has become quite shocking. We know that two years ago the city of Pécs concluded a ten-year agreement, then the Fidesz city administration with the government that the government is taking a significant part in maintaining the cultural institutions of Pécs. At the beginning of this year, however, we saw that the next technical contract was not being concluded by the government, that the funds had not arrived, and that there was, in fact, a threat to the pay of workers. Fortunately, this has been resolved, so a bridging solution has been found, but the long-term solution has not yet been reached. We also see that this was a specific intention by Péter Hoppál, a Fidesz MEP in Pécs, to nationalise a very, very important cultural institution in Pécs. We find that unacceptable. There has now been another threat, and we can see that the government is now trying not only to impose restrictions on local governments in the epidemiological situation, but also on universities. [[23.00]] They wish to withdraw from several universities in a billion-dollar scale, which is essential to the maintenance, and according to the news, they want to withdraw more than HUF 3.5 billion from the University of Pécs. I can tell you that this is practically the University of Pécs, which is not going to be able to manage in the city, and I'm pretty sure it won't be able to operate in this form, so it's going to be such a big, significant country university and huge layoffs. This is a huge cut not only in the self-esteem of the university, but also in the city. We know that the university is the largest, by far the largest employer in the city, and that the presence of university students and the university are essential players in the urban economy, cultural life and innovation. This has extremely serious and unpredictable consequences. My fellow Members talk a lot about the importance of cooperation in such a difficult situation. My fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, and I will make a proposal to Members of Parliament who are pro-government and opposition, in Pécs, who live in Pécs and who are linked to Pécs, and we will call on them and ask them to come to the government with a joint declaration for the sake of the city of Pécs and the people of Pécs, putting aside all kinds of party policies, in order not to punish the people of Pécs and not the city of Pécs with austerity measures. I very much hope that all the pro-government and opposition representatives in Pécs will join this joint declaration and that we can jointly enforce the interests of Pécs and the people who live there towards the government. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-05-234	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ádám Steinmetz spoke after the next agenda with the title "Hungarian Sport Day." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-05-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 6th of May is the day of Hungarian sports, our common holiday. That's why I'm not gonna talk about football in Kisvárda, so I'm gonna stick to sports. The first outdoor sports competition in Europe was held in Budapest on this day in 1875. Thank you to the National Assembly for adopting in full agreement in 2017 the five-party proposal that declared 6 May the day of Hungarian sport. Hungarian sports skiers increase our country's visibility and make our nation proud. With 177 Olympic gold medals, 151 silver coins and 174 bronze coins, our country stands in the world rankings in a very prestigious position, which is a huge achievement for a relatively small nation. Thanks to all Hungarian athletes and sports professionals. I'm an athlete myself, and I'm going to remain an athlete while I'm alive, and as an Olympic champion, I may be surprised what I'm going to say, but playing sports and doing sports are two different professions, and I'm sad to see that over the past ten years, the leaders of this country have not thought so. Today, in Hungary, we can hardly find a sports association, a long-standing sports club, where the president or the secretary-general would not be attached to the current power. The practice of Fidesz politicizing sport is unacceptable and unacceptable, even in the area of life where only performance matters, not loyalty to the party. I therefore propose that MPs, mayors and members of government should not be members of sports associations and the decision-making body of sports clubs. If you want to help, help me, but don't be involved in professional decisions. Keep your hands off the sport, let the people who know how to do it do it. I am also stunned by the fact that at a domestic world competition I see the advertising sign with the support of the Government of Hungary. Well, I might as well put every taxpayer's name and picture on these Molinos, because it's our money! Well, that's not fair. We have to stop political campaigning in sports competitions! An important goal is to become a sports-loving nation into an athletic nation. It is true that more people play sports in our country than they did before, but unfortunately, for the reasons mentioned above, more and more people are condemning sport, and we are also the obese champions of Europe. However, the introduction of everyday physical education was a good and useful decision, but it has to be established in every school. After Fidesz nationalized public education, it's the government's job, but they're building stadiums instead of gymnasiums. And what has Fidesz been doing in sports for the last ten years? Tao, stadium reconstruction program, Hungarian organized world competitions may be the areas with which they are most often boasted and for which more and more people abuse them. Dear fellow citizens, You may be surprised, I am positive and supportive in all three areas. Yes, I think that tao is a good idea, it would be useful for Hungarian sports if, according to the original plan, local entrepreneurs supported local sports in a way that is worth it to them. But the reality is that the Tao has become a synonym for robbery. Since they don't publish the data illegally, we can't find out how much money went to the Tao title for a good purpose, and how much money went to sports mail for useless. I support the renovation and construction of sustainable sports facilities, but only with transparent, transparent funding. Let's build, but let's play it clean, and let's do it at home. Finish foreign investments where Hungarians do not live! And in the matter of world competitions, you might want to ask people what they think, so maybe we could have an Olympics. Finally, on the occasion of the Hungarian Sports Day, a request. Respect the law of sport. Let there be a well-defined playing field and the rules apply equally to everyone. Long live the Hungarian sport! Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-05-236	Thank you, Congressman. Member Andrea Varga-Damm came forward to speak after the next agenda: for 185 years trains have been running in public traffic in Europe, and we do not exploit the potential of this. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-05-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, a memorial after today's agenda, but this commemoration is also somewhat self-serving, because I would like to draw the attention of the legislator and the government to the disadvantages that the railway suffers in Hungary. For 185 years, there has been a public train running in Europe on the continent. On 5 May 1835, this locomotive was launched between Brussels and Mechelen. In 1825 the history of the public steam train began, and the steam locomotive was completed by 1804. George Stephenson built 17 types of experimental locomotives, and in 1825 the Locomotion debuted with 1, which opened the world's first public steam train between Stockton and Darlington, and by 1835 he developed the Rocket locomotive, which became his success, and this locomotive led the railway that was launched today 185 years ago. CHAPTER XX By the century, road traffic and aviation have already taken over a large part and a large part of both passenger transport and freight transport, but as we can see, the harms of emissions and the predictability of rail could trigger a new Renaissance in the history of the railway. What we see today is that the development of the railway in Hungary is significantly lagging behind, although very many people are not likely to be the first to know after the establishment and launch of the Brussels-Mechelen railway. In 1836 XXV. Hungary has already created the first railway law. Such an advanced Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy were the 19th. In the century. Developed European countries are trying to create a new Renaissance of the railway by increasing rail speed, increasing comfort levels and favouring road-rail combined transport. Compared to this, a multitude of railway lines have been removed in Hungary, many railway tracks have been taken up, and the Irish core has been wiped out so that the railway can run there again. Leave the road lobby, which causes a great deal of damage to Hungary, primarily through the emission of pollutants, and, secondly, by the terrible amount of trucks in the road network, which have a very serious safety factor. [[23.10]] Pan-European Corridors should be created, i.e. they should be developed, and the aim would be to allow as many people and companies as possible in both passenger and freight transport to use the railway for transport. In Hungary, the development of small railway between Hungarian municipalities should be carried out, and Switzerland should be followed in the carriage of goods, which does not allow transit trucks through the roads, but is required to transport them by rail. I think that on such a day, when we can remember such a fantastic development, which is the XIX. In the first half of the 20th century, Hungarian politicians also have to examine themselves in Hungary, what we have done for the opportunity that lies in the railway, both passenger and freight transport, and we have made sure that this treasure, this opportunity, cannot be destroyed, that it cannot be eliminated for the benefit of aviation and road transport. I think it is important that we always, always, as a reminder, or as a contribution to a bill, promote the development of the railway, because, as the coronal virus epidemic has shown, as road traffic and flight have decreased to this extent due to shutdowns, how clean the air has become, how healthier the environment has become, how active the animals have become, which is quite fantastic, because they have not been disturbed by all this technical equipment, and how we have been in this period of wisdom that the rail road should be developed. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2020-05-05-238	Thank you, Congresswoman. To speak after the last agenda, Mr Bence Tordai came forward with a title on his war on women. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-05-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Fidesz's war on women hasn't just begun, but he's on a level. Fidesz has always been an exclusional men's club, perhaps not founded in Bibo College, but in the men's locker room of a football field. The source of Fidesz's anti-female policy, the head of the well is Viktor Orbán himself, as the fish reeks of his head. We know exactly what Viktor Orbán thinks about women, and we know that he thinks they belong in the kitchen, but certainly not in politics. In fact, he never lets them into his governments, and briefly said that some of them might be able to solve the ministry's task, but he doesn't wonder why they don't come to the task because they can't stand the wrinkle. It is so revealing that even László was more on the election list of the 2018 Fidesz than a woman, two thirds more! This may be due to László Fat's lobbying power. He's the other source of this fidesz anti-female thing. He is the one who said already in 2015 that we would like our daughters to consider the highest quality of self-realization if they could give birth to grandchildren. Then he continued his five years of well-founded amok running when he said that I felt sorry for these Members, especially those whose personal numbers begin with 2. Then he went on at the House Committee's meeting:. And in moral and mental terms, a woman who does not meet the female principle cannot be qualified as a woman. This is the misogynistic way of talking, this is the amok run, this is the war against women that has now reached the stage of Mother's Day in Fidesz. In the face of European values and their own commitment and stand six years ago, they curse the European Council Convention on the Prevention and Effective Treatment of Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention, all at a time when the rate of violence against women, domestic violence, during the curfew of the epidemic, is roughly rising. They do this when we are supposed to be in the year of victim support, as the Minister said. But completely incapable of migranting or gendering can't cover up the fact that this is actually a net anti-female situation. And we can see the consequences of this, we can see the impression of this, we can hear the sentences of the fidesz speakers; for example, István Varga, who said, "If everyone has had their own two, three or four children, then they can become self-realized and emancipated, and then there would be no domestic violence. Or when the Fidesz Secretary of State tells a fellow Member, a lady, that you're beautiful, it doesn't mean you're smart. From the congressman Fideszes, we heard the words "Videos," Ági! This is also an invitation here in Parliament. Or Fidesz also makes the point that, the woman is not a human, 2015, she's obnoxious. And Laszlo Tasó, who could tell Szabó Timea what you were talking about, mother. We can see that this attitude leads not only to verbal violence but also to physical violence at times. József Balogh, the blind comandorist József Balogh, beat his wife at a level that broke several cheekbones and needed hospital treatment. He was convicted of that. It's Fidesz culture about women. There is a cause and effect at the same time the inequality in public power, as Hungary is shamelessly down, in the world ranking 148 in terms of women's parliamentary positions. In terms of wage differences, a woman today earns 68,000 forints less than a man. The greatest risk of poverty is for women and mothers raising their children alone in Hungary today. They're banning the university's studies on gender inequality. The fact that Fidesz is pursuing an anti-female policy leads to the fact that Viktor Orbán and László Kövér despises and despises women. It's hard to see their politics, we see the consequences, we see the state of the country. It's a very unwoman-friendly country. And on top of that, in Fidesz, they look so down on women that they think they won't even notice that, they won't see the anti-female nature of Fidesz politics. I have bad news for the Fidesz colleagues: more and more of the Hungarian women see through the sieve, they know the true nature of Fidesz, the anti-female, exclusional, macho politics behind the smearful words. And when a crowd of Hungarian women say that it was enough, the power of Fidesz will end. We're looking forward to it. [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Dr. Adam Steinmetz applaud.]]
u2020-05-05-240	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
