u2020-11-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, In 1825 István Széchenyi offered his one-year income to the founding of the Hungarian Society of Sciences, the name of which was changed to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1840. The National Assembly's Day of Offering is the 2003 XCIII. made it a celebration of Hungarian science by law. On the occasion of the celebration, the Hungarian scientific institutions, led by the Academy of Sciences, have been organizing programs throughout the month, which serve scientific knowledge and the promotion of science. The motto of the 2020 holiday is. The future-forming science. I would like to highlight two of the goals of this year's series of events. One is to draw attention to the importance of enabling society to adapt to the rapid and continuous development of science. The other is the promotion of competitive knowledge based on the mother tongue, which is one of the cornerstones of our national cohesion. These two objectives are the 21st. It points to one of the biggest challenges of the century. Dear House, Scientific-technical revolutions leave a deep impression on the functioning and structure of society. In the last decade, for example, smart devices or the Internet have brought radical changes in our daily lives, how we interact with each other. And such and similar changes had to be integrated into the framework of interpretation that would help us determine our place in the world. The technological revolutions of the future can only be really put to our advantage if we can provide the collective responses to their social impact. These responses must simultaneously ensure the exploitation of the welfare surplus of scientific development and the preservation of the universal human and national values that make us human and Hungarian. In addition to the increasingly amazing scientific achievements, which are more and more understandable to experts in one area, it is necessary to have accessible interpretations of the role of man and the full enjoyment of human existence. Social sciences have an important role to play here, which can help not only to establish an appropriate interpretation framework, but also to adapt them to the values of individual local and national communities. In addition, wide dissemination of scientific knowledge is a priority, including the presentation of the scientific methodology. Ladies and gentlemen, The technological revolutions ahead of us can improve our lives to an unprecedented extent, but it will take serious spiritual work and economic and social cooperation to ensure that they are carried out while maintaining social stability and our most important values. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Allow me to remember a colleague, our friend, who died yesterday. The 28-year-old young man who was taken away by the Crown Virus was Lajos Balogh. Many of you knew him, perhaps, and all of you who knew him well loved him, for he really helped not himself but those of our fellow citizens, the neighbors who were in worse situations than he was. He was not only a politician, he was not only a movementist, he was also a folk musician, he made great works in many areas, and that is why it is particularly painful that his career was interrupted so quickly. I'm asking you to remember it briefly, with a silent drive. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. But we don't just mourn him, because the number of victims of the corona virus is already at 70 a day. More people died in Hungary last week because of the corona virus than in the spring during the whole first wave. And these people shouldn't have all died. We would have to face far fewer deaths now if the government had taken its task seriously, if the words the Prime Minister had said were true about the use of the summer period and were prepared. Unfortunately, we have to see that the virus was released at the beginning of September, the first week of September would be the last time we were able to perform tests at the right rate. And I understand that they don't want to stop the country from operating, I understand that they're afraid for the economy, they're afraid for jobs, but understand that testing, contact research, compliance with quarantine regulations doesn't really cost money, it's not a financial issue, and it doesn't stop the country. But that should have been kept in mind and taken into account not now, but two months ago. And in the same way, if, say, there weren't tens of thousands of sporting events in Europe virtually uniquely, then again, we would not have to face such high cases and so many deaths. There is still space, there is still the possibility to treat the epidemic without complete closure of the country, but still to protect the citizens of Hungary, because it is not a defence to push the responsibility over them, it is not a defence to say that they should wear masks, and then everything will be fine. Viktor Orbán said a few weeks ago that anyone who gets sick will be cured. More than a thousand people have died since then. Let's not make such irresponsible statements. And let us not make such irresponsible statements as the Prime Minister said this Friday that there is chaos and confusion in Western Europe, but the situation in Hungary is still divine! No, the situation is ungodlyly bad with regard to disease control, because the third highest mortality rate in recent numbers is in Hungary per million. So let's stop magicing with numbers, stop denying reality, and quickly get off Donald Trump's path, because we can see where it leads when the leader of a country practically denies reality and tries to paint an alternative, reassuring reality in his own media. This road leads to tragedy, and I know that your other lives are not always so important, I see, but at least take into account your own political interests. [[9.10]] If you look at where Donald Trump's road leads with this disease management, it will lead to political failure. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the fidesz benches, please be so kind, at least consider your own political fate, since you can no longer consider the citizens of Hungary! The denial of reality and the procrastination of substantive measures lead to tragedy, not only in terms of health, economic and human fates, but also in political terms. As the U.S. President will fail, you will fail if you don't reset the relays immediately and you don't start a responsible crisis management. That's what we're asking you to do, that's what it seemed like you weren't open to yesterday, but last night, according to some government officials' statements, it might seem like there's been a change. Please make a change. Begin a meaningful, responsible crisis management. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-03-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to express our sympathy for the death of your colleague, our fellow Member. In this matter, I think that there is no room for party politics, we share the family's pain. As regards the fight against the epidemic, we talked about yesterday, perhaps you were here, that this epidemic is not only affecting Hungary, but it is raging all over Europe and all over the world, and you therefore had to take a number of measures about it. So the government has constantly extended masking, compulsory masking, the rules have been tightened up last week, and from this week onwards, more stringent action can be taken against those who do not comply with these rules. Also, thanks to the majority, the vast majority of Hungarians who have kept these rules continuously since the spring months. We've also tightened the quarantine regulations, the detention of the quarantine has increased. We made the flu vaccine free; the government ordered twice as much as last year, and ordered more if necessary. We have made it official priced, so we have reduced the price of the tests, otherwise more than a million tests have already been carried out in Hungary. Nor is the question of schools: we have managed to avoid the introduction of digital distance education everywhere, but in order to keep it that way, we must also keep the distance rules and, among other things, temperature control. What I regret is that you, when you had to vote here in this House, did not support these steps at all. They didn't vote for an accelerated trial of the Crown Virus bill, and they didn't vote for the law itself at the time of the first wave. Instead, false news was created, including the fact that this House does not even meet. Contrary to the European Parliament, because it can no longer be called a meeting, this House has been sitting all along. There was no vote last week on the drafts for tightening up. Instead, they had proposals, such as the restoration of the shopping time band, the restoration of distance education and the restriction of public transport: therefore, not the expansion of services, but the restriction of public transport. There is only one thing we would like to ask, or one thing we would like to ask: did you consult with the stakeholders first? As far as economic aspects are concerned, your policy is explained by the fact that Gergely Christmas, while sitting on more than a hundred billion-dollar, growing wealth in the City Council, does not spend any money at all on the merits of the fight against the epidemic. Everyone spends, the government also spends, most of the municipalities spend Christmas Gergely refuses to do so. So we're gonna ask you why you're doing this from here. We think you should get in the defense. I'd like to respond to one more thing. The city of Vienna was shaken by a terrorist attack in the evening. Terror, therefore, reached Hungary's borders 70 kilometers away. Several reports, several reports there, said that something had happened that they didn't think would ever happen there. We would like to express our sympathy to the families of the victims and to the people of Austria, Hungary as an ally in the fight against terror. I believe that this is not the time to talk about Hungary's awareness of the dangers of immigration years ago. But one thing, honourable Member, we must point out that we cannot pass by without saying a word. You have constantly insulted those who consider it a risk that crowds arrive in Europe. I quote you, you have been told that, in the swamps of true ignorance and uberrostrosity, these are your words. You personally called the case a minor issue a few days ago, feel free to look back at ATV, and you spoke about migrants that did not exist before. If they don't exist, then who attacked in the last few days? But if it were just insults and denial of reality because of actions! You attacked the construction of the border seal, supported the compulsory resettlement, but at the same time the referendum was called a sham campaign, but you did not vote for the constitutional amendment to prevent resettlement. But that's not all, because they also wanted to open the out-of-use barracks to the masses. The fact is that you are not alone in this policy, a lot of other liberal parties represented similar ones in Europe if we look at the attacks of the last few days, then we have the result. So if you rest a little between two hate tsunamis in the direction of the government, if you listen a little bit, you hear an increasingly powerful knock: it's reality. Wake up! It's not too late to change their politics. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-4	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What is more important? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start by expressing our condolences to the families of the victims of the tragic, vile terrorist attack in Austria and wishing the wounded a rapid recovery. It is quite clear that terrorism must be dealt with as rigorously and as hard as possible by all means. Dear House, I hope that there is no debate over the fact that we must do everything we can to protect our children's safety and to protect them from the crimes committed to their harm. Perhaps the most serious of these are pedophile and pornographic crimes. Instead of laying down the strictest rules in these cases, policy would consistently act with the greatest rigour of the law, and with the power of the public, it would strike down the paedophile criminals who committed these crimes, unfortunately, on the part of the government, the only answer is secrecy and silence, and I must say that for the many times, because Péter Szijjártó himself is also a foreign minister and a foreign minister who keeps secrets about the former Peruvian Ambassador of Pedophile Gábor Kaleta. Before the government relieves itself of responsibility in the case of Kaleta, I would like to draw attention to a few facts and unanswered questions, and I just hope that now the government understands that it should have acted in a completely different way and not make these mistakes again. The case was investigated by foreign agencies. Where were the Hungarian authorities? The Hungarian secret services failed to detect the 19 thousand paedophiles purchased by Kaleta and stored on its official laptop. Just as the weakness of the secret services' work is indicated by the fact that a pedophile has been able to perform important and confidential state jobs for all these years. Kaleta was secretly brought home by the Hungarian authorities and the whole case was brought to the public by investigative work of journalists. The scandalous case was tried by the government at a closed parliamentary committee meeting to hide the details from the public for ten years. Since then, the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade has not praised my letter regarding the publication of the minutes of the meeting. Neither then nor since then have the representatives of the government been willing to answer any of the questions in this case. The D.A.'s office made an indictment that could guarantee that Kaleta would receive the mildest punishment. The D.A.'s office didn't appeal for an aggravation of the verdict. Fidesz and the government have tried to relieve themselves of responsibility in the face of social outrage, while unfortunately they still refuse to answer why the Hungarian state has not acted rigorously and consistently against the pedophile criminal. Government agencies refuse to answer that, to this day, the former Peruvian ambassador still has a valid and risk-free national security expertise, i.e. he has access to state secrets. [[9.20]] As a result of the shortcomings in the legal background in Hungary and the prosecution's indictment, Kaleta was not banned from public affairs or from working and working with children. This is outrageous! The situation is unacceptable, and it is only aggravated by the fact that the ex-Peru ambassador had to pay a fine of HUF 500,000 in total for the possession of 19 thousand pornographic recordings. Five hundred thousand forints, fellow Members. In Hungary, in the same year, it is possible that for free expression, because a bag of potatoes were to be handed over to the Prime Minister, a penalty of HUF 4.4 million will be collected from the leader of Jobbik's faction. Do you think free expression will be nine times more serious than a pedophile crime? Fellow Members! The Kaleta case has shown that the situation is untenable. In the current legal uncertainty, children in pornographic recordings are not considered as victims, so although it is not impossible to ban pedophile criminals from working in public affairs and children is difficult to achieve in practice. In order to change this outrageously unfair situation, we are submitting to Parliament a legislative amendment that states that children are always considered as victims, thus guaranteeing victims' protection at all times and that criminals should not be able to get away with fines, and that they should be permanently prohibited from both children's jobs and public affairs. Do you support this effort? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor. [[Dr. László Varga will take his place in the notary seat.]]
u2020-11-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I believe that the current government has nothing to hide in the area of criminal law, nothing to be ashamed of. We were the ones who, after the government took over in 2010, constantly tightened the criminal code from 2013. At the same time, it is a very double position that the opposition stands for in these cases, because at every tightening up, perhaps, except for Jobbik, they have raised their voice against punishing the perpetrators more severely. There have been all kinds of procedural obstacles in the use of, for example, covert means to detect this type of crime. At the same time, you say that there is a dictatorship and a police state here, and in all cases where the state wants to acquire means to find out about these matters as easily as possible, you do not support them. It is precisely this Parliament that has adopted the new law on criminal proceedings, which has established a solid basis for the use of concealed assets on the basis of judicial authorisation, so in the future the courts should always consider as evidence the means, the documents that will be collected. I do not want to get involved in procedural matters, but it is clear in the case you mentioned that the evidence that was available did not comply with the requirements of the Hungarian Criminal Procedure Act, so they were limited to use, and the prosecution had to adapt its indictment proposal to this, which was then translated into punishment. So when we talk about what Hungarian criminal law is and what action is taken against crime and pedophile crime, let us not ignore the legal environment that you are constantly preventing from tightening up. But to give some examples: it was this government that made the year 2017 CXLIX amending the laws necessary to better protect children. has introduced a law to prohibit, with immediate effect, all persons from carrying out a child's supervision, from exercising a child's occupation, and they cannot be placed in such a position in the future. It has also tightened the statute of limitations under which the limitation period for such offences begins after age. As regards sexual crimes committed in children under 12 years of age, it has been strengthened by Article 197. The facts of sexual violence within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Hungarian legislation on child pornography, which has been in force since July 2013, is also more stringent than the previous one, which basically punishes these crimes even more closely than EU requirements. The second vile suggestion, which you are constantly making, is that an expert on the foreign field, who continued his career under the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, and who was even on foreign duty in America, wants to wash it against him as if he were a Fidesz criminal. Allow me, but if all the people working in the ministry were to be partyed, we should have fired everyone in 2010 and basically started working with a whole new set. I do not know what they would have said about these steps, they would have said that these are democratic relations, and this is how it should be done in all cases. So we're looking at these cases. And then I don't want to refer to the speech made yesterday by your fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, who, after committing a defamation for seeking retribution by an ex-Mayor, climbs up the pulpit and subverts his immunity to repeat the crime of defamation in a mean manner, accusing him of a proper procedure, as if he had been hiding anything. We're gonna need this for ourselves. Moreover, Christian churches are being attacked and dishonored, which is totally unacceptable. Go back to your professional level. We are open to any proposal to prevent pedophilia and punish those who commit such crimes. And stop the political hysteria. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, DK Group also applied for a pre-meeting speech: the Orbán government already recognises that there is a crisis, but they do nothing for people, with the title "Entrepreneurship." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-9	Thank you very much. Before I begin my speech before the agenda, we were all shocked by yesterday's event and several events. Allow me to remember Lajos Balogh, who joined the Democratic Coalition as a young Roma civil rights activist, and we saw in him the future who can work as a representative in Józsefváros. By leaving, we have all lost a lot, and thank you all, if you agree on this matter, we will indeed be able to leave a better country to him. Dear Parliament, Few people noticed the important moment at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets when Minister for Finance Mihály Varga said the word, acknowledging that there was a crisis. According to the Democratic Coalition, the Orbán government created the depth of the crisis and the graves of family farming by failing to prepare in 2018-19, in recent years. You knew what was coming, as wolves had been called in the summer of 2019, but they didn't take themselves seriously, and at the end of the year, they applauded the surplus income and the remains. Of course, we are aware of all the problems caused by the virus epidemic, but in Hungary the economic inaction of the Hungarian government further deepens the economic crisis. In the spring, measures should have been taken that could have helped families, small businesses, but the government didn't, and leaving 600,000 self-employed people alone told them to get along as well as you could. The workers are on leave, most of the families and pensioners are out of resources, and you're still doing nothing. The summer was coming, everyone was talking about the upcoming, even more serious second wave of viruses, and you still did nothing, even though it would have been time, but the yacht office didn't show any misery. Every normal-thinking government has provided immediate financial support to businesses and thus an opportunity for people to exist. You have decided, on the other hand, to turn our money into a development loan to friendly companies and to solve the problem of working and working. They solved it, they sent them, the wage worker, the pensioner, the pension worker, the student worker, and then, without income, a significant proportion of the workers. [[9.30]] In order to cover all this up, you're going to list every number, there's been another lied media campaign for billions of dollars, but in fact, only a few percent of GDP has been moved, and this rescue has been given to the friends, because there will be a hotel for Lőrinc Mészáros on every lake. There is nothing left in this country for the people, the workers who live on wages and salaries. A credit moratorium? Hundreds of thousands of people today think that as long as they do not have to pay a repayment, they will not have to pay it later. The repayment obligation has been temporarily suspended, the maturity has been pushed out, while the amount to be recovered increases. The Hungarian economy is in bad condition, falling towards 8-10 percent revenue loss. There is no negative economic data today that is not owned by the Orbán government. Lowest rate of HUF? Orbán government. The most expensive gas price? Orbán government. Euro record inflation? Orbán government. Biggest budget deficit? Orbán government. Is the government debt expected to be weakest forints? Orbán government. After György Matolcsy, do you really think that this is the methodology for beating crisis management in Europe? While the President of the Central Bank reported at yesterday's Economic Committee meeting that the Hungarian National Bank had an exchange rate gain of HUF 300 000 million. It's public money, not just public money, but it's used for the good of the people they've abandoned. But if this amount would help 300,000 people with 1 million forints, but if it is reduced, they can help hundreds of thousands of families. Help the people, please. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-10	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-03-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to express my condolences and condolences to the family, friends and political community of Mr Lajos Balogh. We want to express our loss and compassion. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to respond to what you have said, as you have given the idea of the Gyurcsány Party with great vehemence and dramaticity, and have done so as if you had not otherwise been involved in the harmful left-wing activity that has put our country on the edge of the plague, which has shown you what you think of left-wing crisis management. Your work or your activities shouldn't be called work, and then Hungary moaned for a decade. Honourable Congressman, You cannot go without saying that during your boss Ferenc Gyurcsány's administration, hundreds of thousands of people were on welfare in Hungary, jobs have ceased instead of job creation, and those who have worked have been constantly, as much as they could, taxed; pensions have been lifted, wages have been taken away, the period of retirement has been reduced, this crisis management has increased, which you are crying back and forth, day after day, and they want to set an example for us. We don't want any of this, we don't want any of this messed-up crisis management. We think that instead we need people's support and help. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that this is what the Hungarian government has done, and it is doing so; there is a long list of economic measures that have been formulated in the framework of the economic protection action plan. These measures, honourable Member, focus on protecting jobs and creating new jobs against left-wing policy. And, honourable Member, it is apparent that this is the result, because in September, the unemployment rate in the euro area was 8.3 percent with seasonal adjustment, which exceeded 7.5 percent in September last year, and in Hungary there is much lower unemployment, thanks to God and the activities of Hungarian people. We see that Hungary is one of the countries with the lowest unemployment rates for both the world and Europe; our value in August was the third lowest in the 28 Member States. Honourable Congressman, The fact is that despite attacking government measures, we can see that they have been able to provide real help. The suspension of the obligation to pay capital and interest on loans, which you have referred to, is a damage, providing thousands of billion forints of assistance to those who are now in a difficult situation, whether they are individuals or even businesses; moreover, according to the government's decision, this moratorium will be extended from 1 January 2021 to another six months for those who are particularly interested in the assistance that the government can provide in this way. If we go further, there was a tax reduction, there was a reduction in contributions, there were various debts, there were discounts on contributions, and indeed there were investment development, competitiveness-enhancing subsidies in the form of wage subsidies to protect jobs, or even in the form of wage subsidies, to create and provide new jobs in these days. Honourable Congressman, These grants have reached millions of people, provide real help to them, and many, many companies. And, honourable Member, let us not forget that you were the leader of the BIT, and by now you have reached the point of trying to help yourselves from bitcoin. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech. How many more people have to die? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-03-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. István Balogh, Lajos, was 28 years old. On October 20, he posted the following sentences on his social media site:. Thank you for calling me all day today, but I'm not very good at making phone calls. Write to me. The programs are good... just..., a little laughing smiley, Yes, there is a Covid. That was his last entry. Make the land easy for him. We're not safe. And do you know why I'm saying this? Because the virus doesn't choose. Whether she's young, whether she's a woman, old, male, religious, non-religious, she's caught up with everyone, we've seen her lately, and compared to that, we're shocked to see how the government communicates. Today Gergely Gulyás said that the Hungarian mortality rate is not as bad as the European average. This morning's recent data: 3989 infected patients have never been this many, and 84 patients have died. You know, one man's death is a lot, let alone 84 or 60 people a day! In the last 17 days, 348 patients have died in Hungary. But yesterday I asked a question about vaccinations in the hour of immediate questioning, since Viktor Orbán said that we ourselves encourage people to inject themselves against the flu, and we even made it free, so we doubled our supplies, so we have twice as much flu vaccination as we do in peacetime, which means enough material to inoculate about 1 million 400 thousand people. I would like to point out that, if you look at the statistics, you have always provided 1 million 300 thousand vaccines in the government's flu season for many years, and even another fact I call to the attention of the government: that if they had worked in the summer and didn't do adriad and yachting, they would have been able to prepare for the current period. They were right to say, "Let's get everyone vaccinated." [[9.40]] And then I'd tell you a fact when the government is preparing for what it's doing. In April 2009, a new type of influenza appeared in the world. Many died, but then the socialist government prepared that if the vaccine could be manufactured, people could be vaccinated. I read the letter from the ÁNTSZ then made in April: 1 million 300 thousand vaccines are provided to persons in the risk group over three years of age, and for children under three years of age, this 1 million 300 thousand 10,000 doses of vaccine are available free of charge. Now pay attention to what the government has done about the new type of flu: 6 million vaccines are available to prevent pandemic influenza, of which 4 million can be used free of charge. Over 3 million people vaccinated themselves with free vaccines in Hungary that year. You know, if someone's working and the government is doing their job, you're not lying in mathematics, Mr. Secretary, that 1 million 300 is double the 1 million 300, but they're actually preparing for people to get their vaccination, but that's not what you did. We're not safe. Do you know why? Because you lie all the time. Orbán said on 16 September: I also assure everyone that today we can increase the 10,000 hospital beds by two or three times, and they can send doctors and nurses to the right place according to a management plan. Everyone can rest assured, if someone catches this disease, we will cure it, emphasized by the Prime Minister. You know, that's not something a sane person would say when they get sick in a virus like this... when they see the mortality data. We don't say that! We're trying to make sure that whoever goes to the hospital and the doctors still have this overloaded system, the nurses, the nurses and everyone who works in health care, will do everything in their power to get the patients well. Only then will you listen to the numbers, I've prepared some statistics. On the 17th of month X, the number of people who died daily was 24, and today it has risen to 84. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At that time, 185 patients died, now 348. When to stop lying and when to take concrete measures [[The president's ringing again.]] the patients...
u2020-11-03-14	Congresswoman!
u2020-11-03-15	...and to protect the Hungarian people? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-16	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Attila Philip responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-03-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to express my deepest condolences to the family, relatives and thinkers of Lajos Balogh. With regard to the rest of the comment, allow me to point out with respect at the outset that there is the discreet charm of the way the left-wing opposition accuses the government every day of not doing anything and demands that measures should be taken, even though in recent times any measure has been taken by the government, which has not been voted on or supported or lapped by you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Every time the government is attacked not to take action, we are forced to say so many times what measures have been taken in the past. The fact is, when this epidemic came upon us in the spring, you were the ones who did not support the extension of the extraordinary legal order; you were the ones who did not vote for the Crown Virus Act, and in the meantime, you came from the time to spread bad news to the government both nationally and abroad. I think that the inquiry here may be less credible in this regard. And in the health situation, you mentioned numbers, let me mention one thing to you about the real death rate in Hungary, but once again, I would like to say that these numbers are tossing every day... I think it is not certain that it should be done every day for reasons of mercy and humanity. But if you give me a number, then allow me to respond. The fact is that this is a figure on 2 November, so this is yesterday's data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which is the agency of the EU, so from this point of view it is data that the European average is 393 people in the number of deaths per million inhabitants, and in Hungary it is 193 people. So the fact is that what Minister Gulyás has said in terms of data is a test of credibility and reality, more than twice the EU average compared to the Hungarian situation, and let me not list the examples of the other countries in the worst situation here. In health care, all measures to strengthen health care and protect people's lives have been and will continue to happen. Let me just mention a few things to you, which I think is pretty important. Here, with regard to hospitals, a hospital command system was introduced in spring, which is also an innovation from the point of view that appropriate physical and personnel conditions will always be examined. Every time you talk about the progress of the epidemic, you also know because you can see that the list of hospitals required to supply Covid is constantly expanding, and a number of beds will be released that will otherwise serve the safe care of patients. Sampling is carried out today more frequently than before and laboratory capacity is further available accordingly. But let me give you a specific example, because I think that says a lot. On 5 May, the operational tribe decided to ensure the installation of non-invasive ventilators and training for elderly homes above 200 persons. There are 15 institutions in the country over 200 persons; there was only one actor who challenged this measure, Gy. Deputy Mayor Erzsébet Németh, who attacked both the Government and Minister Kásler on this issue. The fact is that 3 out of the 15 institutions did not take over altogether and did not require training or equipment, of which 2 are metropolitan nursing homes. The fact is that there is an attack that has no basis, and otherwise, the operational tribe, the government, provides a condition that can be used, so these sentences are not credible. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-03-18	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech on how can we please pensioners? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, How we can please pensioners, I ask the question, and I will answer it with a little attention; by listening to what they say, what they propose; by listening to their requests and, if possible, implementing them. Over the past few weeks, I've been talking to the head of several retirement clubs in Somogyland, and they'd like to see the ideas that Jobbik has been saying for years. In other words, the 40 and differentiated pension increase for men, which means that, in addition to women, men have the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment, and that pension increases can be made to a higher extent among our fellow countrymen seeking lower pensions. I note quietly that nearly three quarters of Somogy County's pensioners are forced to make a living on a pension below 100 thousand forints. Ladies and gentlemen, It is easy to see that 28 500 HUF minimum pensions and 50-70,000 HUF pensions are not available in Hungary today. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that retirement is not a gift, not a gift. Our young compatriots, especially our parents, grandparents, have been the ones who built this country on bricks. From the strengthening of Hungary, from the roaring of the economy, they also play their part by helping their children, their grandchildren, taking a burden off their shoulders. So what I am saying is that if average wages in Hungary are happily increasing, the standard of living is increasing, then pensioners must also benefit from it. But what do we see? We see that the current inflation-following pension system must be said: unfair. The calculations of the associations of pensioners in Somogy County show that this is a study based on the calculations of KSH that this system is unfair because it is theoretically freezing the standard of living for pensioners in 2010. Technically, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is even worse, as in the case of 1.5 million pensioners who earn HUF 127 thousand in average pensions, we can see that they are poor year after year. [[9.50]] It is also easy to see that average food belonging to the pension basket, namely sugar, bread, dry sausage or fruit, is more expensive than average inflation. Therefore, if the government's aim is to put as much money back into the pockets of pensioners as inflation takes out, then we can achieve that by giving each pensioner the national average pension increase, so pensions can maintain their purchasing value. And then perhaps we can reach it, and it is also a legitimate need that pensioners can sometimes go to restaurants, go to the theater, buy books for themselves, or subscribe to channels where they receive more than just one-sided information. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, I would be very happy to present this study to you after my speech. Please study and consider reforming the pension system. Finally, allow me to bring before this House the request made by Aunt Magdi and Uncle Jani. Uncle Jani asks us, Members of Parliament, to stop making noises, to cut back on the rent, to skip the pension premium, to skip the Elisabeth voucher, to skip the fourteenth month pension promised but not implemented. He's asking for a decent pension for what he's worked for. Aunt Magdi also comes to us with a specific request. His request is that a quarter of the one-time pension, called the 13th month pension, is due at the beginning of next year, so that the holiday table can be a little richer so that they can please their grandchildren with a little gift. I think that this is a small gesture that if we do, we can really bring joy to pensioners. I can therefore support this with a good heart. Mr. Secretary, can you support him? Let's wait for an honorary answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-03-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-03-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You said that many people are asking you to listen to the elderly. We've done nothing but this since 2010. Just yesterday there was an Elderly Council meeting, where we asked and listened to the opinion of the elderly about what measures to take in the coming period. But to your question, which was how we could please the pensioners, let me answer it. In particular, by building and operating a support system that helps families. We have been building a country since 2010 where we help young people learn, support them in starting a family, support them in raising children, support them in getting a home and living in it. We also support them to have a job and to support their families and to provide a safe life for the elderly with respect to their income from their work. Honourable Congressman, You know as well as I do that wasn't always the case. Before 2010, the country was in debt and the families, including the elderly, were put in a difficult position. Before 2010, everything in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era was always remembered by the then government only by austerity. They took a month's wages from public sector employees, took a month's pension, raised the retirement age, as much as you don't like it, raised the price of energy 15 times, triple the price of gas and double the price of electricity, raised the VAT and taxed the family allowance, honourable Member. The fact is that during the period 2006-2010, the real value of pensions decreased by 4 percent, and when there was a change of government, I say the Pension Insurance Fund 357 billion again: we took over with a deficit of HUF 300,57 billion. This meant that when we took over government, it was also difficult to pay a pension. [[Miklós Soltész points towards the opposition benches. Tibor Nunkovics: Stop pointing at me! The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, I've listened to you, too, if possible, so do you. Honourable Congressman, On the other hand, in 2010, we concluded an agreement with the pensioners. It is said that as long as Hungary has a national government, we retain the purchasing value of pensions. Over the past years, we have proved that we are keeping our word, and even from the beginning of next year, we are rebuilding the 13th month's pension, not as a one-off benefit, but regularly, which was taken from them by the left-wing governments. We do this because we know that we owe a great deal to pensioners, to the elderly, to our parents, to our grandparents, because what we have, we got from them what surrounds us, we got it from them, our job is to continue to develop it, and we can appreciate their sacrifice not only in words but also financially. That is why, honourable Member, since 2010, the value of pensions has been guaranteed by law. According to the law, if the January pension increase is lower than the expected annual rate of inflation in September, pensioners should receive the pension supplement in November, January. They will receive this right now, and they will receive the increased pension in the month of November and December. This will preserve the purchasing value of pensions and protect pensioners from the economic impact during the year. I would also like to inform the honourable Member that you have underestimated this, but the pensioners have received more than HUF 220 billion in extra benefits over the past four years. It's a pension premium, it's an Elizabeth voucher, and it's a retirement certificate, by the way. In the framework of the 40, which you have not supported, nearly 280 thousand women have retired after 40 years of employment, and we have also helped pensioners with multiple reductions. But as a better-looking Member, I'm sure you remember that when you talk about pensioners in Parliament with such nice words, what you say when you're not in Parliament. Gábor Vona, your former president, wrote in a post about pensioners, and I quote: "They pulled their little shopping baskets behind them and didn't embellish them, there was hatred in their eyes, and there was sewage in their mouths. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's what your then president said about the elderly. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] By the way, the Vice President of Jobbik and one of his former men said that we called them a butt-back commando, which were mostly retired. Honourable Congressman, Here in Parliament, they say nice words, and when their honest opinion comes out, they can only be ashamed of themselves. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, The pensioners can still count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, KDNP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Fellow Members! First of all, I would like to express my sincere sympathy for the Roma folklore musician Lajos Balogh, who was infected with the Crown Virus at the age of 28, and for me. on the occasion of the shocking death of a district councilman. All of us, especially those with such young children and grandchildren, can experience a deep shock at the evil value and life-destruct effect of the plague. This situation should also warn all of us, in particular the virus denies, that the epidemic can only be defeated by cooperation and consistent compliance with the protection rules. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! There are few people in the world, which in its national memory can preserve not only its successes but also the lessons of its failures and tragedies and build a future from them, drawing strength and an example. As in so many things, we Hungarians are one of the few, as we remember two national mourning days. Today, the day before the Memorial Day of the October 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, we honor the known and unknown heroes who sacrificed their lives in the hope of an independent and democratic rule of law. At that time, in the mid 1950s, in the shadow of great power games and internal betrayal, our country had no chance of doing so. The Soviet tanks crushed the wonderful revolution of October 56. After November 4th, there was a wave of terror never seen. [[10.00]] A multitude of young people were dragged to the Soviet Union, hundreds of them were divided into gallows, more than two hundred thousand people left our country, who became part of emigration, foreign fate, and many could only touch the Hungarian land again in death. On the Advent of 1956 Sándor Márai, remembering the drowning of the revolution, said: "There will always be a new life from blood. The writer so familiar with the history and soul of the Hungarian people saw perfectly that his 56 revolutions, like the sacrifices of the past centuries, would provide a more viable future for the Hungarians in a few decades' time. However, the real question now is that we, to whom this future has been given, have understood the true message of the revolution of 1956, because we still have to ask today whose inheritance we will carry forward: the revolutionaries or the traitors of them? The victims or the executioners? Can politicians who stand up for national independence or are always happy to serve foreign interests be assured by fighting and resignations? Dear House, Although people and instruments change, this unconditional serbilism is unfortunately still present in today's Hungarian politics, and this real Kadár heritage, which, by betraying the revolution, has not only allowed the unconditional service of Soviet imperial interests, but also denied the right to left-wing politics by the execution of Imre Nagy and his martyrs, and by backing István Bibó and his spiritual followers into the background. The weight of their national treasonous decision to this day is a burden from which the Hungarian left can only escape with rare exceptions. Today's internationalist, Brussels practice of abandoning Hungarian national interests and serving international interests uncritically reminds me of the Kádár system's moskovite, conformist policy, which was also unable to accept those thinking differently, primarily the national, don't give, the Christian Democrat. Ladies and gentlemen, The great lesson of the revolution of 1956 is that most of our countrymen were able to join together beyond their political views and to act for the nation, for national independence, and ultimately, if necessary, to sacrifice everything, their future, even their lives. Tomorrow, on 4 November, ladies and gentlemen, let us not only voice grief but also remember heroes with high heads and high hearts. May your sacrifice set an example for all of us in our journey to the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-24	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Vice President, We are indeed coming to a sad day of mourning tomorrow: on the 4th day of November 1956, Soviet troops invading the Hungarian revolution, which shocked the world, the revolution that gave us so many heroes and role models. These heroes, at their own age, became not the honor, but the persecution and the gallows, their personalities, deeds and martyrdom the Hungarian nation forever engraved in its common memory. At that time, in 1956, protected from the barrel of the occupying Soviet tanks, a power was built in Hungary that, throughout its entire existence, was trying to silence the true story of 56: stability, sacrifice, the idea of national independence. In order to achieve its goal, dictatorship is not chosen in the instruments: existential inability, prison and death penalty for the expected heroes of 56. György Lukács wrote in 1918, Bolshevism as a moral problem, that there is a moral problem in the way of social democracy, the attainment of a classless society. According to Luke, the dilemma was that class domination should be achieved by means of violent, oppressive, dictatorial means, or that it should be negotiated temporarily with other parties, and so socialism necessarily takes a longer path of democracy. However, the years after 1945 and the autumn of 56 showed that the existing Bolshevik type of socialism knows neither morality nor dilemma. It soon turned out that there were no two ways: if a person sells marxist, excessively equalizing class domination as an ideology, then there is also the form of its implementation, the violence among the purchased goods. When the Hungarian Communist dictatorship led by Moscow wanted to lie through the truth, this was a quote, and in the words of György Lukács, too, the implementation was given self-serving. This self-serving has been built on purely power logic, military and armed violence, and the building and operation of a dictatorship based on the atomicization of society. This is a dark era of Hungarian history that we have to face in order to give respect to the victims and not to give in to the siren sounds of ideology that we can hear today. In this work, intellectuals must also take the lead, both right-wing and left-wing intellectuals. Albert Camus said that we should never, anywhere, even indirectly justify the killers on the one-year anniversary of the 1956 Revolution in Paris. The lines of Camus, obviously beyond the stand for Hungarianism, are also important because they make it clear that we should not engage in any kind of communion with the executioners of the Hungarians, because all communion would contain a certificate. Camus was on the left, and in the West, the left-wing intellectuals of his time had a special sympathy for the Soviet Union. His essay was needed in order for the Western left-wing intellectuals to deduct the appropriate consistency, that sympathy should not justify the killers. It must be denied, if not their own left-wingness, but the slogans well-sounding in the context of a just society, which are, in fact, violence and repression, initiatives that undermine national independence. Unfortunately, with this distinence, as Mr Vice-President has said, many are still in debt, perhaps even here, within the walls of this House. And a guilty conscience gives birth to further sins: the sinner seeks to conceal his sin by committing another questionable act. There's only one way to break this fatal spiral: honest insight and confession. On Mr. Vice President's question, he was looking for the answer to whose inheritance we should carry on. Of course, the question is also poetic, the answer is clear: the legacy of its heroes is an imperative expression of the direction of Hungarian politics, the protection of national independence and the requirement to enforce national interest; this is the true message of 1956. At the time, social status or political affiliation was not important, the heroes of the revolution were only the cause of the nation. All of us left-wingers and right-wingers share the task of growing up to this heritage in their own way. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The second wave of the coronal virus epidemic is taking place in all countries of Europe, and we continue to defend in Hungary as well. Last time we passed a law here in Parliament, including the rules of masking. This law also came into force, so on Monday a new era of defense began, for example the punishments increased: anyone who breaks the quarantine rules could expect a fine of up to HUF 150,000. The left did not vote for this and would have even reduced the amount of the fine, thereby increasing the risk. Those who do not wear masks may also be severely punished. We're asking the authorities to close down places where they don't follow the rules on a series of occasions. Hungarian health care is doing well, so we can protect everyday life, so we do not have to stop the economy. There is an epidemic alert, so in health care we had to take measures that we didn't take in peacetime. At the same time, we doubled the wages of doctors, and the nurses rose by another 20 percent on November 1. [[10.10]] We trust our experts, who will be under heavy strain for months, even if it is reported that the first few thousand doses of vaccine will arrive in our country in the coming months. Thank you for the sacrifice of health care workers, we are counting on them, and they can count on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. And over and over again, we're the only ones they can count on, because the left goes back to where he left off in the spring. They didn't help Hungary in the spring, and they still didn't. At the time, they did not support the extension of the extraordinary legal order, they did not vote for the Crown Virus Act, they attacked healthcare with chamomuvides, and they even tried to discredit Hungary abroad. They're talking nonsense right now, they're attacking health care right now, and they're suggesting absurd things like banning pensioners from buses and trams. Dear House, We are facing a difficult time, and our lives will continue to be determined by the control of the epidemic. Sadly, however, other, unimaginable, tragic events have ruffled people in Europe. Yesterday there was a coordinated terrorist attack in Vienna. The shooter was a follower of the Islamic State, looking for his associates. Assassins have killed four people, several are in critical condition. There was a brutal, bestial terrorist attack on 29 October in France, where a Muslim terrorist killed three people. The 21-year-old Tunisian perpetrator is an illegal immigrant who arrived in Italy, Lampedusa, on 20 September with a Tunisian ship full of migrants. Again and again, it is proved that illegal immigration and terrorism go hand in hand. If we don't close the borders on migrants, it could cost people lives. Dear House, We can remember that before the construction of the Hungarian border fence, several migrants who later committed terrorist acts went through our country to Western Europe. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's a disgrace to the Secret Service!]] It is now a fact that several members of the terrorist cell that committed the attacks in Paris in November 2015 and in Brussels in March 2016 have stayed in Hungary for a longer or shorter period. This is why it is important that the border fence has been in Hungary for more than five years now. All the more so, because the pressure is increasing: the Balkan migration route remains active; the number of illegal immigrants staying at the Hungarian-Serbian border is significant; last Thursday, they discovered the tunnel crossing the border under the border fence in the outskirts of Ásotthalom, this year it is more than the 20th such tunnel. We also know that this year 320 smugglers were caught against 150 last year and more than 28,000 border offenders were detained this year. Dear House, We see that outside the epidemic, illegal migration and terrorism are raging in Europe. Therefore, the protection of our borders in the epidemiological situation has become more important and vital than ever, since migrants are not only a national security risk but also a strong epidemiological risk. We know that the left has been constantly attacking the fence since 2015 and criticising the strict legal border lock, and the left has not even voted to allow the defence to carry out border protection tasks. It is clear that Hungarians can still rely only on Fidesz and KDNP to protect against migration, not on the left. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, responds. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, regarding yesterday's terrible terrorist attack in Vienna, I would like to say that we express our deep sympathy and deep condolences to the people of Austria (Noise). The president's ringing. The families of the victims, the families of the victims. This terrible terrorist attack, which took place last night in the hours of the evening, approached Hungary's borders 70 kilometers away, several reports said that something had happened that they never thought would happen there. This terrible terrorist attack has multiple deaths. The shooter who got shot by the cops. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He was a sympathizer of the Islamic State, as stated by the Austrian Minister for the Interior and the Chief Constable of Vienna. Many were injured in the attack, many were severely injured, and we wish them a rapid recovery and a rapid recovery. We must say that Europe's security, together with the European way of life, is under attack. We're with our Austrian friends, they can count on us. Europe, the European nations, must defend themselves against the insanity of violence, because otherwise there will be great trouble. The Hungarian authorities, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, immediately offered their cooperation with the Austrian anti-terrorist organisation. This cooperation covers the capture of perpetrators and the implementation of the aspects of the investigation defined by the Austrian authorities. The Austrian-Hungarian border controls have been tightened and the people arriving in Hungary are filtered. The Counter-Terrorism Center is now at the border with several reinforced operations units, with armored vehicles at the border, and will do everything in their power to act effectively. The Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian services continuously monitor the information affecting Hungary's terrorist threat and immediately take the necessary measures to ensure the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. At present, the greatest threat to security can be the lone offenders; they should also be detected by artificial intelligence operated by TIBEK and TEK. At present, the Hungarian authorities are unaware of such a threat. I would also like to say that, in the framework of international cooperation, we are looking at the possible emergence of international terrorist groups in Hungary and their possible activity. Further measures will be taken by the Hungarian authorities in line with the situation. I would like to say here, before the Honourable Parliament, that the Hungarian authorities are cooperating with the Austrian authorities and are doing their best to ensure the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. What you have said, Mr President, about migration, we fully agree, because we have repeatedly drawn attention to the dangers of this, namely the contexts of migration and terrorism. In international fora, in European fora, Hungary has also pointed out that security is the most important element of Community value and security, that borders must be protected, that no one can enter the territory of Europe illegally into the territory of the European Union. This is a fundamental requirement that must be respected in order to be able to act effectively against terrorism. I believe that this is the real problem for Europe and not the state-of-law procedures that have been said, honourable Parliament. As far as illegal migration is concerned, allow me to say a few numbers: 30 450 illegal border crossing attempts were registered at the Hungarian border during the period from 1 January to 1 November 2020, which did not reach 9400 during the same period of the last year, and, during this period, the number of captured smugglers was 341, while last year it was 155. So the number of people who want to enter Hungary illegally has increased more than three times. These were captured, reversed, escorted back by the Hungarian authorities, and they were removed from the territory of Hungary. Human trafficking has been strengthened to such an extent that the Hungarian authorities meet it daily, and not only on the road border, on the railway, but also in the depth of the country, there is a huge amount of illegal smuggling activity against which the Hungarian authorities effectively act. I would like to say and one more sentence about the fight against the coronal virus, which you mentioned, Mr President, is now the key to the success of the fight against the epidemic, and the compliance with the rules on masking. I ask all of you to keep these for our own good, for the sake of our families, for the sake of our loved ones, to wear masks in all the places where the government ordered us to do so. Thus, the use of masks is mandatory in addition to shops and public transport facilities in cinemas, theatres, shopping centres, health and social institutions. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Deal the flu shots to the children. You can't have it!]] , booking offices, open-air events, sporting events and catering and entertainment venues. Thank you so much for listening. Let's work together, it's a national interest [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, hand out the flu shots.]] to keep the Hungarian people safe. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate, I ask the Honourable Parliament to try to reduce the high level of basic noise. Simply Mr. Secretary of State fought heroically [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Let's not exaggerate.]] so you can tell me because there's so much basic noise in the room. Believe me, it's terrible to listen. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Félix Farkas, a representative of Roma ethnicity, for a five-minute period before the agenda. Address for his speech:......Remembering the victims of the Roma series of murders. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2020-11-03-31	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to send my condolences to Lajos Balogh's family from here, the Hungarian Parliament. They suffered a great loss and, of course, a great loss to the gypsy. Farewell, Paci!, the trees shook / dried up their fists in vain, / gray clouds spread over their branches, / the dead couldn't answer / the black lamenters of the crows, / the blood burst out of their dark eye sockets. I quoted it from Károly Bari's poem above the face of the Dead, a poet of Roma origin. That's my mood on this day. This is the atmosphere of all the ruins on November 3rd. It began 12 years ago when racist attacks were launched on our fellow gypsy citizens. Today is a day of mourning for us Roma. We mourn six deaths, we share the grief of six families. We put our wreaths down in nine settlements. On this day, we will remember and remind you of the weight of the Roma murder twelve years ago. It all started on Gallagher. On 21 July 2008, the two houses of the settlement were shot with bullets and shotguns. No one died, but the people there can never forget that night. Then came Piriche, Nyíradony, Tarnabod and Underslide. They tried to kill Roma at each location. Several people were injured in the attacks, but no one died here. Unlike 12 years ago, November 3, 2008, Nagycséchen. Tiborn the Great and Joseph the Great died. They were killed. Their only crime was their Roma origins. It was the first racist, anti-Semitic attack where there were already fatalities, Molotov cocktails burned and guns fired. It wasn't enough for two deaths, a 28 - year - old man and his five - year - old son in Tatárszentgyörgy to die. Robika and her father were killed with a gun, and before that, they set fire to their house. They were gypsies, too. It's a shame and a shame that something like this could happen. And it still wasn't enough! Kóka Jenő died in Tiszalok on 22 April 2009, murdered on his way to work. The death of the child was the ninth stage of the racist murder series. In 2009, on the Memorial Day of the Roma Holocaust, from 2nd to 3rd August, Mária Balogh was killed. I don't know how anyone could possibly be trying to kill someone just because they're Roma. The 45-year-old mother was killed in her sleep, her daughter didn't die, but she was also shot. The unsubs are serving their time, but maybe there were others? There is no punishment to counterbalance the fact that in 2008-2009, in fourteen months, six people lost their lives in nine attacks, and there is no more way to compensate for the fact that in these years the Roma people were terrified that they were also struck by unworthy deaths. We remember the victims of one of the most serious crime scenes in forensics every year on November 3. Let us remember together and remind everyone of the gravity of the crime. Never again can a person's origin be distinguished from his fellowman! In particular, it is not possible for him to die because of this. We all have a common grief that, during the socialist government, in 2008, such tragedies shook our country, and we could not even feel sympathy from them. Just at the time when he marched with the Jobbik Hungarian Guard, scared and scared me. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: Shame on you! Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Be nice. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The perpetrators continued to walk and go for a long time after the events. The Orbán government acted immediately after its formation and ceased the operation of the extremist paramilitary organization, including the Hungarian Guard. At the same time, he also discovered the perpetrators of the murder. I can tell you that today Hungary is committed to racism, anti-Gypsyism, anti-Semitism, all forms of hatred, the current government protects and protects its nationalities, and sees us as values, as well as Gypsies. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you for your attention, and thank you for sharing your grief. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-32	I thank the speaker for his speech. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, responds. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Speaker of the Nationalities, Twelve years ago, under the Gyurcsány government, racist attacks were launched on our fellow gypsy-born citizens. It's the memorial day of the Roma murders today, November 3. We deeply sympathize with the relatives of the victims, share their grief, and in the attacks six people lost their lives, including a child. We must not forget that Hungary was in a position at the time that it could not protect its own citizens. This meant that in fact, with regard to origin, many had to suffer acts, crimes that were as serious as possible, which took their lives. Since then, the court has ruled on these terrible crimes. On 12 January 2016, the Curia, acting at the third instance, approved the decision taken earlier, leaving three perpetrators with actual life sentences, thus gaining legal force, the fourth accused was sentenced to 13 years in prison. There is a political, social and moral crisis that the majority of the current government and government have done a great deal to prevent after 2010 so that a situation does not happen again that anyone in Hungary can do so. In order to mitigate the consequences of crimes under left-wing socialist governance, political leadership at the time did not attempt, as the spokesperson said. The first government assistance had to wait until 2010, then Zoltán Balog, former Minister of Human Resources, provided financial assistance to the families of the victims as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. The court did not award any compensation in the case, the Hungarian Government voluntarily undertook to compensate and finance the follow-up and assistance process in this respect. The Government of Hungary paid compensation to 33 families in 11 settlements from 2010. During the attacks, the victims received compensation from the same household and family members. The Ministry of Human Resources has requested a civil society organisation that has had unquestionable domestic and international experience to carry out effective victim support work in the interests of stakeholders. According to this, the White Ring Public Benefit Association, which has been operating for 30 years, has proposed the form and framework of compensation. For years, the association followed the afterlife of the victims, helped with psychological processing, and also helped victims and family members of the victims in practical matters. During the compensation process, the association contacted the victims directly, providing psychological, psychological, legal and financial assistance. The association undertook personal mentoring on the basis of the needs of victims and victims, providing advice on the needs of victims and victims in the use of the compensation amount, in the resolution of debts, in the opening of bank accounts, in the purchase of real estate, in renovations. There will never again be a situation where the state cannot protect its citizens. That is why we must remember what happened at the time, and together, the political community as a whole should be glad that the Hungarian state is in such a state that similar acts cannot be repeated. The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure the safety of its citizens, regardless of nationality, race or religion. We protect everyone, we protect the Roma community, they can count on us in the future. As Mr Spokesman said today, but yesterday, in his speech before the agenda, that, on the proposal of the Government of Hungary, Parliament has passed such strict laws that the sources of crime that has been manifested against the Roma have ceased. [[10.30]] The uniformed crime that we have seen here during the various guard marches, the intimidation of the Roma, has ceased. Hungary is a safe country, Hungary has order and security, and members of the Roma community can also benefit from this. Once again, thank you for speaking up as a minority advocate. We are sympathetic to the family members and relatives of the victims, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that such an act will never happen again in Hungary in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-03-34	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats. As this has been done, before the vote, we will carry out a presence check in order to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check. Present: 155; away: 44.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that our fellow Member Zoltán Bóna's machine does not work, so when publishing the result his vote is always added separately to the result. Dear Parliament, Following up is the 1993 III on social management and social welfare. Act 1 and LXVI of 2019 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 T/13259 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13259. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 157 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[For signal:]] 158 with the vote of Zoltán Bóna. Thank you. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/13105 on the amendment of the laws concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13105/4. T/13105/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13105/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 111 plus 1, i.e. 112 votes in favour, not by vote, with 46 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13105/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 plus 1, i.e. 113 votes in favour, no votes against, with 46 abstentions. Coming up next in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon 44/2006 on Hungarian participation. H/13107 repealing Decision No 13107 Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/13107/5. H/13107/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/13107/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 157 plus 1, i.e. 158 votes in favour, with 1 votes against, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13107/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 157 plus 1, i.e. 158 votes in favour, with 1 vote against, without abstention. Next up is the H/130399 on the day of livestock farmers. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the H/1309. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 158 plus 1, i.e. 159 unanimous votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LV on the protection of the game, game management and hunting. T/13109. Final vote of bill No 1. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the submitted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13109. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 132 plus 1, i.e. 133 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] [[10.40]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. We now have general debates. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the following two fellow Members who are waiting to speak should be present in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws to facilitate the connection of real estate to the public until closure. Government referral T/13478. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-03-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to create a home for families, the Hungarian government has in recent years [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It has sought to facilitate its accession to public works through a number of measures: it has enabled free access to the electricity grid for the installation of a meter with a nominal capacity of up to 32 amperes and up to 4 cubic meters per hour for the natural gas network. In the sector-specific regulation of electricity and natural gas, we have set as short procedural deadlines as possible and, in order to speed up connections to the public electricity grid, it has initiated the inclusion of the so-called "pre-production law', which was previously referred to as "T/13108'. in the Parliament's bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to energy matters. Since 2017, applicants for accession have the possibility to contact the competent authority if the service provider refuses them or imposes unjustified technical conditions on the connection to the electricity, natural gas and drinking water and sewage networks. An important element of the current regulation is that, if the service provider does not accept the accession plans, the applicant for accession may contact the authority in order to establish the adequacy of the plan, and if the service provider refuses to put the completed connection into service, the applicant shall also contact the authority. Dear Parliament, This legislative amendment proposes the use of the following regulatory instruments in order to further facilitate the connection of buildings to public works, in particular by reducing bureaucratic barriers to public construction. On the one hand, the administrative facilitation of the acceptance of accession plans by the service provider, according to which the silence of the service provider should be regarded as consent in the future. On the other hand, to strengthen the liability of its service providers, which is of a very material nature, on the basis of which the service provider is later obliged to reimburse the applicant for the costs of unsubstantiated refusal of access. To this end, the bill before you contains a substantive amendment to the laws on electricity, the supply of gas and the supply of water utilities. Dear Parliament, The proposed amendments to the sectoral provisions on electricity, gas and water utilities complement the current regulation with two additional regulatory elements which significantly ease the situation of those requiring free access. If the service provider does not formally accept the accession plans, they will also become accepted by silence, i.e. by reversing the logic of the current regulation, the consumer should no longer turn to the authority with the need to comply with the plans, but to the service provider, if he does not agree with the manner in which the accession is presented. If, however, the customer implements the connection within four months of the adoption of the accession plans and announces that the service provider refuses to put it into service, it may also be requested from the authority, in addition to the obligation to do so, that the service provider reimburses the certified costs of the customer's connection. Detailed content and procedural rules for enforcement of claims are laid down in a Government Decree. The incentive and sanctioning arrangements contained in the draft are mutually applicable to both the service provider and the user, as the parties are obliged to cooperate to build accession as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, Measures under the bill provide consumers with clear and important facilitations compared to the current legislation. The proposals before the Parliament serve to speed up, simplify free connections and create homes for families. This is also in the interests of the national economy, as it also makes the process of joining the investment easier, thereby further increasing Hungary's competitiveness. In fact, however, the proposal also favours service providers because it facilitates the rapid becoming of the actual consumer of free connection users, so that the connections created by distributors will no longer constitute frozen costs. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-03-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-03-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill on the amendment of certain laws to facilitate the connection of real estate to public utilities, as you have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, proposes, in particular, to reduce bureaucratic barriers to public construction, in order to facilitate the connection of buildings to energy networks and public utilities. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to briefly highlight some elements of this proposal that illustrate the purpose of this motion and why it is important for all parties to accept it here in Parliament. Dear House, The bill amends the Electricity Act, amends the Gas Supply Act, and proposes amendments to the Water Facility Act. Since 2017, the regulation of connection to the electricity, natural gas and drinking water and waste water networks has already provided an institutional framework for the applicant in the event of a request for access or unjustified technical conditions provided by the service provider. These rules of accession will be further simplified from 2021 onwards. The most important element of the regulation is that if the service provider does not accept the accession plans, the customer has the possibility to turn to the authority to state the adequacy of the plans, and if the service provider refuses to put the completed connection into service, it is also possible for the applicant to contact the authority. In order to facilitate the connection of real estate, the amendment provides additional facilitations for consumers eligible for free access under the current rules. For the purpose of the measure, if the service provider does not formally accept the accession plans, they may also be accepted by silence, i.e. not by the consumer to the authority with regard to the compliance of the plans, but by the service provider. And as we have heard in detail in the expozee, the most important element is that the customer can announce the execution connection within four months, and in the event that the service provider refuses to do so, in addition to its obligation to do so, it is also possible to ask the authority that the service provider reimburses its certified costs related to customer connection. [[10.50]] The amendment fits very well with the government's bureaucracy reduction and focussing on Hungarian consumers. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, An important factor for Hungary's competitiveness is the shortening of the duration of utility connections, electricity, gas, water utilities and thus the improvement of the domestic investment environment. Compared to the time needed for the procedure of other EU Member States, the period of public utility access considered to be an important condition for promoting investment can be further reduced and the domestic investment environment can be further improved. In light of what has been said, it can be concluded that the bill serves a forward-looking purpose, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-39	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Indeed, the bill in question makes connection with the public utility for consumers and buyers a real contribution. I could also say that it creates a new relationship in the context of the service provider and the consumer, and that if I want to say it strongly, I can say that it eliminates the often-perceived vulnerability that the consumer may have had because of the arbitrary choices made by the service provider. The secretary of state who spoke before me, the expo and the lead speaker of Fidesz, gave details of the positive measures that characterize and support this proposal. I do not want to repeat these, but I highlight three items: in particular, the possibility that the supplier's decision may not be final, as is appropriate in a rule of law, to the customer's authority; if the service provider fails to respond, his silence will become accepted; and the third is that it will be possible, where appropriate, to reimburse certified costs. In fact, the details of this bill could be analysed in the most precise way by a consumer protection lawyer, and I am not one of them, and he might be able to make a positive proposal and amendment in this. I, with my own preparation, look at this proposal, I can say that on behalf of the Jobbik faction, I think it is absolutely necessary to support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been committed to improving the living conditions of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian workers and Hungarian pensioners, and since 2010 the national Christian Democratic Government has been working to establish a family, to have children and to create a family home. This is well demonstrated by the double increase in support for families compared to 2010, which is now more than HUF 2300 billion. Along with the continuously expanding family support programmes, several elements of the unique family protection action plan across Europe were introduced last year. Accordingly, in 2019 and then again this year, in 2020, we managed to achieve more support than ever for families and children with children. The Fidesz-KDNP government does not withdraw or reduce family support programmes or their budgetary coverage during the period of economic downturn caused by the pandemic, but, on the contrary, prioritises family support and significantly expands family home creation opportunities. On the other hand, during the governance of the left, the founding of a family was equal to committing poverty. During the administration of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai, family tax relief, housing benefits and even favourable housing loans were abolished. The age of the family allowance has been reduced, and instead of three, the child and the ged have only been there for two years. Left-wing governments have tripled gas prices, doubled the VAT, Hungarian families had to pay HUF 1060 billion more between 2004 and 2010 due to the 15 times increase in gas and electricity prices. In the pre-2010 period, the left-wing liberal governments carried out robbery privatisation, sold out, distributed, squandered by the state, so that much of the Hungarian people's wealth became private property, a large percentage of the state's wealth simply became private property. More than two thirds of the nation's strategically highlighted companies were played by private hands, which affected the energy sector and public utility companies. For example, Gábor Demszky, former liberal mayor of Budapest, in 97 he owned the Metropolitan Waterworks and the Metropolitan Channel Works, which he then cynically called a very good business. By squandering the state's wealth worth HUF 10 000 billion, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his policy friends became rich, and Hungarian people and Hungarian families received brutal restrictions in exchange for Europe's highest overhead costs, highest taxes and debt-slaving foreign currency loans. Since 2010, the national government has continuously recovered previously irresponsible wasted public utilities of national strategic importance, and over the last decade, the state has increased significantly by 1.5 times, i.e. all of our common national assets, so that the country has been affected by a much more resilient crisis by the coronal virus epidemic. A significant proportion of national strategic utilities have been recovered, which guarantees that Hungarian consumers will continue to have safe access to water, gas and electricity. Hungarian state or municipal property guarantees that foreign speculators cannot realise huge profits from the consumption of Hungarian households, so that we can maintain a low level of overhead costs and maintain the results of the reduction. It is especially important for us that in these difficult times the burden on families does not increase, so the national government does not allow household costs to go away in any crisis. The bill in front of us represents a new facilitation and simplification for Hungarian families, Hungarian consumers, in terms of regulating the connection of real estate to public works. The proposal provides further facilitation, simpler administration and reduction of administrative burdens to facilitate the home creation of Hungarian families. As a result, the process of building new family property becomes simpler and faster, saving time, money and energy. The bill fits well with the government's bureaucracy reduction and focussing on Hungarian consumers. Our goal is to be competitive, XXI. implementation of a customer-friendly service state meeting the requirements of the 20th century. The current bill is therefore in line with the government's policy of home creation and reduction of red tape, but we have not yet reached the end of the road, and the development of the e-communication system implementing the digital procedure is under way, which will further reduce the duration of public utility connection in the future. As the Secretary of State and my Fidesz fellow Member have asked, I would also ask you to support this bill after the discussion. The KDNP faction will do so. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[For signal:]] The congressman is not in the Chamber. So, Honourable Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. The Member will speak as his last speaker when he arrives. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-43	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, T/13478 on the amendment of certain laws to facilitate the connection of property utilities I am glad or, in truth, saddened by the admission that Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa here admitted on behalf of Fidesz that it is only important for you to work with families since 2010, and that you have not done everything before. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Zoltán Kovács: You steered!]] If you have been able to deal with this here along with the connection of real estate, then this commitment from the point of view of left-wing parties, including the Democratic Coalition, should be taken into consideration calmly and a lot of nonsense should not be said. Just because you're very difficult to deal with, though you have to force yourself that when you talk about the family allowance when you're dealing with your problems, you can say that you've been keeping it at the same value for ten years, refusing to help families and not all the children, but dealing with the chosen ones, those who, by the way, are close to you. [[11.00]] Not so long ago, we listened to you, for example, about your elite school in Debrecen, where there are four young students in Debrecen, but you spend hundreds of millions to maintain this elite school. And to confront you with another lie, honourable Member, which includes the fact that the housing boom that we had before 2010 is not comparable to what you are doing. During your period, there were several years in which they could build less than the surrender of a permit to use construction during the war in 1943, while this area is your main hunting ground, and they are doing everything in their power to maintain the capacities built in the construction sector in a friendly circle, and therefore they are working a lot on it. Before 2010, before the crisis, people trusted the possibility of joining the euro, and there was a year when 45 thousand homes were built in this country. And since you later shaped the conditions of foreign exchange lending by destroying it along the course of the economic crisis, you have put a lot of people in a very difficult situation. But you're responsible for this. And if all this has been resolved and done after 2010, it is very right and I congratulate you if you would like to continue with this. But once again, please note that all children are important in this country, not for elite training, not for separated families, but for all children, and, yes, for the Democratic Coalition, all children are important and should be helped. Of course, this does not exempt us from dealing with the bill tabled to facilitate the connection of real estate utilities. Even because there is no unknown intention of having to and reducing the administrative burden on its own. I find it a little odd that, in 2016, when this area was already dealt with once, this was not done, since they started with similar principles, which I am pleased to see, because in 2010 it was in the minutes handed over by the Ministry of Economy, the transfer-take was part of the 183-point proposal in which proposals were made to reduce administration. I am pleased to see one of them here, although it took ten years for them to slowly get to the point where, yes, it is worth expanding the opportunities of the population and creating a position for the public not to be subjected to the convenience of the service providers that you have centralised. I trust, as my fellow Members have said, that I want to give this primarily to the population, but it also means to whom, in the second place, to whom. For friends with hundreds of whom you're trying to create a solar connection to make this faster? Well, so be it. The only reason I'm saying this is because the Democratic Coalition is committed to allowing households to connect to solar and wind power plants. By the way, we say that a million households should have the opportunity to do so. You may already have exceeded 57 thousand, so it is time to step up a little bit and give citizens more support. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So I trust that they will not only create the opportunity and condition for your friends or the owners of solar panels designated by policy to be easier to operate in places where you cannot control the services and help them in this way. But so be it. As I said, we will support it, even because the Democratic Coalition programme includes the need to prioritise this and to ensure that households have access to solar and wind power plants and to establish them. However, what I am missing is that once again in the regulation they have come to one sub-area and they have not done what we have proposed, because we regard it as a fundamental right for everyone to have access to water, electricity, heating, and even basically to the information society. At the time of the coronal virus epidemic, it is of particular importance to have a minimum programme that will provide families with the minimum conditions to work at home or to study at home. I regret that you have not taken advantage of the fact that the regulatory conditions for this are also being created here, or that you have to deal with what opposition parties have long demanded. They could draw from various proposals for solutions, and perhaps they could advance in this too. In this way, a minimum of 2 cubic metres of drinking water in Hungary, in a European Member State, could be established by means of the charging system and its transformation. But you refuse to do so, and you don't want to guarantee it. I regret that this initiative has been omitted. You're not learning anything from the past. This may be because here, as they ignore it, no impact assessment has been carried out, and we do not know exactly what their intention is. I heard what they said. And I trust that my fellow Members and authors have heard or will read later on from the Ministry the Secretary of State is present and will hear these well-intentioned initiatives and will be able to accept them, so that the T/13478 on the amendment of certain laws can facilitate the connection of real estate utilities. Opinions and proposals relating to the proposal No 1 shall be adopted. Thank you very much for listening to my opinion.
u2020-11-03-44	Thank you very much, Member, and welcome to my fellow Members. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group; he will be followed by Mr László Szakács, Head Speaker of MSZP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have prepared for this debate because it is not a major amendment that I am speaking to it very briefly, like Mr Zoltán Balczó, but Mr Lőrinc Nacsa's speech encourages us to go a little deeper into this issue. [[Defiance on the opposition side. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Always gives the foundation!]] I think this topic is important. By the way, thank you very much, Mr President, because it is very rare recently, in recent times, that pro-government Members have arrived prepared to debate a law, although they seem to have taken your speech in a slightly different direction, but I see that you have come with the intention of talking a little bit about these very important system problems. I therefore take advantage of the opportunity to take advantage of the Member's involvement in this debate, and of the fact that Mr Schanda is here, and then perhaps we can debate a little bit about the system problems mentioned by Member László Varju and provide information to the population in this way. [[11.10]] In particular, we believe that this bill is correct, so we will support, indeed, this is about overcoming administrative obstacles, although the question may arise as to why it has just come before the Parliament; but let us not be stuck here, but then let us vote on it, and trust that in this way this bill will support the objectives which have been supported by all of us, which have been formulated by my fellow Members. At the same time, Congressman Nacsa talked about how much the government has done and what principles it thinks about, for example, that it has recovered the most important infrastructures, utilities and so on. What I can say is that our very strong opinion is that not only the most important public services, but also the most important infrastructure elements, must be national-owned and, above all, what the Member said, the water utilities really must be national-owned, so it should be municipal, state-owned not only the water utility network itself, but also the public utility companies operating them. We have had discussions on a number of occasions, and I will always try to get my fellow government members to respond, most recently in the debate on a similar bill, Mr Kósa, that I very much hope that the government will continue to insist that these important utilities should be held in national ownership. The Member rightly said that these most important public services must be provided safely to all Hungarians and from my fellow Members here that access to healthy drinking water is a fundamental right for everyone. I have questions about this, right, which is basically part of this bill, why the members of the honourable government do not ensure this, why the majority of Parliament's pro-governments do not provide this. It is quite clear, isn't it, beyond discussion, that this sector is in a difficult situation, and this is not an opposition opinion; this is basically the sign of the profession, the opinion of the profession. I will not argue that the Balliberal governments before 2010 did not take any meaningful action, and in any other way, in a highly disproveable way, there were indeed privatisation efforts, which affected my city, Pécs, which are in no way eligible, so that companies providing such basic public services are outsourced into foreign property. No, but after 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government did not take any concrete action, nor did it take any meaningful steps to ensure that, for example, the water utility service did not collapse. We can say that, on the basis of clear and accessible statistics, the number of failures on the water utility system has doubled since 2011 and the proportion of water systems with an adequate rating has now fallen below 20 per cent. Well, when are you going to face this problem? You have taken certain administrative measures, such as centralised the water utility sector, so there are more than 300 utility companies left, and this is a positive step, so let's not deny the positive elements that a process has begun to compile the infrastructure itself, so that cataloging, which is a very long, many decades of legacy or many decades of lag, has started at least. At the same time, not only would they have begun to eliminate this huge system problem, but they have taken measures that have caused a serious blow to the sector, such as the introduction of a public utility tax. We also discussed this yesterday at the Economic Committee meeting, and the Chairman of the Economic Committee, Erik Bánki, acknowledged that his utility tax system was unjustified and unfair. For years, the profession, the Water Utility Association has been calling for the introduction of appropriate sectoral problem-finding materials to be a minimum step by the government, or to propose the introduction of the utility tax, because this could bring tens of billions of HUF per year into the system and leave so much more to do the maintenance work. But at the moment, the fact is that these utility companies and, in most cases, the majority-owned municipalities have no possibility, no source of adequate contributions, and thus no maintenance, no development, and no possibility of replacement work. There is a lack of funding from this system at a level that is estimated to be between 1500 billion and 3000 billion, which is missing from the system in addition to the planned resources, so the Water Utilities Association is talking about 1500 billion, and the County City Association estimates 3000 billion, and that is the amount of money that should be brought into the system for 15 years in addition to the currently available resources. Those who have acquired experience or experienced in municipal policy may experience long-term experience of the obligation to provide services, i.e. by default, the municipality has to formulate in such a rolling development plan specific development maintenance needs, problems and add existing resources, and how the missing funds can be replaced, and for many years the municipalities have been able to write in the decisions that there are no such sources of tender, but nowhere in the corner. But let's think together. We're talking about thousands of billions over the 15-year horizon, where would these funding be? In this case, you have done nothing in particular, you have been putting it off for years to face this problem at all. By the way, after ten years of governance this year, the Prime Minister acknowledged in a summer interview that the problem was indeed huge, a burning one, and the problem resolution was a thousand billion-dollar magnitude. Not long ago, I asked him about an immediate question, and then he challenged the 3000 billion, and he said he recognized the 1000 billion. I am not suggesting that the Prime Minister discuss this as an estimate of the County City Alliance, and I think that they have much more information on this. Well, they didn't do anything, and we don't see the source to save this sector. You recall that we are talking about the most important public service, i.e. drinking water, sanitation, the protection of water bases, and it is quite clear how this is related to people's health, and if the protection of water bases is not adequately protected, then they suffer pollution, damage that will later cause irreparable damage. We are therefore faced with fundamental and enormous system problems. On the other hand, there is also an economic aspect of everything, as a significant part of the water utility companies are on the verge of bankruptcy and are constantly signalling this to the government. For years, I have dealt with this issue not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a representative of the local government and as a politician, and we are trying to find some answer to what will happen. And that's exactly what we've been getting from the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Secretary of State Schanda, for a very long time now that some sort of sectoral strategy is being prepared. But who is responsible for this strategy? When will this sectoral strategy be completed? What will it contain? And what will you say about the lack of resources? We're not getting any specific answers. Yesterday I received an interesting signal and this question to the Secretary of State at the meeting of the Economic Commission from President Erik Bánki, who said that he acknowledged that the utility tax was unfair, wrong, and now the government has some intention of transforming it. If we could get information about this, about the direction, how and how the utility system is being transformed, I think it would be very, very important information. I would add that I always stress that it is not the opposition representatives that should have this information, but the population and the trade association, the Water Facility Alliance, that they should be able to calculate. I'm in regular contact with them, and they confirm that there is no substantial flow of information from the government. They have also tried to find Minister Palkovics, and they have dropped very strongly on the request, so the Minister and the Ministry do not really show sufficient interest in the sector's problems. I hope that the Prime Minister's statement in the summer predicts a change in this, and at least they will be able to sit down with the profession. It is also a serious problem that there are some state-owned majority-owned operators in addition to the dominant local government-owned companies, which are positive this year and this year, obviously we have received a 20 billion-dollar rescue package, but they are not in any way helping municipal majority-owned companies. On the one hand, we can see that the municipalities are under pressure, that the municipalities did not have the power, the resources, to pay these contributions, and I think it is clear that small settlements are mainly not prepared for this and that the irrational public utility tax, which is burdensome for them, is not paid in any way. We know that the burden of public works is disproportionate and unfair to a small locality in a peripheral situation, where the supply of a few hundred inhabitants is concerned. My question, therefore, is specifically what kind of change we can expect in terms of public utility tax when it comes to the Parliament. When will this particular strategy, which has been mentioned repeatedly by the Ministry of Innovation, be presented to the Parliament? What will be included, who will be responsible for it, and what is the time limit for this to come before us? I think we've all obviously heard of Alföldvíz Zrt. It's about the fact that they're practically on the verge of bankruptcy. My question is also that the Prime Minister, on my immediate question, said that drinking water supply is resolved in every corner of Hungary. Now, according to official statistics, this is not true, the Prime Minister had a very serious factual error, because according to official statistics received from the government, the supply of water is only 95 per cent of the housing population in the area, so even in the interior, 5 per cent is the proportion of housing that has not been supplied with drinking water, but these statistics do not include the supply of an increasing population of residential residents. I have talked about such symbolic matters several times, unsatisfying rural areas. For example, on the outside of Tamási there is no drinking water supply, but there is no solid road, public lighting, garbage transport, public transport is not solved, and on the other hand even the carriage of drinking water by a passenger car is carried out in such a way that when the population is not at home, it is absolutely not done in a way that meets the needs of the population. I went to the Ministry of the Interior, and the Minister of the Interior called the Fidesz municipality of the city in a letter to fulfil his obligation under the law. [[11.20]] So the problems, I think, are systemic. We agree that this bill is a good step. Similarly, a few weeks ago, we argued about another bill, which is also a small, good step. But when will they finally face the systemic problems in this sector at such a level that a proposal would be put before Parliament and that a debate could finally be launched, and would they really start to solve the problems with the involvement of the profession, and at least there would be some sort of prospect that they would face up to this? I would add that we have put forward a lot of proposals in this regard. Last time I mentioned it, your fellow Members made it impossible for us to put these on the agenda yesterday at the Economic Committee meeting, and at all, we can debate here in plenary. I very much hope that the Member or Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-03-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For the most part, by joining the speakers before me, I can say on this proposal, too, if it should be summarised, that basically a good start, a step, not necessarily in the right direction, something is being tried to ease, but it is not that one sees that they would have found the exact focus of the problems. I quote to you the reasons for this bill. It is said that the amendment fits well with the government's bureaucracy reduction efforts, and this is certainly the case here, with its home creation programme and its policy of focusing on Hungarian consumers, ensuring that no one is left without electricity, water and gas. Now, the removal of administrative barriers is not expected to leave no one without water, gas and electricity. There are no guarantees that this new amendment or this proposal does not provide any guarantee that a cubic meter of monthly water, drinking water, 30 kilowatt-hours of electricity is needed to maintain life, or that 15 cubic metres of gas can be provided for the maintenance of life, whether on a subject or for a symbolic amount, so that families cannot remain without care. This is what we would have expected, and we would have expected from these proposals, because as socially sensitive people, in addition to our solidarity with those in need, we believe that, in this particular situation, we consider it particularly important for families to be safe in their homes, because we do not know when you are going to introduce restrictions, we do not know when the tightening up will be justified, when we need to stay at home again, when the household consumption at home increases. However, what we can already see is that in the first wave, a lot of people lost their jobs, increased their costs, and could not afford them. What we can already see is that a lot of people owe money, a lot of people couldn't afford to pay their rent. [[Turning to Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Even though you are shaking your head, my fellow Member, you should read the relevant surveys. A lot of people couldn't pay their rent, and they couldn't pay for it because they were... we could also talk about what it was worth, but they couldn't pay it because they had to stay home, work at home, and because they lost their jobs and had to stay home, so they lost their jobs. This is what we would like to resolve with the proposal that, under subject law, especially now when there is a pandemic situation, it should be socially sensitive, so to speak, in a social band, in a subjective right, or for a symbolic amount, a cubic meter of water, 30 kilowatts of electricity, and 15 cubic meters of gas for each family. I don't think that's a terrible request. If that is exactly what my fellow Christian Member has been talking about, so that you can resign from or turn back on part of the utility tax, then you need to do so and you will finance it for the safety of your families. I think that this proposal is a good proposal. We, the MSZP and the Dialogue factions, have submitted a proposal for this. If you can combine these two, then I believe that families will be better off than the support for this proposal will be easier and wider. Also, it is not necessarily the reduction of the administrative burden that will give access to these public services to families who have been turned off, who have already been turned off. For them, this is not only an administrative burden, but also a financial burden, so is the installation of card watches, as is a significant switch-back, not only bureaucratic, but also a financial burden. I think that, of course, could be changed. If we get to what, how much families get, then we have always said this for a very long time at the price of energy sources, and this is a trend, gas is not bought for as much as it is given to Hungarians. Hungarians pay 101 HUF for a cubic meter of gas. In the last six months, this was not much more than 30 forints on the gas exchange, but there was 19 forints when there was a cubic meter of gas on the gas exchange. I understand, of course, that the price of gas exchanges cannot be traced every day to consumer prices, of course I understand. But this is a two-and-a-half-year trend, when the price of a barrel of oil was no more than $50-52, and there was no price of a cubic meter of gas for more than HUF 50 in the last two to 2.5 years, but the Hungarians still receive it for HUF 101. So, yes, it's cheaper to give this energy carrier. If gas is cheaper, then, of course, district heating can be cheaper, if gas is cheaper, electricity produced by gas turbines can be cheaper, then they can be given to Hungarians at a cheaper price. I think that then the intermediate companies that used to be MET will earn a little less, and a few oligarchs will earn less, but families will be able to pay their bills. I think that at a time when many have lost their jobs, we know that there are 150-190 thousand people who do not receive any kind of care, we know that the 3 months of job search support has passed, unfortunately the labour market has not been so strengthened that they could find work immediately, so for the sake of housing and financial security of families, more could have been done with such a bill than reducing administrative or bureaucratic burdens. That's a good move too small. We think that you need to be able to respond better to today's Hungarian situation, when there is a problem with the payment of the rent for families, especially if there are possible restrictions, which may be justified, and there may be no misunderstanding. We see that in the pandemic situation today, there are daily data that sometimes marked the whole spring. These steps may be justified, only then families must go home again, be home again. Then it certainly doesn't go without proper drinking water, it's winter, there's not enough heating available, and they obviously also need to use electricity, and more if they're at home. Therefore, I think that more could have been done in this proposal. If it is necessary for the government to resign from a part of the utility tax, the companies will also be pleased, my fellow Members. By levying the utility tax, the companies that have to pay for it were in debt of a hundred billion dollars. Of course, we are not just talking about utilities. Let's talk about Internet service providers, telecommunications service providers here, but usually where you can provide services at a customised price because of the reduction of your overhead costs, they are governed by the same rules, you have to pay the utility tax, and yes, as my fellow Member has rightly said, the last ones are kicked by water utility providers, the last ones are kicked by district heating providers because they are extremely taxed. [[11.30]] I think that if you give up on this and help the families, it will lead to more good. This is a good initial step to reduce bureaucracy at least; to reduce the burden on the population, not least its fears. Thank you for listening to my opinion. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-48	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member has the opportunity to speak, so I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13478. Parliament is discussing a bill which aims to prevent service providers from stalling on the approval of plans for public utility connections and to allow persons who submit and request such public utility accession plans, if the public utility organisation is silent, to consider them to be consent. In addition, of course, this proposal introduces even more novelties. On the one hand, in the event that the service provider rejects the application on the basis of the plans, it is possible to apply to the public authority within a limitation period of 20 days, or in the event that the service provider has refused the possibility of joining plans without a legal basis, in addition to being overruled by the public authority, it also obliges the public utility to reimburse the costs. These are practically the most important provisions of this proposal. If nothing has happened in the last ten years from which one believes that Fidesz has created laws with Parliament on the basis of individual interests, then, in fact, nothing else should be done for an opposition representative than to read this proposal and say that I am pressing the button and voting for it. I am sure that the entrepreneurs of the Fidesz interests have encountered administrative obstacles to the plans submitted to various utility service providers over the past period, which then reached the Prime Minister, and then the government and through which the portfolio submitted that this problem would then be prevented in the future by linking the treatment of utility service providers to a much stricter and closer relationship. I see a very serious disadvantage in this proposal that there is no distinction between large investments and those making claims to the general public. This is because I do not think that, in the case of major investments, the various utility operators are able, in such a short period of time, to assess the public utility plans submitted on the basis of impact assessments and other circumstances necessary in order to avoid any errors, serious failures that could have been seen from the plans and have a serious negative impact on their environment in the future. Indeed, at a residential construction site, a competent professional at any utility service provider can in one or two hours discover that the plan is suitable for the construction, the plan is suitable for the operation of the utility systems in that future building without fault and without damage to the system, or for the purpose for which the public works are used. But for a large investment with thousands of flats or for the construction of a major plant, I do not think that such a short deadline is sufficient for a public utility provider to really make a sound decision and to review the plans in the right way. I very much hope that, if this bill enters into force, we will not be able to meet in a few months' time that this close deadline and the very serious cornering of utility operators in this respect will have such consequences. I do not believe that this proposal was made exclusively and primarily for the benefit of the population and of residential construction. If that were the case, this government in the last ten years would not have brought such difficulties to the use of renewable energies as the levying of taxes, the cessation of the construction of different wind power plants in areas where there were no natural hazards that have been presented as a reason, and this government would not have contributed to the use of renewable energy by the public in the last ten years in the same way as it did. And then I'd like to bring Paks here, which, I think, weighs a lot more than the kind of thinking that the government is doing in this circle. My fellow Members have spoken about this in this House for many hours. So it is natural that I will vote in favour of this proposal, but I will very strongly draw the government's attention to the fact that, as a result of the lack of time for a public utility service provider to invest in large projects, I call attention to the fact that the public utility accession plans submitted are indeed without error and serve the purpose for which they are built, operated and do not cause negative effects in the environment that could happen at any time, because then what do citizens say again? That smart politicians are sitting in Parliament, a proposal comes before them, and they do not see the risks that can indeed be involved if the predictability or unpredictableness of human responsibility or irresponsibleness is not taken into account. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-03-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-51	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to make it clear to the fellow Members and perhaps to those who are monitoring our work, which debate I am taking part in. I am taking part in the debate that will help to facilitate public utility connections, and there are proposals that will reduce bureaucracy. This should, in my view, be fully supported. What kind of original intention and purpose was behind this, however, is possible, but it certainly also helps retail consumers. Congressman Nacsa wanted to put this measure in a broader context, which his government has done, in a positive way. There have also been praises that inspired Members to express the opposition opinion in full political spectrum, or perhaps, as Mr Kereszt, to speak a little more narrowly about the water utility, which can be partially linked; I do not speak about it because I cannot say more, the Member is very prepared. Obviously, I do not wish to expand this debate further, either in the direction of what subsidies have been received to keep jobs in the current difficult situation, because it does not belong here. There will be another item on the agenda where this can be discussed. So once again, what has been said in the second part of the debate, as much as I would like to call it an inspiration to express my opposition policy opinion, I am currently confined to the law on which we really need to talk, and I still consider this to be supported and supported. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-03-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-53	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the support of Mr Balczó. I am sorry that Congressman Varju left the room, because I thought, based on his speech, that he had the sage stone, how to repel wind energy, and how to make it available to a million households, because today's state of science doesn't know exactly how to control it, but I thought he had it, because of his speech it seemed. Obviously, he felt guilty because he could not respond substantially to those accusations and allegations about why the utility companies were otherwise being played into foreign property. Mr Crusade, allow me to make a political statement: you are trying to get back to power those who did this, and I agree with you that you should and must have national ownership of utilities and strategic companies, municipal or state-owned allies of yours are not doing this right now. Obviously, it must be difficult for Mr Cook, as an opposition representative, when he says sentences that this is a good step only in the wrong direction. So I understand that you have to say something wrong to a single opposition representative about the law, but it's a good law. [[11.40]] There is no ulterior motive, as Andrea Varga-Damm tried to suggest, but it is a good law that helps consumers by putting consumers at the centre; it simplifies and reduces bureaucracy. I would like to say to Mr Crossman, it is not true that nothing has happened in the area; it is also true that many decisions and many future actions are needed to improve the water utility network. The fact that there has not been a lot of renovations in the last ten years: you mentioned, for example, the HUF 20 billion grant, but in many places, if you look at how many network renovations have taken place in state-owned or municipal-owned companies in the last ten years, then the sentence absolutely does not hold up that nothing has happened in this area. And I just wanted to respond to László Varju that, Congressman, this measure will not apply to bitcoin mines, so don't be so happy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group, will be ready for a two-minute speech, please.
u2020-11-03-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, the debate takes some very interesting turns, and Congressman Nacsa takes the flag. I thank you very much for Mr Balczó's calm, sober speech that we have indeed overextended a little more specifically outside the text of the law, but we have remained within the framework of the debates. So on behalf of my fellow Members here, I have responded to this by providing the most important public services and the rest. And I also have one question for Mr Nacsa: we agree that there is a very serious problem in the sector, yet they are voting off our proposals, now for years to talk about it at all. Would you be willing to try, as a joint proposal, to come to the plenary session of the Parliament on a point on which these broad frameworks exist, when everyone can express their own policy views and we can launch a debate that would lead us to a possible solution to the problems that we all recognise, to become partners, or perhaps the Ministry could not initiate such a debate? I would be very happy, and then I promise you that I will not try to do this as an individual MEP, but I will wait for you to bring this set of problems to the Parliament either to the government or to my fellow Member, or to present one of these together. The other one, who we help to power, always says that, Congressman Nacsa. So far, LMP has come to Parliament on its own every occasion, working on very clear and solid political principles. And I can tell you that if you betray national interests, be it the left, be it the Christian Democrat or the Fidesz-whatever, we will always put the same criticisms just as hard. [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] And by the way, how and with whom and how the others get on the same page, I'd just like to give you an example of how Paks' case came up here. In 2009, Csaba Molnár, current DK MEP, then Minister for Economic Affairs, presented the issue of Paks enlargement to the Parliament, and you voted happily, cheerfully, applaudingly, so practically unanimous decision was taken, the old political pages joined together and voted in favour of the Paks enlargement. At that time, Jobbik and LMP were not even parliamentary parties; and after that I could list all the projects that are contrary to national interests from the Budapest-Belgrád project. I do not see who is proposing such proposals; if it is contrary to national interests, we will also put the criticisms to the left and to the right. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, will be the subject of a proper speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a more complex debate about the general issues of public utility services. Obviously, these are very important issues, and they affect quite a wide range of people in the country. I think it is right for us to debate issues involving a broad spectrum of people in a broader context. In this connection, for example, Mr Keresztes's speech, which dissected the water utility service, which I would not repeat in this sense, I could recall a few of the problems there from Borsod, and in this connection he spoke as László Szakács's lead speaker on behalf of the MSZP fraction, and he very rightly brought to the debate the fact that otherwise the price of gas on the world market is much lower than the price you provide this service to Hungarian people. It would certainly be possible to cut prices at such world market prices, which would save a lot of people in Hungary, and it would certainly be a very important decision in such a difficult crisis that you are not making. I think it is right to say this in such a debate, so I would like to call on you to immediately take into account the low price of gas on the world market and to reduce the price of gas. Or, as László Szakács rightly said, this must have an indirect impact on the price of electricity, and I think that this would be a great help for Hungarian businesses and companies in these difficult times. I'd like to put a different kind of broad connection on the table for what's important from this point of view. Few people know, but some experts believe that air pollution is responsible for the misuse of fuel, some 80%. A lot of people think that motor vehicle traffic is dominant in this, as well as old, outdated vehicles with inadequate engines. Obviously, there is a responsibility here too, so I think there is a need for serious vehicle exchange programmes, and there is a lack of government here, but I would not put that on the table now, but specifically the issue of my narrower Patria, Borsod County, Miskolc and specifically the Valley of Sajó. We have heard for years, and even for many decades, that the worst data from the periods that I have repeatedly called attention to this in Hungary come from the valley of Sajó, Putnok, Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter, and, by the way, Miskolc, the county seat, where the air is particularly unhealthy. More steps can be taken in this regard. On the one hand, it can be made easier for the public to achieve more environmentally friendly heating modes. If you like, this proposal may be such a step in this direction, because there have been many of us in this situation, or in our immediate environment, many of us who have experienced months of torture, whether in connection with a gas connection or a power connection, and I think that this is unworthy. It's unworthy. Obviously, every step that makes the connection simpler and faster must be supported, and indeed free or indeed cheaper for consumers, because then they prefer to join a more environmentally friendly way of using energy. However, there are two other things that need to be put on the table, and I believe that these directions of opposition are also correct in this debate. One of them is that if it's easier, say, to connect to the gas supply and, let's say, motivates users that gas is cheaper because you adapt to the processes of the world market and make this energy carrier cheaper, then I think thousands of people would join up with an appropriate support system for this heating mode or this energy use mode, which would mean that air would be healthier at the most neural points in the country. Because in Borsod County, people do not heat in many places because of their good mood, but simply because of their social situation, they cannot do anything else. Obviously, regardless of these, certain cases of this are reprehensible and there is a need to limit the use of unsanitary substances, but also to see the social aspects of this, which must be taken into account. The third is obviously energy rationalization, i.e. energy rationalization of real estate. Here, for example, very serious steps were taken with regard to Miskolc between 2002 and 2010 in the framework of panel rehabilitation, i.e. this type of energy rationalization. One third of these apartments were renewed in Miskolc, thereby reducing heating costs in these apartments. This program stopped, it didn't continue. I am not talking about the fact that no meaningful, serious programme of this kind has been launched since 2010 for family houses. So we should think about this and put these three things together: it should be easier to connect to modern energy modes; it should be simple to heat homes, houses, and other household appliances with modern energy sources. At the same time, the energy carrier itself should be cheaper if this is allowed by the world market and houses and homes are finally supported in a higher order of EU funds, which would mean that energy consumption will also be reduced, which is ultimately the most important in this respect. [[11.50]] I think that, if you take into account what my opposition colleagues have said, or if you bring in these constructive criticisms in the summary amendment, then there is a consensus here, but there is a real consensus that can really be if we put these three questions on the table at the same time, and action is taken at the same time. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to apply for a proper speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-59	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it was very right to speak with my fellow Member, thank you for that. I would like to ask just one more question; I see that Mr Secretary of State is not taking part in the debate, but will only respond in the closing word. I would like to ask you who is responsible for this strategy, which has already been mentioned, in particular within the Ministry, for saving the water utility sector. So who am I supposed to tell that you've been talking about this strategy for years? So who am I supposed to find, if I... [[Tamás János Schanda: Me.]] Mr. Secretary. Then please, Mr Secretary of State, answer in your closing statement what this strategy will contain and when it will be known and when to involve the profession in the preparation of this strategy. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Congressman László Kács is next for two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to a few things. First of all, I did not understand, Mr Nacsa, that I am a simple Member or a one-off. [[Nacsa Lawrence: One time!]] That makes sense, thank you very much. Of course, if you're an opposition representative, you're gonna tell us your criticisms and suggestions. These are, of course, suggestions, you can also understand that they are proposals. However, the affordability and paymentability of the family's overhead costs depends, of course, on a lot of things, depends on the system usage fee, depends on the taxes on it, depends on the quality of the technology, and depends on the technical state of the system itself at least. By the way, even the wages of the people who worked there and everything else. However, we are committed to making this affordable. Last but not least, there is a special situation where, due to the expected or possible tightening of the epidemiological rules, which we do not know can avoid, your government does not yet know, and only next week will the families know much more in their homes, and with winter approaching, not least with the coming of the holidays, and also because families are in a financial situation in which they are due to the peculiarities of 2020. It doesn't matter whether this is affordable and it doesn't matter if someone has been turned off from any of the services, it can now turn them back on and turn them back on. We can even imagine that this is not necessarily an issue that can be broken by this law, although we have seen it very easily put into salad law other provisions. We would like to point out that this proposal is on the table, please, that when we get there, we will also support this. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. From KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I said it was a one-time thing. I believe that all people are unique and unrepeatable, so I couldn't put it any other way. I would say to Mr Crusades that I am open to every debate, and I am not used to running away from debates, and I think he has experienced this here too. The government cannot initiate such a political debate day under the parliamentary law, which can otherwise be done by Members or factions or factions. I think that any issue concerning the future of Hungary, its national strategy, deserves to be debated at any stage, either in a commission or in any forum, or outside the parliamentary framework. I think the debate is always good. I would like to say to Mr Cook that if you look at the data of the HCSO, you will see that in your time there was a debt of a size that choked households and families, and that has dropped at a record rate in recent years, which is one of the indicators of poverty, the indicator of the household at risk of poverty, and that this has decreased significantly over 60 per cent compared to your time, because it is constantly, precisely because the household's income situation has improved over the past period, and therefore there is much less household debt, otherwise. I think that's a good way to go. We have to work until it's completely gone. I agree with that, and steps can be taken, but let us not discuss the process of constantly showing downhill and downward trends, with fewer and fewer households having less and less overhead debt. All I have said to Mr Crusade Leader is that the basis for the joint debate is not to say sentences that nothing has happened in this area in the last year, because that is factually not true. We have reported these many times, we have talked about them in the press, and in this area we have never said that we have nothing to do with the development of the water utility network, but that nothing has happened is also not true, we ask for fairness in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-64	Thank you, Congressman. From Jobbik, Mr Balczó Zoltán is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some of the points, proposals and amendments that I consider positive have been raised by opposition colleagues. Member László Varga also indicated that he would welcome an addition to the summary amendment, for example. I urge colleagues to submit an amendment if they feel that these positive changes can be made in the context of this proposal. I have looked at the website, there is not yet, it can be submitted by five o'clock on Thursday, so I encourage you to submit what you have said here, if you feel compatible with this proposal, and we will certainly support it by examining it in substance. Thank you.
u2020-11-03-66	Thank you very much. I would just like to add the floor for the record: it will be possible to do so on Thursday at 4 p.m. Unfortunately, anyone who tries to do so by 17:00 has already missed the deadline for submitting amendments. I can give Mr Attila Mesterházy a proper speech, but then, if he so requests, he can claim two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I'd give up two minutes. I have three comments based on the debate. One is that, since Lőrinc Nacsa called on opposition representatives to be fair, you said that we should not say that nothing has happened and that they are asking for fairness in this regard, then let us ask you not to say that every time you were not in the government, it was just bad, and that is all that has happened, because it is always said in the debates; I say that since you have been in Hungary, it has been heaven, and before that it has been hell. Believe me, not only do you have such fairness or such fairness from the opposition in relation to your activities, but also vice versa. On the other hand, I think that such a day of debate would certainly be necessary, as, for example, regarding the use of nuclear power, there may even be a debate between opposition representatives, as Mr Group Leader mentioned their position on the Paks enlargement. My position is that this enlargement was correct, and everyone who voted for it actually did the right thing, because the elimination of an energy generation unit from the system, which accounts for almost 50 percent of Hungarian energy production, cannot be solved in a magical way. So there's a reasonable debate. The point of view of enlargement may be that we are closer in terms of opinions. The third point would apply to the overhead. The Socialist Party is proposing this not only because, as my fellow Member László Szakács said, but also because, due to the pandemic situation, a lot of people work at home offices, for example, and the home office also increases the costs for all Hungarian families, and this is beginning to reach a level not only in Hungary, but also abroad, which is already the cost of household rent when it raises 20-30 percent in a month. So what you've been talking about is that there was a decrease in the payment of backlogs, that's probably true, but it's certainly not sure that this process will stay that way, and it won't turn back in the next period. Therefore, I think it is worth thinking about solutions that do not accumulate the problem, but, where appropriate, provide a solution to this. The proposal of the MSZP fraction, I think, would also give an answer to that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. To speak again, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go. [[12.00]]
u2020-11-03-69	Thank you, Mr. President. I promise it'll be very short, but I'd just like to respond to the fact that I may have misjudged it. I remembered the Paks II project, which started in 2009 with a principled decision, not the extension of the existing blocks. Although it is a current problem that, as a thought experiment, as we can see, the further extension of operational time, which is otherwise unprecedented, so it will be worth a debate in itself. And I would reply to Congressman Nacsa that I said that they had done nothing to solve the problems. Things have happened, but if we look at the fact that we have moved towards solving problems over the last ten years or they have multiplied, then clearly the answer is: these have multiplied, the problem is getting worse. So they are not solving the problem, but they are allowing it to grow and measures have been taken, such as the introduction of a utility tax that has made the situation worse. So there were a lot of problems before 2010, it was difficult, but now we are in a much worse situation than in 2010, and we have not yet turned to a positive balance, so to speak, so that it would get better every year, unfortunately not. That's why I'm waiting for such a strategy to finally get here. I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will reassure me that this will be done in weeks, it will be in front of Parliament, the profession will be involved, and at least then we can start solving the problems together or the government will be able to start working together. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] Yes, he wants to answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few sentences, but before that, I would like to thank you, and for this, too, I have not joined the very broad course of the debate, that there have been basically supportive contributions to the law before the Parliament. If I understand correctly, we can count on the support of the majority of the factions when the decision-making takes place, which is an important thing, because it is indeed a proposal that can provide real help and real support to Hungarian families and Hungarian people in this area. Allow me, in order to make this support even greater, to try to eliminate the strange comments that have emerged in the debate. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that this amendment does not apply to large investments. So accusing us of any ulterior motive here is a serious misunderstanding of this and a lack of knowledge of the draft legislation. What we are talking about here is that this change contributes to home creation and tries to make home creation simpler, less bureaucratic, only for those who receive free access, so it applies to these consumers. Let me also respond very briefly to the points which did not concern the specific text of the norm, but which appeared as a broader political context in the debate. On the one hand, I think it is important to state that this was also a debate, because today the cheapest gas in Hungary is for consumers in the European Union, and while between 2002 and 2010, 15 times the rent was raised, gas and electricity were tripled or tripled. Since 2010, Hungarian consumers, Hungarian families, have been able to pay much less in the context of the reduction of the rent, thus helping their everyday lives. On the other hand, allow me to put out the sentence that Congressman Nacsa has already said that since 2010, there has been a significant reduction in the proportion of people who cannot pay their rent in time. This proves, most importantly, that the policy of reducing costs is a successful policy and, secondly, that there are indeed fewer people in Hungary today in a position to create a problem for them to pay lower overhead costs. Allow me also to respond to some of the points raised by Mr Keresztes, who, however, has widened the framework for the debate in a professional way. On the one hand, allow me to reassure you that you can always come to me on any matter concerning our wallet, which is why I am working as Parliamentary and Strategic Secretary of State. So if you have any questions, look for me with confidence. There have been serious professional issues here, which we also agree with, because we really believe that it must be safe, whether water supply, drinking water supply or other public utility services, and that is the case. Today, you cannot say anything where the state would not be able to cope if the service provider could not provide the service, which, I think, ensures that everyone in Hungary today has access to, for example, clean drinking water. We also agree that these companies should be held in national ownership, and we thank you for the complimentary sentences in which you praised the government's policy in improving the water utility service system on how the situation of service providers, for example, has changed. Thank you for at least agreeing on this and for the importance of ensuring that the current government ensures that these businesses, these service providers, can really operate in national hands. Let me also say that we are constantly dealing with the situation of water utilities, and we are constantly working on how to help these service providers operate. The strategy paper on this has been drawn up, and the social organisations to whom you referred have been involved in the preparation of this strategy document and the opinions that have been received from the municipalities have been included. A very serious and very detailed strategy has been developed, which is expected to be negotiated by the government during this period. This will give rise to measures, which is quite certain; partly those which the government can implement in its own competence, and partly those which should be the subject of a parliamentary debate. I think that when we get to the point of arguing about something, it will definitely be possible and possible. Besides, I think that we also agree on the question, for example, that the water utility tax is currently operating in an unfair system and that there is a need for change. I am sure that it will also be possible to negotiate this in the near future, and it will also be possible to amend it, since a fairer and clearer regulation can help the whole sector to do its job. With regard to pipeline reconstructions, I think that there is no debate between us in principle, and this is indeed an outdated public utility network, and for many decades there has not been as much investment as is necessary. The Prime Minister confirmed this a few months ago, perhaps to your question as well. Here, too, we must see that this really requires a thousand billion-dollar investment. The debate on the next budget of the Union is currently taking place, partly on the recovery fund and partly on the traditional budget; it is certain that there too, in these areas, resources will have to be used in the coming years. We believe that these are serious improvements, and we sincerely hope that the European Union will not be a barrier to investing these resources in this important area. I would also ask you to help us in this debate. We do not always feel that the European Commission agrees that this is an important task, and we do not always feel that they want us to be able to devote significant resources to this area. So if you think this is an important matter, then you should support us and, because of the representation of national interests, not the Commission, but also the government in relation to the discussions on the allocation of funds. [[12.10]] So to sum up, Mr Group leader's comment: I think that we have heard a lot of things, and in some of them we still have to discuss exactly what they look like. And on a number of issues, we agree, which is why my request is to support the government's actions where we agree. He mentioned Paks II and Budapest-Belgrád investments in the full expansion of the debate, and here we are still confident that as real green politicians, they will be able to support these two very important, environmentally outstanding investments, rail development and carbon-free energy production, rethinking their own views. I hope that I have been able to answer the essential questions. Allow me, in closing, to thank you once again for supporting the submitted version of the bill, because even if there have been debates in the last hour and a half, yet what we have been arguing about, the consensus has been palpable. Thank you for your support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals for amendments, as I have already mentioned, can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal to amend certain consumer protection laws until closure. The government referral is T/13479. The information submitted by the State Audit Office is available to all of us on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Consumer protection is one of the priority areas of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. This is also confirmed by the fact that, for the third time this year, we are presenting a bill on consumer protection to the Honourable Parliament. During the spring session, the House adopted laws on the safety of non-food products and the strengthening of the control framework of the Consumer Protection Authority by a large majority, and during that period we also clarified the guarantee and guarantee rules at the level of the regulation for consumers. The importance of this amendment is given by the fact that it provides the legal basis for taking action against the dual quality of products. In 2017, we were superiors to eliminate the dual quality of products that can be purchased in the European Union, and we first indicated to Brussels that some products are offered in the same brand and in the same or similar packaging, but often in a significantly different quality in Vienna, Munich and Budapest. Any discrimination against domestic consumers is unacceptable to the Hungarian Government, so its primary objective was to establish an EU legislation to eliminate dual quality practices, which is indeed suitable for the elimination of the phenomenon. The issue of dual quality at EU and domestic level has been raised primarily and with some emphasis on food-like products, while non-food products are also covered. The issue of dual quality at EU level was included in the so-called "New agreement for consumers' interests" package of proposals, the provisions of which were incorporated in Directive 2019/2161. With the adoption of the proposal, the joint efforts of Hungary and the V4 countries in recent years have proved to be effective. The new legislation is also important because action against dual quality will not only be a declaration in the preamble to legislation but also an infringement that can be called upon by public authorities from 28 May 2022. By amending the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers, the Consumer Protection Authority will be able to sanction double quality for non-food products, household and chemical products such as detergent, bleach, rinse, cosmetic and toilet products from that date. In the case of food chain products covered by the Food Chain and Official Surveillance Act, Nébih shall act in the case of dual quality in relation to seed and feed in addition to foodstuffs. Dear fellow Members, The amendment also strengthens online consumer rights by transposing the directive, given the continued development of technological and digital tools. Thus, the importance of online trade is increasing, while, unfortunately, new cases of consumer deception have appeared, to which the legislator has to respond. Following the adoption of the bill, the so-called blacklist cases will be expanded among unfair commercial practices. In such cases, the Consumer Protection Authority shall act immediately without considering the circumstances. For example, in order to increase consumer confidence, an untrue, fictitious consumer evaluation appearing on the webshop or hotel website. Since almost all Internet users use search sites, it should be stated from mid-2021 that the first place is a paid hit and that consumers should be clearly informed about this and the most important parameters defining the order of hits. Dear Parliament, With the amendments presented above, consumers can be effectively and decisively opposed not only to the phenomenon of misleading, but also adversely distinguishing double quality. In addition, consumers can expect more effective protection in the online world and decent businesses, and unfair market practices that deceive consumers will be eliminated more quickly. I therefore ask you to support the bill after the debates. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal to amend certain consumer protection laws before us is essentially a legislative amendment for harmonisation in the European Union, which sets out, among other things, the subject of dual quality, declaring that one of the goods is marketed in the Member State as if it were identical with the same goods marketed in another Member State, while there is a significant difference in the composition or characteristics of the goods which cannot be justified by legitimate and objective factors. Dear House, One of the most important elements of the bill is the creation of a legal background for countering double quality. Hungary, as stated in the expozee, was one of the first in 2017 in the European Union, which expressed its opinion in this regard. It is unacceptable for the Hungarian Government to discriminate against domestic consumers, and the primary objective is to establish EU legislation to eliminate dual quality practices, which is indeed suitable for dealing with this phenomenon. The importance of the proposal is given by the fact that, once adopted, it provides the legal basis for real action against the dual quality of products. On this basis, a case of unfair commercial practice may be sanctioned by the Consumer Protection Authority by means of an official procedure. Under the rules, practices where goods are marketed in one Member State in such a way that they are identical in their brand name and in their appearance to goods marketed in another Member State will be considered unfair, but there are significant differences in their composition. With regard to the issue of dual quality of products, the medium-term objective is to reduce the phenomenon as effectively as possible in order to eliminate misleading practices in the EU and domestic markets, and the long-term objective is to eliminate double quality in full. The bill also strengthens online consumer rights in view of the continuous development of technological and digital instruments and further changes to the application of consumer protection legislation, which include elements that are partly harmonised and partly not linked to them. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, In the context of technological development, there is a process of increasing the role of online space and online marketing in terms of trade. One of the biggest expansions of online marketing appears in social media, where businesses and companies have access to advertising platforms that reach a large number of people, especially young people. Many companies offering services use positive consumer opinions for advertising purposes, which are sometimes false, and sometimes come from a non-existent person called fake profiles. It is proposed to be a blacklist case where the company provides consumer assessments in social media, for example, in the field of e-commerce and the provision of services, which are not issued by real, i.e. fictional persons. It will also be prohibited to sell tickets to events online, where the trader purchased them by automated means to circumvent restrictions on the number of tickets that a person can buy or any other rules applicable to the purchase of tickets. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to note that, in addition to the consumer protection measures taken in Parliament, the Consumer Protection Authority has a large and important role to play. The effectiveness of their work is demonstrated by the fact that a national consumer protection investigation was launched in early October, which showed that some companies tried to profit from PCR tests during the coronal virus epidemic. The government introduced an official price of HUF 19 500 for PCR tests so that no company could profit from the epidemic. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The investigation is still ongoing in Budapest, but the government offices of the 19 counties have already completed it. So far, 81 operators have been checked and 20 of them have experienced problems, meaning that one in four companies has unfortunately acted in violation. In my opinion, taking consumer protection measures is an important part of the legislative work, since in many cases we can prevent or put an end to consumer abuse. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group of Representatives. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that the application of better protection rules to protect consumers and their transposition into the Hungarian legal system should, of course, always be welcomed, but, of course, a few parts of the proposal should be included, which we ourselves consider to be important. The first, which the leading speakers before me spoke about relatively longer, is the online trade, which we see both its weight and its role will be appreciated in the pandemic period, and with the inevitable tightening of the holidays, obviously the weight and role of this will be strengthened. For this reason, protecting consumers and protecting consumers in the online space will, of course, pose even more serious challenges to regulation as well as cyber protection. One thing is that there are rules, and there are regulations on the basis of which there may be some activity to be persecuted, or there are rules on the basis of which a person who violates these rules may be condemned, of course, there is one thing to be prepared on the other side, in particular, that consumer protection should have the first and most important task of having sufficient deterrent powers and preventing harmful effects on consumers, or that there should be as little damage to certain legal transactions as possible, not only to create the rules, but also to ensure that the conditions are properly operated. I think that it is not enough to take over only the European Union's legislation, but to create the conditions for it, for example, in the online space, but I could say, in all the other aspects that this proposal has listed, we could also give a great deal of examples where these conditions need to be created. I trust that the decision-makers, even the government, will properly recognise this if they do not, and then I will speak now, and they will create the conditions for this. The other thing we are talking about here is double-quality goods that are capable of being misled. This is a very, very long-standing case, which started in the last cycle, when multinational companies were accused of most of this by the pro-government politicians, as well as the former Prime Minister's Commissioner of this case, as far as I can recall, and let's face it, these rules are now being introduced into the Hungarian consumer protection rules. I think that there is too much time that goes by so that we can resolve these issues properly and comfortably. I remember that, at the end of the last cycle, there was a so-called commando or a control group that checked the quality of dual-quality goods, especially in the large multinational food chains, and we are just coming up with the regulation that takes over the EU's content. I think that, of course, consumers can be better protected, but now they are finally here, and that should be welcomed. It must be said that this directive does not fall within the scope of the non-compromising membership of the body, which is clearly not included in the proposal. What can be a work that goes beyond the proposal and which basically helps and promotes the interests of Hungarian consumers, if Mr State Secretary has already started his exposé by saying that this is a very high priority in Hungary today, when it comes to consumer protection, let us allow people, especially if they are opposition representatives, to talk about, in any way, that there have been cases in this country, especially in the lawsuits launched after foreign exchange credit, where EU consumer protection standards which were not necessarily applied in 1993 were not. So we are talking about some 27-year-old standards, its transposition into the Hungarian legal order, its interpretation and its interpretation of the Curia and its interpretations of the consultative body that no longer operates for a year, not necessarily of the consumers, but of the financial world. Our proposal or comment, our criticism in this case, is that, as is the case here, it is necessary to establish the conditions for not only establishing a set of rules, but also to create a suitable set of conditions for its proper applicability in the cyberspace; whether we say it is possible to import, sell and control dual-quality goods. So it is possible to prevent the damage and not only to condemn someone later, of course, the necessary conditions must be made available, be it an institutional condition, be it anything else, so the previous practice must also be corrected in other cases, which affects roughly one tenth of the population in respect of foreign exchange creditors. I ask that, if this is a priority issue, it really is a priority issue in the ministry's life, then in terms of consumer protection, they should also be there for people against the financial world. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The development of consumer protection is a continuous and high priority, since we meet it in almost every aspect of our lives, from everyday purchases to telecommunications and environmental regulations. Therefore, Hungary indicated already in 2017 the dual quality of products that can be purchased in the European Union. It is unacceptable for the Hungarian Government to discriminate against domestic consumers. [[12.30]] In April 2018, the European Commission presented its legislative proposal on the modernisation of the EU consumer protection acquis, the so-called New Deal for Consumers, the NDC agreement, i.e. the new agreement in the form of a package of proposals for consumer interests. On this basis, the directive, which is of paramount importance for Hungary, has been drawn up, as it contains rules on combating the dual quality of products. The primary objective was to establish EU legislation to eliminate dual quality practices, which is indeed capable of eliminating this phenomenon. The issue of dual quality arises primarily and with emphasis on food-like products at both EU and domestic level, while there are also links to non-food products that are not considered food. I would like to stress that, in addition to a number of consumer protection rules, one of the greatest achievements of adopting the package of proposals is the regulation of the issue of dual quality and the declaration that dual quality constitutes unfair commercial practice. The present bill is therefore essentially of a legal harmonisation nature and is intended to transpose the Directives 2019/2161 of the European Parliament and of the Council. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that unfair commercial practices appear not only in the preamble to the directive but also in the norm text, so that the double quality requirement is incorporated into the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers; hereinafter Fttv. According to the provision, practices whereby goods are marketed in one Member State as equivalent to the same goods marketed in another Member State, while there are significant differences in the composition or characteristics of the goods, unless justified by legitimate and objective factors. Such an objective factor could be domestic regulation, such as the regulation of public health product tax or the seasonality of raw materials. The bill also amends the rules on energy labelling in the context of legal harmonisation, repeals the mandatory provisions of the cooperation agreement on cooperation between the Consumer Protection Authority, the Hungarian Competition Authority and the Hungarian National Bank and its content in relation to notification of procedures. In addition, the bill also contains other important provisions that strengthen and increase the efficiency of the domestic consumer protection institution system; it introduces mandatory electronic delivery to the conciliation bodies for businesses and gives consumers the opportunity to do so. In addition, the bill seeks to address a number of problems that have arisen in practice, particularly in the area of online trade. To this end, new concepts of harmonisation, such as product ranking, are incorporated into the law on the prohibition of unfair commercial practices against consumers. It is proposed to indicate, for example, whether or not a trader of a third party offering the product online, which is important for the consumer to have information about, for example, the purchase of B2C, i.e. from the trader, because in this case he can exercise his consumer rights, such as withdrawal, warranty; whereas C2C, i.e. not in the case of purchases from private individuals. It also requires the indication of search parameters to inform consumers on the basis of which the search engine rankings, such as price, availability and popularity categories; information on the possibility of a consumer evaluation, i.e. an indication that anyone or the service that can be purchased on the website can make an assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, Hungary took precedence over the fact that, as Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member stressed, a substantive regulation on the dual quality of products that can be purchased in the European Union was unacceptable, since any discrimination between consumers in different areas of the European Union is unacceptable. With the provisions set out in the bill, the Hungarian government strongly takes action to protect consumers in the field of online commerce and rejects the phenomenon of dual quality of products. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-81	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Before I go into a more detailed analysis of the draft law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the impact assessment of this draft law has not been carried out in this case. I do not know how this affects what you have said about the fact that this year is the third time an amendment has been tabled, which in itself may be an important condition of care, as you have said, that it is being dealt with a lot, and on the other hand, it may be unthinkable that, otherwise, a recommendation from the Juncker Committee is being proposed in 2017. Last time we dealt with this was May. In this way, I think that after the third time this year, I hope that there will be no problem or experience in extremely changing market conditions so that they do not have to do this for the fourth time this year. But I certainly welcome that if you take and take an initiative that is in the interests of consumers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is important not only for the Hungarian Government to take action against double quality, it is in the interest of all Hungarian citizens; and it is equally important for me and the Democratic Coalition not to be deceived or to have the opportunity to deceive citizens. I think that if, in particular, there was talk of such fairness earlier, then perhaps this possibility should be taken into account in this way. So, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is important not only for the government to take action against double quality. Well, as you have said, in the voice of the pro-government representatives, it has been said that the "New Agreement for Consumer Interest" initiative has come from the European Commission. I am pleased that, on the other hand, they are not fighting, they are not going against a drawn sword, but rather they are going into the case-law and those which, by the way, are included in the Commission's initiative, are being taken into account. And in this, strengthening consumers' rights on the Internet is very important: increasing transparency in the online marketplace, making online platforms' management results more transparent, or showing new consumer rights in free services. Let's quote free because it's not really free, because we provide our data to certain service providers, and the regulation on this would be particularly important. In addition, the introduction of a European form of representative demand, I think, is also interesting in this regard from the Commission's side, but the action against the sale of consumer goods in two qualities, as I said, has been on the agenda since 2017, and it is therefore welcome that the Hungarian Government has reached the stage of dealing with this by 2020. The change that appears in favour of or in the context of the digital and single market, I think that the strategies that appear in the European Union will affect us, I trust, and then we can move on with it. [[12.40]] Just because domestic shopping habits have changed significantly, we all experience this. But it doesn't have to go far. We are in the family, and the use of the Internet has become a habit in the family. In addition, during a pandemic, the possibility of home delivery is of particular importance. Here, not only volunteers help in the framework of local governments when organizing this, for example, in the spring, but we can also talk about services appearing here in the business area. This is related to the European trend, and Hungary is part of it, and we are part of it. In this way virtually anyone can participate in world trade and order goods from there in a simple way. On the other hand, experience is that, if there is a need for follow-up, but consumer protection, yes, it is necessary to catch up with the possibility of dealing with fraudsters in such trade. In the long term, a sustained growth in internet sales can be expected and this will generate further developments in web commerce. I wonder how consumer protection will be able to follow that. The Democratic Coalition considers it important, precisely so that, in addition to the good directions already mentioned, let us say that citizens have more knowledge of mischief and fraud, this civic training must begin at school. We therefore urge conscious consumer education and further strengthen information on the population, because the Hungarian customer is at a disadvantage in relation to European practice, and the State has a responsibility to take more steps in this respect so that the conscious customer is better informed in the context of conscious consumer education. What I would like to add as an addition, of which I perceive little, is that civil society organisations are not given enough opportunities to raise awareness. I consider the involvement of conciliation bodies to be important in itself, and if, on the basis of experience here, they have been able to involve or regulate elements such as the use of electronic notification, I consider it important. But, in itself, for consumers' knowledge and awareness of the population, there should be a greater opportunity for civil society organisations, I think. Finally, in order to protect European consumers and to protect Hungarian consumers, the regulation that television advertising can only operate within a certain time limit is my conviction, and my neighbours will certainly tell me if I do not say so here that what is happening on television, that otherwise the control of the Media Authority, does not seem to be effective enough in terms of the much higher advertising times that televisions use, this is, let us say, extremely detrimental to consumers. With all due respect, I would like to ask the Consumer Protection Authority to examine this in order to increase the consumer awareness of Hungarian citizens as originally intended, to be less fooled, and I hope that, if not fully, this law will be a step forward after its amendment or initiative for the third time. There may be further opportunities until the end of the debate and this bill may then be eligible for consumers' benefit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the first independent representatives to come forward. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-03-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13479. A legislative proposal is being discussed by Parliament, which contains amendments to consumer protection rules, in particular to the modernisation of the European Commission's consumer protection acquis. It also includes other consumer protection changes. The European Commission, by building up the so-called New Deal for Consumers system, is trying to ensure that as a result of increased e-commerce, consumers are harmed as much as possible and that, on the one hand, traders are not able to abuse consumers in trade and, secondly, that there is no double quality of products sold by companies within the European Union. As my colleague László Varju said, this is the third time we have dealt with consumer protection rules this year. By the way, I do not understand why, if you are already dealing with this, I think, a working group, you cannot submit a proposal within at least one year, where the updating or development of this particular item is brought before the House for legislative provisions. Fidesz's legislation is extremely complicated and confusing. No wonder, by the way, that it is quite difficult for law-abiding people to apply their rules; the content of constantly changing relationships and relationships has made society and economic life uncertain. In this proposal, too, the representative of the government submitted that the Hungarian Government, with the help of Parliament, is currently trying to adapt consumer protection provisions to EU rules. But if the Hungarian government is so diligent in implementing EU directives, I would ask why it is not so diligent in implementing European judicial decisions. Hungary does not implement 74% of the judgments of the European Court of Justice condemning Hungary. And by the way, if it is so important for the Hungarian Government to enforce EU standards and principles, and the Hungarian government is so keen to comply with EU directives and expectations in legislation, then my question is why the court ruling on the withdrawal of invalid pensions is not being implemented, why the amendments to the legislation on transparency of NGOs supported by foreigners are not being brought to the House. I would like to ask why the provisions of the Higher Education Act, which were annulled by the European Court of Justice, are incompatible with fundamental European principles, are not brought to the House and the European Court of Justice decisions on the choice of textbooks in education have not yet been brought back to the Hungarian Parliament. Thus, the various traders not only apply double quality in terms of goods, but the Hungarian government also applies double quality in terms of the incorporation of EU principles, directives and decisions into Hungarian legislation. I must say, I very much welcome it every time consumer protection rules are amended in the interests of consumers, allowing consumers to be protected as widely as possible. However, let me say to you, and I do not want to put it bluntly, but if the Hungarian government had been monitoring the activities of the financial intermediary system against consumers with at least half the same energy and would have made appropriate rules, then Hungarian society would not be indebted to the mass of wrong, expressly abusive contracts, and the Fidesz government has not, for ten years, been trying to copy the activities of the financial intermediary system which are extremely illegal, harmful to consumers and which are attacking consumers. I wouldn't want to put it too harshly, but the Hungarian government is more protective of the Hungarian citizen buying faulty Chinese panties than, let's say, the tens of millions of Hungarian citizens, who only the financial institutions failed to inform about the real risks. [[12.50]] In Hungary, the average internet purchase is HUF 15 400, while the average real estate borrowing of Hungarian households is HUF 9.1 million. So the Hungarian Parliament supports the population in the matter of small money, but when we talk about the Hungarian population's long-term indebtedness, interestingly, these consumer protection aspects do not come to the fore. In particular, I would like to point out that, for example, notaries, whether they like it or not, provide services, since they are commissioned for money. The activities of notaries, whose assistance towards the financial intermediary is a totally illegal activity which violates fundamental substantive and procedural rules, are not investigated in any way by the Hungarian government, although they do a little more harm than the possibly poor quality of Chinese and different South Asian products to Hungarian voters. Of course, I will vote in favour of the proposal itself, because indeed, the Hungarian consumer buying Chinese panties is as important as when taking credit. However, I would ask the government with great respect, if you can already draw up consumer protection rules three times a year, then do it, so that you can expect at least one task, as much attention, as a willing service, from a simple convenience store that operates a webshop. I myself believe that it is possible that these rules are for the benefit of a larger social population and can be sold better in society, but for the time being, the economy is operated, generated and maintained by large-scale borrowings with which citizens purchase high-value assets and, in this respect, it is much more important that their protection is enforced. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-84	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask my fellow Members who else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say very briefly. I would like to agree with my fellow Member, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, who spoke about the importance of this area, this area of consumer protection, and that is all I would like to emphasise in my very brief comment. The Secretary of State also spoke about the importance of such a regulation and how serious it can be to protect consumers, voters, Hungarian families, both their health and their access to the right products. I would also like to encourage the House, the Secretary of State and the Ministry to talk more about consumer protection in this House, if possible, because it is a tool in the hands of the current government that I think it can act very effectively against fraud, scams or unfair business and market behaviour in the interests of the Hungarian people. So I think that the strengthening of this type of regulation or the authority itself is certainly in the interest of the Hungarian people. I wanted to draw your attention to this, also as someone who once supervised this area as State Secretary, so I know the potential and effectiveness of this in order to protect Hungarian families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak further. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-03-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond briefly, but specifically only to the suggestions and opinions expressed in connection with the debate on this law or in the context of this law, since our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm did not necessarily express his thoughts on this subject alone. But I asked for the opportunity to give a summary of some of the points, because I refer here to the speeches by our fellow Member László Szakács and by Mr László Varju, which showed me that either they had not read the draft law with due care and the justification for it, or they did not pay attention when the reading took place. After all, when we have been criticized for why we have only now been acting since 2017, why the responsible ministry reacts so slowly and brings to Parliament the draft law, the proposal to amend the law, then either the expo was not observed or the bill or the history was not carefully followed. We have indicated that, at the time when, for the first time in 2017, there was a greater outrage in Hungarian society, and the immediate reaction of this was that the government had a serious control of the government at political level, we signalled to the EU the problems that are related to double quality problems. I also pointed out in the Expoze that we acted together with the other V4 countries in order for the EU to address this area. From 2017, as László Szakács noted, the Member noted the date, but forgot to remember the date which was November 2019. This recommendation from the European Union was formulated in November 2019 and we reacted very quickly to this, because after a preparatory work, after the opportunity and work of the right legislation in Hungary, this bill is now before Parliament, so that, by the way, we may be the first ones to bring this amendment to our national parliament. This amendment should enter into force in May 2022 and enter into force, then the legislative amendment should be adopted to the national parliaments on the basis of a proposal from the respective national governments. So we are not late, and I think that we are on time, and this is proof of how important consumer protection is to the government, how important it is to ensure the safe consumption of people. Then there was a question, a suggestion, or perhaps a criticism from the mouth of László Varju that we do not care enough about consumer education, properly planting consumer protection knowledge in society. I would like to say that there are 88 schools currently between contributors and collaborators who teach consumer protection in relation to consumer protection, or that in actions relating to this, students are sensitive to this area. We announce 80 million forints a year to civil society associations and NGOs in order to contribute to the dissemination of consumer information in society. This is an ITM project, i.e. a project of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. I hope that what has been said will help my fellow Members to achieve even greater support in this area, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there have been a number of actions that have been carried out recently by the Consumer Protection Authority in order to make it safer for us consumers on the market, especially as my fellow Members have said in the e-commerce market. There are about 6,000 electronic commercial units in the country that we do not know exactly the number, but that is about what could be the target of consumer protection authorities' control. According to the last number, about 3,000 were checked. Thank God, controls have led to significant reductions in infringements, which have not always harmed or tried to harm consumers, but have started to draw attention to companies dealing with e-commerce, starting with certain minor irregularities. It can be said that in the majority, in a large proportion, in more than three quarters, even those that had to be sanctioned, it was in a very short period of time that it was possible to persuade the infringement to be either eliminated or the minor or greater errors to be corrected. [[13.00]] So it can be said that, for the third time this year, we are here before Parliament in dealing with the area of consumer protection, and we can prove the importance of this area. Regarding the speech by our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm, who criticised us why we are here for the third time: I would like to note that we are talking about three different areas, which could be regulated by amending legislation or legislation in three different areas. You, Congresswoman, as a lawyer, surely know that this was necessary, because the market surveillance law and the consumer protection law, especially if it requires a large-scale amendment, cannot be more precisely: it is not appropriate to discuss it in a debate. That is the reason why this law is here before Parliament for the third time. And specifically because, as I said in the expozee, the government considers consumer protection to be a very important area, it is very important that the Hungarian people are able to buy safely, and to do everything in their power to update the laws, or to adapt them to the needs, it can do this efficiency at the highest possible level. Thank you for your attention, and I will ask for the support of the law.
u2020-11-03-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I thank you for your cooperation, and I give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-03-89	I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/13480. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor first to Imre Szabolcs Ágostházy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda, that his first speech will be here in Parliament. Good luck, good health, Secretary of State, we're listening. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-11-03-90	Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is a great pleasure for me to be here as Secretary of State, as well as a former colleague of the Parliament. In the context of the bill on the agenda, it is of particular importance for the government that the EU's development resources available to Hungary can always be used in a regular manner, according to the highest efficiency available and with the greatest added value for Hungarian families and economy. In the 2014-20 programming period, a total of 618 calls for proposals were announced, in which we announced more than HUF 10 500 billion in funding. We are also good at drawing on EU development resources in this cycle. The European Commission has already transferred 54 percent of our framework to date, and if we compare it to the same period of the previous funding cycle, when this indicator was still 44 percent, then we can see from this that we have managed to get the institutional system to work faster than before and thus ensure more efficient, faster payments for both Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families. In many points of the bill before us, it appears to be technical, but its practical significance is considerably greater. In essence, this is one of the regulatory elements that ensures the objectivity of the decisions taken, the fastest possible decision-making. The Parliament will vote on the further operation of a system on which neither the European Commission nor the Hungarian public have, in essence, made any substantive criticism of it. The government was able to resolve the temporary slowness of its introduction within a very short period of time. Dear House, The content criticism of aid applications for the use of EU funds submitted by local and regional authorities and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is carried out by public project evaluators. This system provides the conditions for an objective, transparent evaluation of each project, perhaps the most important one, which is completely independent of market participants. A public project evaluation may be a person who fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act to be amended and has a fundamental right in a public body. This is a condition of independence from markets. In all cases, public project evaluators shall have multi-annual professional experience and shall, as appropriate, participate in the evaluation of projects submitted in the field corresponding to their professional qualifications. The main objective of the legislative amendment before you is to extend it to the full duration of the 2021-27 seven-year budget after the current legislation allows the use of public project evaluators for the current funding cycle. We will transform the state project evaluation relationship, which has so far been well achieved, into a permanent state project evaluation law. The main consequence of this is to ensure a smooth transition between the two funding cycles. According to our hopes and current well-planned measures, the Hungarian entrepreneurial sector and Hungarian families will not feel the transition between the two EU funding cycles. The professionalism of the evaluation is guaranteed by thousands of dedicated government employees working in the public administration. However, other legislative changes that have taken place since the original adoption of the law in the meantime make it necessary to review and update the legislation. In this context, it is necessary to redefine the conditions for the application of public project evaluators so that high quality evaluation capacity can continue to be available to the country. For example, as a result of the changes between certain legal relationships that have taken place in the meantime, it is necessary to extend the possibility of using highly qualified experts in universities that are subject to foundational reservation to include the possibility of applying public project evaluation. Former civil servants in vocational training centres have also become workers, and in view of their new quality, they should also be given the possibility to apply in order to assess projects effectively, and we will extend this possibility to those employed by public bodies in the future. Dear House, The amendment also makes the rules for the establishment and termination of the public project evaluation relationship more detailed. We are introducing the possibility to terminate the public project evaluation relationship by termination. The amendment also ensures and expands the scope of electronic administration. With this, we expect to be able to further reduce the duration of the public project evaluation currently taking place between 7 and 17 days. Anyone with experience in the use of resources in cohesion policy can see that such short-term periods are particularly short. We want to speed this up even further. Dear Parliament, The government considers it a priority that EU funds provide the highest possible added value to improve the quality of life of Hungarian settlements, businesses and, through this, Hungarian families. [[13.10]] The maintenance of a transparent and independent evaluation system is an essential condition, but it is also at least as important that the process of assessing applications for EU proposals is smooth for beneficiaries. The proposal therefore proposes to amend the public project evaluation system in line with the needs of the next programming period on the basis of practical experience. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-03-91	Thank you very much, Szabolcs Ágostházy Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Csöbör Katalin, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-03-92	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In 2016, the Parliament adopted the bill on state project evaluation status. The aim of the law was to achieve the social and economic policy objectives set out by EU funds for the 2014-20 programming period in the most efficient way possible and to be assessed on the basis of the intended utilisation. To date, the content assessment of the aid applications submitted for calls from EU funds for the period 14-20, which are essentially subject to a standard selection procedure, has been carried out by public project evaluators. Their work was the evaluation of applications open to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and local and regional authorities. Last Thursday, Szabolcs Ágostházy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology for EU Development held a press conference, and here he announced to the public that in the financial cycle starting from 2021 we can count on a total of EUR 51,3 billion of resources greater than ever. From this new instrument, Next Generation, Hungary will receive EUR 16.7 billion. The corresponding national plans are expected to be submitted following social consultation on the basis of the Commission's decision. A new organisational unit will be set up for the coordination of the Next Generation Fund, but there will be no substantial change in the system that manages operational programmes, which has already proven to be effective. Further simplification is planned in the seven-year budget application systems to facilitate access to funds. In the 2021-27 development cycle, the number of operational programmes will not change. On the basis of the planned framework figures, 30% of the funds would be allocated to the most popular operational programme for economic development and innovation. Greening will be promoted to a greater extent than before. The operational programme for this purpose accounts for 19 percent of the funds. Building on a competitive Hungary operational programme, cooperation with regional authorities, 20 percent is planned much larger than before. The share of the operational programme for mobility developing transport is also 20 percent. The Human Development Operational Programme has 7 percent, while the Digital Renewal Programme has planned this rate to be 4 percent. With this in mind, the main objective of the amendment that we have tabled is to ensure that public project evaluation capacity is also available during the 2021-27 programming period. It is proposed that the public project evaluation relationship, which has been established for a limited period until the end of the programming period, will be replaced by an open-ended public project evaluation relationship. The planned changes will serve to make better use of EU funds, to preserve the quality of evaluations and to ensure the applicability of the public project evaluation system. The rapid launch of the 2021-27 programming period, the assessment of mass contests and the early deployment of resources in the economy will be possible through the availability of evaluation capacity. As an individual Member of Parliament, let me highlight its importance from the perspective of the settlements in my constituency, so that they will be able to enforce and reach applications more effectively in Miskolc, Alsózsolcán, Felsőzsolcán, Szirmabesenyő, Arnóton and Sajókeresztúr. Extending the scope of expertise will help to achieve even higher levels of public project evaluations. The application of the evaluators will be evaluated by a five-member body, where compliance with the expected professional requirements will be examined, a formal higher education degree and at least three years of traineeship will be required. In order to carry out the tasks related to the public project evaluation as effectively as possible, it is necessary that the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds has as much leeway as possible in the delegation of employers' tasks within the framework of the public project evaluation relationship. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-03-93	Thank you, Congresswoman Csöbör. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-11-03-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Basic goals can otherwise be agreed. What is very fundamental here is that as much EU funding as possible should arrive in our country in as short a time as possible, this can basically be agreed with, and this is even a desirable goal. I think that the more transparent and transparent it gets into the country, the more they spend and use it, the more they go to investments that serve the needs of the population that we all consider to be saving. Once again, I would like to highlight the point of transparency, but here we have much more experience than we have any illusions left on this issue. But for now, of course, let's just use the resources, and then we'll discuss the rest later. I have heard from the lead speaker that now there is efficiency, there is quality in this regard, and there is capacity. If all of this were to be done, one would think that such an amendment would not be necessary, because the capacity of project evaluators in the public administration would still be in place. They could be employed in the administration, in any institution, in the municipalities, in the preparation, in the implementation, in the control, in any institutional system, if these capacities were available, they would not need to be amended. Then we should not apply special rules to those who already see that they will not be judged, but that they may be involved in one of the projects, they already have a date, they will be happy to judge the other projects and then they will want to quit their current role at a later good, predictable time. It is already apparent that, as the institutional system has been adapted, there has been a lack of capacity in the public administration, a lack of expertise, a lack of knowledge, a lack of experience, we can say that to what we think it is obviously involved. This can be seen not only from the papers, but also in everyday life. We see that when EU applications are prepared by local governments and economic operators, the public administration is indeed struggling with the lack of expertise, struggling to enforce the rules. There are a lot of early careers and, obviously, there is a lack of experience, which is sometimes at the expense of implementation, but it is certainly affecting the imperviousness of implementation and inefficiencies. We therefore consider this to be a proposal that shows that it serves partisan interests, and it seems that it is trying to resolve the previously unthought-out legislative proposals, and we also see that neither the parties nor even the trade unions have had any sort of consultation in this, even though everyone has put forward a proposal in this regard. [[13.20]] Therefore, we believe that we will not be in favour of absolving previous bad decisions. We ask you to reconsider the setting up of these systems in terms of transparency, transparency and efficiency, and to preserve experience and professionals in such a way that they can be used, used and acceptable to all, which is transparent and efficient. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-95	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-03-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The framework of the State Project Evaluation Scheme is set out in the Law on State Project Evaluation and the Law on the Amendment of Certain Related Laws and the Government Decree on the Implementation of the Law. The legislation referred to concerns the 2014-2020 programming period. In order to start the period 2021-2027 quickly, it is important that the capacity of the evaluators is available, which requires the amendment of the law so that the public project evaluation relationship can be maintained independently of the programming cycle. The proposal also contains a definition of fundamental rights and clarification of legislative references. The reason for amending these provisions is that there are also persons working with central government administrations and their territorial and local bodies whose responsibilities do not differ from those employed in government service and public service relations, thus excluding them from the public project evaluation system is an unjustified distinction. The same shall apply to budgetary bodies which are not part of a central administrative body, or to their territorial and local bodies, where public service and employment persons work. It is proposed that relations with a higher education institution maintained by the Trust Foundation are included in the scope of the Act and included in the legal relationship of acceptance of the State project evaluation as a fundamental right. In this way, it may, among other things, be possible to establish a public project evaluation relationship in higher education institutions operating in the maintenance of the trust fund for employees in teaching or scientific research. The public project evaluation is a public task, which has a significant role to play in the expertise and experience of those who carry out evaluations, as this ensures a high level of evaluation of the content of aid applications. The aim of supplementing the provision is therefore to strengthen the quality of the public project evaluation and to perform the public task even more effectively, by keeping state project evaluators with appropriate expertise and evaluation experience. In addition, the bill provides for interoperability between programming periods by replacing the state project evaluation relationship, which has so far been limited, by the permanent state project evaluation relationship. The current law only applies for the 2014-2020 programming period and the relationship of public project evaluators should be terminated after the end of the programming period. In the bill, the electronic administration will be further extended by requiring the prospective evaluator to provide the following: the applicant's data sheet should include a statement of whether it has access to a customer gate registration or an equivalent electronic signature service. I would like to point out that the proposal also includes additions to the termination of the relationship. The public project evaluation relationship may be terminated by termination, and if the evaluation's fundamental rights status is terminated, but another legal relationship is established within 30 days, the state project assessment relationship may be considered to be continuous. The proposal also includes a tightening of the law and includes a legal consequence in the following cases: if the valuer has refused to make a declaration of assets or if the valuer has refused to participate in national security control or where the valuer has identified a risk in relation to the assessment of national security, and if the valuer's fundamental rights are terminated and the employer under the State project assessment status has not been informed thereof and has continued to carry out evaluation tasks, in these cases the valuer may no longer establish a public project evaluation relationship. According to the law, the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds exercises the employer's powers over state project evaluators. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that, as set out in the bill, the extension of the scope of expertise will help to achieve even higher levels of public project evaluations, and that the amending provisions will ensure a more efficient use of EU funds, the quality of evaluations and the conditions for the applicability of the public project evaluation system. I therefore ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-97	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-03-98	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, There is an important bill before us, among other things because, as my fellow Member has said, we are dealing with the regulation of a public public task in the state, and we need to consider, accordingly, exactly what kind of task and how it will be carried out in the nearly half a thousand expanding ways. They're the ones who are so famous, who can be officially tapped by the state, their e-mails checked, their phones tracked. They are the ones who can be followed in this respect and can be done on grounds of national security. Their contact details are on government sites and websites, though I might add: because of the former, they promised these people a high salary, and they do so accordingly. I would like to remind you that before this was introduced in 2016, Hungary's international rating was quite negative in this respect. It is negative in this respect, and let us add that not only Hungary, but also the whole region, has received a negative rating in that the practice of project management is not broad enough and that additional professionals are needed. This law was therefore introduced on its own from 2017. I am very sorry that the government has not had time to analyse the past period, there was no way, and it has not given Parliament any information on how this practice, this introduction, has succeeded. There is a lack of impact assessment that would talk about what has happened in recent years. After all, on one side, the law creates the possibility for stakeholders to continue their activities, so we can assume that they are doing their job well. But in itself, I think that the original intention, the legislator's intention, and how much better the situation has been for the project to be carried out, was absolutely important to think about. Only because if we look at this not only from the perspective of project culture, but also as part of it, that if the project means that it can be moved from A to B, and the costs of that are pre-defined, then it turns out that at the end the result was multiple of what they came up with in Hungarian: it costs multiples in the end, then I think it refers to bad project management. [[13.30]] And from these overpriced and multiplicated projects, we can list a real set of recent years! Now, this practice is being carried over from the 2014-2020 period with a momentum for the post-2020 period, by practically praising them for this. So the design and launch of the system in itself was important, but I, honourable Secretary of State, regret and miss that all this has not been evaluated in the past. There is plenty of room for improvement in medium-term budgetary planning, project evaluation, selection, implementation and procurement in the region. However, in the case of public projects, what I have just mentioned is that they are slipping and can only be solved with significant cost overruns, which means that this also refers to the low level of evaluation of the project and to strong corruption and corruption. By the way, the European Commission assessed it at the end of 2016 and at the time it drew the attention of the Hungarian government that there was a problem with this, i.e. the new project evaluation system that was being introduced. He argued that the government's often politically biased experts appreciate the inspiring projects for EU support, the practice of project selection, and that the Prime Minister's Office would otherwise go over the head of the managing authority, overcoming the list of public support. If this can be done, what is the decision-making mechanism, just when, by the way, they are using someone else's money? and they alone do not ensure transparency. This criticism was also part of what concerns their culture of advance payments or the method introduced. I think that I am asking again and calling your attention to the problem that, in the context of this analysis, Parliament will not be given the opportunity to check the solution that you have proposed. We were then accepted by the majority of Parliament, and it was, in essence, immediately found out that what was introduced was detrimental to Hungary, because, to put it mildly, it not only leaves a lot to be desired, but also causes serious problems. Otherwise, this proposal proposes a significant extension of the scope of expertise, but I do not understand that this applies only to higher education institutions operating in the maintenance of the trust fund, or to all higher education institutions, by the way. It would be good if Mr Secretary of State could clarify that, because I think it would be very one-sided if this were only possible in the operation of trust foundations. This restriction is obviously, by the way, if I take it that this applies only to them, then it is a completely purposeful decision, which is a choice in itself, but if I understand the signal correctly, then I will not go any further. As a neighboring practice is, by the way, apologies and parentheses, I can't miss it here, because of the multitude of tests, the Slovak practice, which I'm going to mention now, is not only sympathetic to the fact that it is done there, but they have introduced it here for the evaluation of the project, otherwise they have decided on the project evaluation chosen by electronic draw. Why don't you see an opportunity? Why don't you put this in? Why aren't they using this method? Just because, as far as I can see from the requirement of national security screening, which I emphasized at the beginning, and as I said, they are the official listening people, as far as I'm concerned... and I'm curious about an impact assessment of what they've done, what they've done. Because it seems to me that the conversation with the person on the phone should not be considered a national security check. I sense that this national security check doesn't exist, let alone take it seriously, it doesn't exist. And in this way, I think that this, in itself, is a serious risk for major projects, projects above EUR 10 million. But I ask Mr. Secretary, why are you keeping this on purpose? Why don't you change the situation? And if they had changed, or if they had changed, or if they had done so, they might not have done so in public with Parliament, but otherwise the National Security Committee would deserve, or would need such information about, what experience they have had in this way, and in this way, I think it should be carried out. I therefore believe that this bill, which has been tabled, is bleeding from a lot of wounds, not only in its history but also in its consequences. And if I take this example of how serious the national security control system was now, I can only say as an example from the press that when Ghaith Pharaon made a deal and tried to carry out a big project, and then they did it anyway, well, let's just say the red lights didn't know when to flash, that's what you're not supposed to do. Therefore, it may be important not only for major projects in the European Union, but also for proposals in Sirmabesenyő, as she said, that the public project evaluation of the public service mission should be carried out as a good service and at a high level, but with respect I am not convinced that this draft law can achieve this objective. Therefore, I respectfully suggest that you reconsider and present a new proposal. Thank you so much for the audition.
u2020-11-03-99	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-11-03-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13480 in front of us. a proposal for an amendment to the project evaluation relationship. The first topic included in this proposal is the fact that several higher education institutions have recently been set up as foundations, and therefore, in relation to the establishment of such project evaluation relationships, persons carrying out some kind of scientific or educational activity at universities operating on foundations should not be in conflict with their participation in such project evaluation activities. I welcome this issue as long as it is really aimed at high-quality evaluation, and it is really the participation of all the professionals who can provide their knowledge for effective use. Let me say, however, that in recent years, and it is likely that Mr Secretary of State is too young to remember this, there have been a lot of analyses in recent years that have shown that the use of EU aid has been extremely ineffective in the country; it simply cannot be shown, not in nominal value added, but has increased in a fraction, so it has increased in a fraction of the nominally allocated amount the value that should have been produced in the country as a new value. They couldn't show more than 30 percent effectiveness. Germany received Marshall's aid after World War II, which was a loan, recovering a country of 50 million in Europe after World War II. And in value, the same amount arrived in our country by the end of 2019, and we can't show it on sidewalks, on a few private plants, on fountains that don't work, on a mass of square stones that no one walks through, through the cicomas of various small settlements, produced more value. [[13.40]] The use was very inefficient. Of course, I welcome it myself if it will not be the case for the future, but let the government do it, and I stress that I am not speaking to Mr State Secretary, because he cannot do this alone, so that he can at least study OLAF reports thoroughly in this efficiency-enhancing work and have legal consequences in order to repay the wasteful or not spent funds for the project in the government work. Of course, I know that left- and right-wing governments are pointing at each other in this respect, given that we have received support from the European Union not only since 2004, but even before we became EU members, and under socialist governments we have received grants from the European Union, which have been used in the same way, but to be honest, I am not interested in pointing out each other. What I am interested in is that if the government mentions the need for an effective use of European Union funds and the provision of this to professionals, it should do so in order to avoid such problems in the future, that it also deals with the past. Believe me, in society, it is a huge repulsive fact that a multitude of people see the unjustified support of our fellow citizens and organisations and the use of them in an incredibly wasteful way. It does generate social dissatisfaction. I'll give you just one example. From one of my country offices, there's a house with a typical Kádár-cube building, this is classic. It's posted in your window because there's nothing you can do, you have to put it out for five years, that the Kádár Cube received a HUF 44 million non-refundable grant from a company that is registered in this building. You can't imagine how wrong this is. It's just someone took so much to renovate their own family home. The whole family house isn't worth as much as EU funding. Now, think about it. So if, rightly and in full unity, everyone in this Parliament building who is here, a pro-government, opposition representative, were to say that the use of EU funds should be as effective as possible, and even if the government official brought forward a proposal, the initial sentence of which is about this, everyone would like this, and would welcome this, then let us do it, not only at the level of words, let us talk about it for the future, but also show that the government has legal consequences for non-fair use established by both domestic and foreign authorities. They have to walk together, they have to walk hand in hand. If this is the intention of the Ministry, then hold your hand to the prosecution or to the one who has been ordered to do so and go along the path that I, my friend, will build the future to be fair, and you will uncover the rogues of the past, because no one will believe us that our intentions are fair and upright. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] It's just words, words, words, words, we're always talking, we're just saying, and society sees very little of the beautiful principles and goals that we're drawing up. Not to mention, and let me stress this most importantly, that I do not like it very much as a Hungarian citizen, and I am not speaking as a representative now, that my country in the European Union is regularly aposted, spoken of, classified as European Union leaders, often as citizens, that my country uses the common money of the citizens of the European Union in a wasteful or inefficient way. It's insulting, it's insulting to every citizen. 'Cause how do we simple people manage? We manage to make the most of what we have and make the most of what we can as an individual. We are citizens of a country, who bring together an amazing amount of money, a minimum of HUF 23 000 billion in taxes to finance the state, and the state is loosely giving up on having consequences when the common money of European Union citizens is being used unfairly, inappropriately, overlooking it, ignoring it. I can't even quote that the Attorney General is telling us that we didn't find any evidence of a crime. Okay, then don't go that way. But if the efficiency approach in a government is a real use goal for a government, at least it can be established that it has not been used or has not been used in such a way, at least in civil law we are reclaiming it from them. If there were only two lawsuits like this, believe me, it would have such a deterrent effect on all those who use EU money, it would be amazing. You don't have to go to jail, just ask them to get it back. Let me say one more thing with regard to EU aid, because I have some time left, and because I do not understand it today. In the context of simple civil law, there is a growing contractual attitude that when a firm enters into a contract for a serious value, whether for execution or for transport, or for the production of something new, or for research and its results, they require it to be properly guaranteed either by an individual who is responsible for his entire assets if something is inappropriate or if the institution of the bank guarantee is introduced nicely. Because the bank, it's gonna enforce its rights, it's got a strong, professional, powerful organization that's gonna get the settlement money that he had to do it for. But it is, please, that, when using EU funds, there are companies who are going to disappear when the project ends, as if they were never there! What was the previous bill about? Consumer protection. What's this about? Efficient use of EU funds. So let's just say this: technically, with legal support, why don't we help them not to have negative processes, so that they can't be abused? Because not just give us the right, not just give us the law, add the rules of procedure that ensure that these principles, which we are talking about, Mr Secretary of State, fellow members of the Party of Government, fellow opposition Members and I... Many people do not believe so much that what we say here in Parliament is expressed as goals, we mean it. This is the same as the pro-government and opposition representatives. Because, after the fine words, they do not see the realization in everyday life. I think that for the remaining year and a half, the primary task of the government is to make people believe that they not only think it's better, but that it's actually better for everyone. And not to see unjust processes, not to see hypocritical activities, not to see deception, not to say anything other than what the government is talking about, not to use everyone's credulity and trust, but to feel that what we are talking about here, what the government brings here, and then takes with it in their everyday lives, is indeed the way it promises to be, as it is supposed to express its intentions. I am very glad that a young secretary of state is sitting here, I hope it is still so clear, not ruined, yet has faith, and perhaps this will give him the strength to do not only the words, but also the actions that the representatives of the government and the representatives of this House are talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-11-03-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-03-102	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I cannot help overhearing the speeches that were present, both in the speeches by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm and by Mr László Varju, when they say that it is not our money, it is a donation money, that this money was sent from Brussels. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I didn't say that!]] So I cannot help noticing when you keep saying those words in terms of EU funds. [[13.50]] Let's get one thing straight. These resources are ours, this is our money, this is not a donation, this is not some kind of support. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] What the European Union is offering us, but these resources are for the Hungarian people on various titles, for example because we have opened up our markets to Western companies. Read the analyses of Western economists or listen to the German Commissioner of the previous Commission, who said that Germany is a net beneficiary of this system. And he is not a net contributor, but a net beneficiary of this system, because western companies from Central and Eastern Europe are repatriating the multiples of this system to the profits they make here, the profits they make, and the European Union, in return, gives us the money from paying all of us, and also from paying Hungarian taxpayers. Let us forget this attitude, that this is some kind of charity, which you are regularly saying here in Parliament and at press conferences, this money belongs to the Hungarian people! Don't forget that. Thank you.
u2020-11-03-103	Thank you very much. For two minutes, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, right-hand congressman.
u2020-11-03-104	Dear Parliament, This money is for the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people, but not those who have control of this, are being lured away. I am now quoting the opinion of the Council, the Council of Ministers, on Hungary's convergence programme:, The lack of competition in the field of public procurement remains an important problem. The Commission's audit of public procurement in recent years revealed systemic deficiencies. Investigation and prosecution activities appear to be less effective in Hungary than in other Member States. There is no decisive and systematic action to pursue high-level corruption. Accountability remains a concern. There is no effective remedy against decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office which provide that there will be no criminal prosecution of a suspected offence. And this is not said by the despicable bureaucrats in Brussels, but by the Council, where the Member States are represented. So this use of money, this basically contributes to the fact that the reduction of the EU's money due to us Hungarian people, in the case of Hungary, may arise today. And that is absolutely true: the German industry, the German car manufacturers, will benefit. That is why the Government of Viktor Orbán gives them a lot of discounts, so he serves them with cheap labor, because he knows that they are more powerful than some governments. And he dares to confront the European Union not only in matters of importance but also in other matters because he knows that this powerful German industry is behind him. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga for two minutes, DK.
u2020-11-03-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For Congressman Nacsa's sake, I'll tell you a story. It happened about a week and a half ago at the general meeting in Debrecen. It turns out it's a ten-year-old project, the intermodal center, which is your obsession, otherwise, ten years ago, a hoe cut was not made, Lajos Kósa and János Lázár fought at the constitutional cost, most likely, so they fired back on this project several times, and now it's being redesigned for their period. There was a long debate in the assembly, and I asked the Fidesz mayor of Debrecen to tell me how much this has cost so far. He said that so far he has paid around HUF 700-800 million from EU funds to the client for planning, redesign, surveys. But there's no need to worry about it, Secretary of State, that's what I'm telling you, because it's European Union money, it cost us a penny. I will then ask the Member and Secretary of State how you manage the concept of EU money. 'Cause it seemed to me like it was, and then I wrote it down to myself, and the mayor said it was a magic coin. Forints 700-800 million, the Mayor said that, come on, this does not have to be a big deal for the taxpayers in Debrecen, it is not our money. Well, whose money are we talking about? Because now Congressman Nacsa is outraged by the fact that it is our money. I don't know, Congressman, are you in touch with the mayor of Debrecen? Can you explain that to him? Or would you like to report the mayor? 'Cause that's how the mayor beat up our money. Well, what are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? ! Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-107	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm will have the floor.
u2020-11-03-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, shows every sitting that he sometimes has problems understanding texts. In each of my sentences, when I spoke about EU support, I said this: we use the common money of the citizens of the European Union. So I didn't say Brussels money, and it wasn't our money, and it was his money. And I would like to draw your attention to one thing, though it is a fact that strong Western European states are benefiting very heavily from their supply activities and their economic capacities in our country in order to benefit from EU aid. However, it should not be forgotten that Hungary receives more nominally EU funding than is paid into the European common register. So, fortunately, we're beneficiaries of it, even in nominal value. And I must say that the governments of the last thirty years have been responsible, my fellow Member, for the fact that the Hungarian economy has not yet been able to create capacities with such a tremendous amount of EU use and budget support so that we do not have to use western European entrepreneurs in the construction of different welfare systems for businesses resulting from domestic use in the European Union. Well, that's the biggest problem. We still need to import services and goods. Well, what did you do for 30 years? So my problem in this House is that no one can throw anything at each other from this point of view. That's why I always say that we should start living in a quality way tomorrow and not argue about who did what and who didn't do what, but what we're doing well together tomorrow, because people are interested in that. That's why they sent us to the House. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2020-11-03-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to note, in conjunction with Mr Varga's previous point, that we are used to the fact that it is quite freely and individually used to interpret contexts. I just want to suggest that you read back the minutes of the General Assembly, and you'll find that what he was talking about was out of the question. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who has applied for a speech.
u2020-11-03-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also reply to Mr Balczó with a quote: Hungary is making good use of EU funds. Use EU funds for the well-being of people. You know, Congressman, who said that? German Chancellor Angela Merkel said that. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Hungary is using EU funds for people's well-being. That's what Angela Merkel said at her press conference in Sopron. I can quote you. However, the use of EU funds here is regularly criticised in the Parliament by the left. Where were these criticisms, Mr Balczó, honourable Congresswoman Varga-Damm, when between 2007 and 2010, halfway through the six-year planning cycle, they were able to use 10 percent? Ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Development, he's sitting right next to you. They were able to use 10 percent of the money, and there was more than 50 percent of the money spent incorrectly, the number of applications. Over 50 percent of the money was spent illegally! This was then established by the European Union. This system had to be improved, made more transparent, made more effective in 2010 when we took over governance, because simply what happened between 2007 and 2010 using EU funds was everything but transparent, inefficient, not clean. So where were all these great reviews? And since then Hungary has been performing in excess of 100 percent on this issue, in terms of the amount of money called, in terms of the number of applications, and also in terms of efficiency. Of course, reports have also been regularly made in Brussels that we have constantly increased the transparency of these proposals, the transparency of the decision-making process. So these accusations you're making, they don't hold up. They would have stood their ground before 2010, then we wouldn't have heard these accusations. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next speaker Mr László Varju, DK. [[14.00]]
u2020-11-03-114	Thank you very much. Dear House, I think that if we can save time basically by accepting what Congresswoman Varga-Damm said, and we do not need to repeat that Hungary does need to make effective use of the European Union's resources from there. But I do not want to argue about it, although I am now involved in a debate that I have to discuss in the second round, but in the first instance, if we are talking about our own money, and the presentation is about how people, government employees, involved in the use of it, are acting, what kind of legal relationship they are in, we should be even more observant about what these people are doing. So if we're talking about our own money, I could say even more, if it's our own money, then it's important that we pay close attention, if it's someone else's money's money, and even more so, because we weren't left with the wrong use of it in this way. If you would like to quote someone later, I would also like to suggest a sentence to your attention that Hungary is making good use of EU funds for some people, and then you can use this quote. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no such quote!]] And as for the past, honourable Member, I think that you have misremembered the experience of the first three years of European Union resource use, and now I am very delicate, I am moderate, and I am not saying that you are wrong, and I am not saying that you are lying consciously because you want to make it seem as you say it is. It's not like that. So I think that you should feel free to look into it, the statements by the European authorities prove that it has otherwise been used at an appropriate pace. The next part of the story is that you didn't like the fact that this happened quickly enough, so the pre-financing system was reset by raising the advance payment to a high level, virtually after-financing and pre-financing. Therefore, their call has increased, but the risks of this have appeared in the system that is here. Yes, this has become a risk of corruption, and in order to avoid that, it would have been necessary that such a system, which is about public project evaluation status, would function effectively, but at the moment there is no evidence of that. We know that when it was launched, the subject of this proposal was immediately criticised by the European Commission at the moment of its launch. Not only because the project culture is not sufficiently advanced, and this should be done more by Hungary and even by the region, but also because there are shortcomings in medium-term budget planning, project evaluation, selection, implementation and procurement that clearly identified significant cost overruns as common for public projects. It's not just a question of qualification, it's a question of qualification. You know very well that there are significant cost overruns for a number of projects that have low standards and, by the way, all that is happening refers to corruption. That is why it would be justified to have an institution, from the point of view of the public project reviewers of the law, or by them, to have proper control, but you use it as such a screen, and there is nothing really going on behind it. There is no control over these people, which would otherwise ensure that these resources, public resources, our common money, are properly used. Therefore, I think that you continue and could not convince me that it would be worth supporting this law, that if you read the OLAF report, you will gain experience that this law is not enough to solve such problems in Hungary, as regards the efficiency of resource use. Unfortunately, this law doesn't solve it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-115	Thank you, Congressman Varju. For two minutes, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, right-hand congressman.
u2020-11-03-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just asking Lőrinc Nacsa, which of my qualities between 2007 and 2010 indicates that I had to act because of the misuse of EU funds by the previous government. In 2006 I ceased to be a member of the capital, where I was in opposition to the MSZP-SZDSZ; in 2010, I became a Member of Parliament, but I told my wife several times that these uses were very inappropriate, but I could not get to the press with this perception. The other is that you consider Angela Merkel an oracle. If he says that this has been used for the well-being of the Hungarian people, then it is so. Then it is not the standard that the cheap labour force is one of the most tempting for German car manufacturers to come to Hungary, and if it is not covered from home, then cheap labour comes from Ukraine and elsewhere. And you're telling me that if Angela Merkel believes that this is for prosperity... why do you say that Hungary is using it well? 'Cause that's where the situation turned. It's not the government that makes you an economically powerful oligarch. It's the other way around! There these big, strong economic companies are such that the government is seeking their favor, and Angela Merkel at this meeting in Sopron was important to signal this, and it was a very good message from Angela Merkel to these big companies, for whom, I repeat, in reverse position, she wants her recognition for her own political interests. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-117	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Szabolcs Ágostházy, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-03-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first part of the debate, I was under the impression that we would be able to hold a substantive debate; including those points that clearly show to me that some Members who spoke did not read the proposal that was being discussed, placed the debate in a much broader context. I would also be happy to discuss these elements with you, but I would not abuse the framework of the general debate. So I would just like to respond to the specific questions that have been raised, which are consistent with the proposal. Mr László Szakács, although I think he may be present at the Commission debate now, because he is no longer here, I would still like to respond to his thoughts. He said that if there is capacity and efficiency that we constantly refer to, then why do we need this law? I think it is precisely to deal with the state's capacity properly. Why don't we use our institutional system for project evaluations like this? I think it is precisely because with this system of institutions, this system of public project evaluation, we are able to make professional decisions without State influence. This is the way to ensure that professional evaluations of projects are carried out as quickly as possible. At a later moment, Congressman Varju proposed to us the introduction of electronic draw for a Slovak sample. I mean, this is the practice in Hungary. We don't know who the project evaluators are, and we don't know who they are. This is in the interest of society, and of those who might not trust the government, I hope that this will provide them with sufficient guarantees, it is also in the interest of those involved in the project evaluation, because applicants do not even know who they should put pressure on. [[14.10]] I think that this system we set up three years ago is a sufficiently clean and prudent system. With regard to mass applications, I would just like to point out that the solution that we are currently applying is a broad question: we currently have more than 1700 public project evaluators. This is to ensure that people with the necessary expertise for each sector can be at the disposal of the managing authorities, the public authorities where the decision-making burden is high. If we were to develop these capacities per managing authority, it would be an incredibly expensive system, which is not in the interest of the domestic or EU budget. The method that currently works is particularly cheap, and not because the work of these project evaluators would be underfunded, currently receives 45 thousand gross neighborhood remunerations in HUF for a project valuer. This means that the 86,000 applications so far have cost the Hungarian budget about HUF 4 billion. Anyone show me a similar cost-effective evaluation system. I stress that neither the European Commission nor Hungarian actors can substantially attack the operation of this system. They refer to the public project evaluation system as previously unthinkable regulation, and they say that we tailor and sew regulation in a sufnituning way. It is not that, it is that we have a well-functioning system, it has worked, and we are extending it to the next funding period. What works well, we keep it, we don't have to change it. The further changes that exist in the legislation: we are dealing with further process acceleration measures, such as electronicizing measures, and we are responding to changes in certain legal relationships. If I recall correctly, Andrea Varga-Damm, in her absence, had a suggestion that we were not just thinking of the experts and highly qualified colleagues of universities transferred to the foundation. Of course not. As I have already said in my opening speech, it is about the fact that the teachers of these universities have fallen out of the potential circle because of their change of legal relationship, whom we can ask as experts. It is simply that we also provide the opportunity available to other state universities for this university circle. Comments were received on the possible wiretapping of public project evaluators. The reason why I would not open this question in substance is because, when it comes to the control effectiveness of national security services, I am not competent, it is indeed possible for the committee to discuss this in the event of such an initiative. At the same time, I think that the suggestion is implied that state officials who are able to significantly influence the decision to apply should not be under national security control, I think that this is an absurdity, and it is in the interest of all of us... I can be under such observation at any time, I do not object, I accept that this involves my work, and that it serves a common sense of security and confidence in the government. I welcome the desire to engage in dialogue with the Government on the effectiveness of the current system, which is what Parliament's debate system is for. I suggest that this be brought up in a detailed debate. If there is a need for this and it is placed on the agenda of any committee, we will, of course, be available at any time from the Ministry. The debate must only be initiated, and we will be partners in this. Thank God, I can also say that this is one of the easiest areas of debate, even within EU funds. In the course of the debate, we have opened up questions that are not at all related to the present presentation, but the Hungarian practice and the Hungarian government position are particularly good and prudent on all issues. Therefore, I would also like to suggest to Members with great respect that, if criticism of the institutional system is expressed or some of the calls for proposals are criticised, they should not refer primarily to press announcements, or to criticisms in Brussels, which, according to our observation, are based to a significant extent on domestic press releases. These are opinions on subjective findings that could seriously harm the belief in the Hungarian financial institution system, which is in neither of our interests. If there are irregularities, there are abuses, there will be a notification, we will investigate them all, we will use the possible legal instruments. If I have to, I'll be at your disposal in cases like this. By the way, I've recently become Secretary of State, but I've been working for the government, and I can see the government's efforts in this area. And I think that, in the context of interpretation in the press, reality is significantly better. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Dr. Ádám Steinmetz.]] There was a claim that the Prime Minister's Office would reach over the governing authorities and influence decisions. I strongly reject that. I know the practice of the Prime Minister's Office, I know the tendering system, we wouldn't be legally able to intervene, and technically we wouldn't be able to intervene, not to say that there is no intention of doing so. One guarantee for this is, for example, a public project evaluation relationship. These are objective decision-making mechanisms based on a predefined assessment criterion. Anyone claiming to be involved in decisions by any government body also questions, among other things, the opinion of the EUTAF, the DG Auditing of European Grants, who say that the current system of managing authorities, although there is always room for further development in its elements, is effective and works well. So the unsubstantiated accusations in order to preserve the dignity of this House, although this is not my job, of course, but I suggest that we put these out of the debate. They refer to a significant enlargement to extend the expertise of those involved in the public project evaluation. This is not the case, we want to keep this capacity at a level, we see no reason for further enlargement. They call attention to corruption. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if you read the law that is already in force, which we would like to apply in the next seven years, this is all about keeping the risk of corruption as far away from EU funds as possible. It is proposed that we reconsider the motion submitted. With all due respect, we have rethought and maintained it, and we ask the House to support it in the detailed debate and then in the final vote. I would like to respond to the comments made by Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea and to some of the comments made during the two-minute period. I had a plan to bring up the opinion of Chancellor Merkel, but I note that the opinion of the Chancellor of the German State is considered to be an opinion under industrial influence. I would not do that; I consider Germany to be much more than that, and I consider the words made by the Chancellor to be much more objective. But if we do not believe political opinions, I would refer to the 2018 competitiveness ranking of the World Economic Forum, which was published on the situation of emerging economies. In particular, this is the way it is said that six European economies are among the top ten in the ranking of emerging economies. These are Lithuania, Hungary, Latvia, Poland, Croatia and Romania. These economies are particularly good in terms of growth and development as members of the EU. It is inclusive of both the increase in the median life-style and the decline in wealth inequality. Although I have now highlighted the World Economic Forum's findings on six European countries, it is said, on the basis of the global trend of emerging economies, that Hungary is second in this respect. It is possible to hold political debates, but it is not the bodies under the influence of the government that say these excellent and I think it is very honorable, but that there are real achievements behind it. I would not break the framework of the general debate any longer, and we will face a detailed debate in order to look at these. I would like to make one final comment on the financial debate on the net benefit of the Core countries, i.e. Germany in particular, which Günther Oettinger explained: I would accept it as truth. [[14.20]] The Polish Ministry of Economy had, if I remember correctly, a research three years ago, when they said that every Central Europe was given eighty cents of a euro grant to migrate back to the core countries. I think that if we look at GDP growth in individual regions and accept the statement that I stress once again not we as the Hungarian government are saying, then we can conclude that this is a mutually beneficial business on roughly equal terms, a business agreement that we get through the EU funds, and, as Congressman Nacsa said, obviously, this has a compensation on the side of the opening up of our national economy. So this is a mutually beneficial business, and if we compare it with what growth indicators can be achieved by which country, then we see that we are better on the competitiveness side and on the growth potential side, using these financial opportunities much more efficiently than the core countries. And Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, despite my relative youth, may have been trying to avoid the word naivety and asked for my faith. I have faith now, and I have faith in the sincere abilities and good faith of the government. That's my experience and that's my belief. If we go further in this debate, I will be available even at Commission level. Thank you very much for your attention and the opportunity for the President to comment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-119	Thank you very much for the closing of the debate by Mr Szabolcs Imre Ágostházy. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on services and support for employment and the surveillance of employment will follow up until closure. Government referral T/13481. The information submitted by the State Audit Office is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-03-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome, everyone, to our debate opening meeting today. I can confirm that the title of the bill is on services and support for employment and on the supervision of employment, so this is the bill. I thought this was important because the word "employment" is actually a calling word, and in many cases we can form opinions on it in such a wide range of relationships, which is sometimes suitable to distract attention from the essential ideas. Of course, this does not mean that anyone's opinion should be limited on this subject, since each sentence makes us richer, but it is basically a special, professional law. Well, the purpose of the bill before you is quite clear, the two areas of perhaps the most important concern in the world of work, the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed, and the law on labour control, which must obviously result in a modern, efficient, transparent result adapted to labour market challenges. I also have to advance the fact that the two laws are quite legal, since they were adopted almost 30 years ago. When you think about what has changed in the labour market in the last thirty years, in Hungarian or international terms, I think that we can clearly nod together that it was time to touch it. Not only is it thirty years, but three years or even three months in the field of employment a very long time, and this is a bright witness, let us say, the last three or six months that employment has had to experience. The aim of the law, as I have said, is absolutely clear: to establish a single sectoral regulation to promote employment and control the retention of employment rules. The economic situation in the wake of the Covid-19 epidemic has also highlighted that this is what I have just pointed out in parentheses that the protection of jobs is a priority and that regulation is therefore needed that can respond even more effectively to the challenges of the economic environment and the labour market. Since the legislative proposal before us sets out only frameworks, I would like to emphasise this, so that we can create an even more dynamic and simpler support system in the form of detailed rules at the level of the government regulation, as well as a more modern and effective control system. As I said, and I confirm, so we are discussing frameworks now. We also want to involve employees' and employers' interest representatives in the drafting of the Government Decree, as we also want to examine their proposals, and we believe that it is important to have them in the drafting and drafting of the detailed rules, in order to achieve the most effective consensus. The aim of the bill is to create two areas that are closely linked to employment, namely employment promotion services and subsidies, as well as rules on the supervision of employment in a uniform structure. A unified structure: I think that anyone who works with this law, whether as a professional or as an example of his own life, how and how he is shaping his destiny, will willingly sign that the unified structure is clearly a help in this respect as well. With your permission, I would first like to share some thoughts on major innovations in employment-enhancing services and support. The main novelty of employment aid is that the system of granting aid is changing and becoming a three-tier system. This does not need to be alarmed, and I believe it will make the current regulation simpler. On the basis of the proposal, at the first level of the aid, the public employment body will provide aid without weighing in order to facilitate the employment of severely disadvantaged workers, so that people who have unfortunately been not regularly employed for at least 24 months would be highly supported. In addition, priority should be given to those who have not been regularly employed for at least 12 months, and who are also disadvantaged from the point of view of entering the labour market, which is likely to be linked, for example, to young people aged 15-24 years, to those with low education or up to 50 years of age. At this level, the public employment body may also provide support at this level in order to avoid group depopulation or mitigate its adverse consequences, in order to create the possibility of rapid intervention. At the second level of the aid, the public employment body may, in its discretion, provide support to facilitate the employment of disadvantaged workers. At the third level, the Minister responsible for employment policy can provide support and assistance under a labour market programme, the target group of which is determined by the specific call for proposals. As regards grants, the fact that the employer who is supported or wants to be supported can be better monitored for compliance with labour and safety rules is a turning point compared to the rules in force, and a significant need has also been made for this. As a result of the change in the procedural methodology linked to the granting of the aid, we would like to target the product expected as a result of the rapid, simplified and less administrative decision making in the granting of employment aid. The proposal sets out a framework, as I have said, for employment promotion services. Detailed conditions for the types of services and access to services will be regulated at government regulation level. As a general rule, the services are provided by the public employment body. [[14.30]] The other main line of the law is the rules governing the supervision of employment. With regard to labour control, the aim of the bill is to establish guarantee frameworks, which can be filled with content by regulation at government regulation level, i.e. the methodology returns here as well. We therefore expect a more modern, efficient and flexible system to be put in place here as well. It is important to point out that the bill provides a new definition of the labour control activity by means of a new definition of employment supervision. This new approach also shows that the legislation contained in the proposal is intended to create public supervision of employment that can also control the legitimate use of employment aid and put on a new footing the legal consequences of the most serious breach of labour law and undeclared employment. The legislative proposal extends the powers of the employment supervisory authority to monitor the minimum requirements for employment legislation. Some basic things should be considered minimum requirements. For the purposes of the application of the law, the provisions of employment law from which the parties cannot derogate, including in cases where the parties deviate from the otherwise permissible rule in an infringement manner. Typically, minimum standards include, for example, mandatory provisions on legal employment of minors, notification of employment or statutory hours of work, rest periods, their registration or wages and the issue and clearance of certificates. I think that whoever was in employment has always treated these issues as a priority. In addition to the legal consequences that have already been applied, an important new powers of action will be conferred on the employment monitoring authority. In the case of undeclared employment, an infringement of less than one month shall be terminated by the employment supervisory authority by establishing the existence of an employment relationship retroactively for at least one month from the start of the infringement and by requiring the employer to carry out the tax administration's notification accordingly. This measure has two consequences. On the one hand, the worker's relationship will be settled for at least one month, and this is obviously important. This entitles you to use social security services and extends the period of service on which pensions are calculated. Of course, the current epidemic period has also made it particularly important for a wider range of workers, and everyone, to have health insurance rights, which are essential for their longer-term health preservation. Of course, it also provides an opportunity to eliminate administrative errors that may be completely well-intentioned. On the other hand, the employer has a duty to pay contributions and taxes in compliance with the notification obligation, which clearly results in budgetary revenue. In addition to this legal consequence, the proposal also maintains the application of sanctions so far in the hope that this regulatory solution is likely to have more deterrent effect. Therefore, the application of the sanctions so far will, of course, remain in place. The competitive disadvantage of legally employed companies can be eliminated by the planned amendment, as those who are able to do business at the expense of the budget and the employee may lose otherwise unfair benefits from undeclared employment. Thus, the new employment monitoring legislation also opts for a flexible, rapid procedure and aims at whitening the economy, notably by effectively reducing undeclared employment. As you can see, the government's aim is, therefore, to establish a modern, efficient, transparent sector regulation adapted to the challenges of the labour market, in line with daily challenges, by adopting the new law. Dear Parliament, In the light of what has been said, I would ask you to continue this debate and then, in the light of the proposals, to support this proposal, this bill, in which I am really counting on you, and then, in addition to this set of rules, we will be able to ensure the most effective and safe, legally and naturally safe employment possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-03-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-03-122	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, It is known to all of us that the coronal virus epidemic has posed an unprecedented challenge for our country recently, and once the second wave of the epidemic has arrived, we are facing new trials. In recent months, the government has taken extraordinary measures to protect people's lives, the economy, jobs and families. It is true that this crisis has hit us in a more stable economy than in 2008, thanks to the economic policy of recent years and the timely economic protection measures taken. If we look at these economic protection measures in Veszprém County, we can see that 600 companies have applied for reduced working time support for 11 811 employees with a subsidy of HUF 1 billion 765 million. Or we can mention the job-creating wage support, which 400 companies requested for 1775 employees with HUF 2 billion of HUF 71 million. The economic situation has made us even more aware that it is essential for labour market players to retain, support and create jobs that provide legal employment as widely as possible. The aim of the bill before us is to strengthen the support of employers, workers and job seekers, and to respond more quickly to the needs of the labour market by creating a new regulatory environment at legislative level. The bill supports the creation of new jobs and facilitates the creation of jobseekers and their training in employment. The government has placed considerable emphasis on the provision of employment aid over the past nearly a decade. Without the need for completeness, if only four forms of support with a higher number of people are considered to support employment-enhancing training, wage support, support for job-seekers to become entrepreneurs and labour costs support figures, it is clear that while in 2010 labour market subsidies were used by 52 to 65 thousand people on a quarterly basis, 70 to 105 thousand people in 2019 and 60 to 104 thousand people in the first and third quarters of 2020, i.e. nearly the same number of people in 2019 and 2020. It is clear from these figures that, thanks to the measures taken by the government, employment subsidies still affect a wide range of people, since, at the time of the second wave of the epidemic, economic policy is the main task of preserving the functioning of the Hungarian economy, protecting jobs and supporting businesses, because without strong national businesses there is no strong national economy. As a result of the bill, the system of granting aid will be transformed, turned into a three-tier system, and as a result it will be possible to create a rapid, simplified and small administrative procedure for granting aid and decision-making. At the same time, the bill sets the rules on the supervision of employment on a new basis in order to protect workers. On the basis of the proposal, the employment authority may require the employer to notify the employer for at least one month in the case of undeclared employment. This measure is particularly beneficial for those who live in work, as it settles their legal relationship, thus becoming eligible for social security benefits and increasing the length of their periods of service required for retirement. By renewing the regulation of labour control and making it more flexible, the labour control framework could become more modern, which could be a milestone in increasing the efficiency of the labour authority. [[14.40]] Dear fellow Members, The bill before us will lead to a more dynamic and simpler support system in the employment area, while creating a more modern and effective control system. In addition to promoting a flexible, rapid procedure, the new employment surveillance regulation aims at whitening the economy by effectively reducing undeclared work. The government and the Fidesz fraction have always been committed to supporting businesses, protecting jobs, creating new jobs and promoting legitimate employment, especially for the past period. The commitment to these measures is clear evidence not only of the measures introduced in recent years, such as support for labour costs in the framework of the economic protection action plan, wage support, more flexible work organisation, tax relief, but also of the replacement of the work-based society by the work-based society. In view of this, the bill is supported by the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-123	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2020-11-03-124	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Employment Services Act entered into force on 1 March 1991 after the change of regime. Obviously, this was not necessary before because there was no formal unemployment. There was unemployment, unemployment within the gate, and unemployment out of the gate, the dangerous non-worker was branded. The obvious aim of the aid provided by the law at the time is still true today: to improve the chances of job seekers or those in employment and to promote job retention, and thus to include labour market training, retraining, support for the entrepreneurialisation of the unemployed, support for the employment of long-term unemployed, public employment, job creation and support for it, support for part-time employment and early retirement. We are now discussing a new framework law, which is, of course, also about the supervision of employment, and let me list the objectives to be supported by the framework law. The basic aim of the proposal is to speed up processes, procedures, rationalise, reduce administrative burden, simplify the submission of support needs and facilitate access to employment, job search and retention. A further objective is to eliminate the economic benefits of breaching employment, to ensure public supervision of employment rules and to ensure that the rights of employees are respected, and, obviously, to create a real competitive position along with these rules. These are objectives to be supported, but a number of issues and criticisms can be formulated. In order not to do this as an opposition representative, I should like to bring my own criticism, and therefore I would like to present it from a position available to everyone on the website of the LIGA Trade Unions. The proposal presented represents a major change in labour management, and the social partners needed more time to exercise appropriate care. As the regulation is a framework, it cannot be established how the transformation takes place. Trade unions do not wish to be present as followers, but want to participate in the preparation process. An impact assessment does not belong to this law, but it is a fundamental part of the legislation. Since a number of issues have been raised in relation to controls, procedural rules and sanctions, the social partners should also have been informed of the planned content of government regulations, involved in the preparatory phase, and this is particularly true of the Members of Parliament. The Secretary of State has repeatedly stressed that this is a framework law. Indeed, it is a framework law, so much the framework law, that it cannot be seen here in many respects, how this will be implemented in practice. This means that when we support this, it will be a blank check. You may involve the social partners prior to the regulation, but this is beyond the possibility for a Member of Parliament to know in more detail what real, real practical action will follow behind the framework law. So the emphasis on this is that it is a framework law, in this case it carries a negative content for me in a sense because we do not know how it will be implemented in reality. The general justification of the law is right at the beginning that the economic situation resulting from the Covid-19 epidemic has shown that the protection of jobs is of paramount importance and that regulation is therefore necessary to respond even more effectively to the challenges of the economic environment and the labour market. If, for this law defining the procedure, we say that this will help in the Covid-19 situation, which has evolved, then allow me to expand my opinion in this direction, too, on this proposal. What was I supposed to do? The economic security fund created during the epidemic has reportedly flown over 1900 billion forints. We might think that this has all gone to crisis management measures, because the government stresses this amount. However, we can learn in several circles that this has been transferred here and there to ordinary budget tasks, which are the support of various ministries, state-owned companies or important projects for the government Budapest-Belgrád railway line, stadium building, hunting exhibition, space research. So, if we have turned from the Economic Protection Fund to this, this also indicates that yes, much more should or should have been spent on spending for the right purpose and efficiency. The goal was to get the money to places that would spin back into the economy, which would have had a real multiplier effect. Obviously, there are mostly economic professionals sitting here, and I'm not, so I'm not the one who needs to be the one to light up the economy in a crisis and recession when people don't have money, whether the government leaves more money with people, for example, doesn't collect certain taxes, or actually gives something in the form of subsidies. If you choose this, the more money you give to the economy, the more money you spend, the more you spend, the more you spend, the more you spend, the more you spend in the private sector, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it, the more you do it. At the beginning of April, the government reported that the so-called shortened working time support programme, which was discussed here in several stages and partly modified by the government, would affect around one million workers. According to one of Mihály Varga's presentations, 207 325 people received this, so this program did not meet the original goal. Let me give you two examples of what two instruments, for example, would have been feasible, with a certain amount of more money than the people, the solvent demand and the stimulus of the economy. To increase the family allowance, this would have been in line with the government's family-friendly policy and would have helped the poorer families most in need, because half of the Hungarian children are raised in the bottom three income tenths of society. [[14.50]] If this layer receives support, increased family allowance, it will certainly not put it aside, but spend it, and the multiplier effect will prevail. Here, let me make a comment in parentheses. After the second child in Hungary, the family allowance is 13 300 HUF. Large family members and well-earned earners are mainly supported by the government. So once again, after the second child whose commitment would be very important, the family allowance is 13 300 HUF, this is 40,000 HUF in Poland. The other area is that all opposition parties have demanded from the government to increase unemployment benefits, or, if you like, the length of the job search support, i.e. the length of employment support, and instead of three months, which is the lowest time at European level for six months or nine months. By the way, a summary of all these figures is that we have heard from Viktor Orbán that as many jobs go away, we will create so much. I quote the data of the National Employment Service: September 2019, 243,356 registered, September 2020, 323,408, i.e. 80,052. I said all this because in the first part of the general justification, the Covid-19 epidemic was mentioned, indicating that this law would also help. I summarized the means that Jobbik believed could have really helped in this situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-125	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-03-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government took over a poor country with extremely unfavourable employment data, with an amazing austerity, where more than one million people were forced to humiliate unemployment benefits instead of living decently. Over the last decade, the Fidesz-KDNP government has introduced a work-based approach, a work-based society, has put job creation at the heart of its economic policy, and has taken a number of measures to stimulate significant labour market activity. As Viktor Orbán said, if there is work, there is everything. We remember that in 2008 Hungary had an employment rate of 56.4 percent, which was the lowest in Europe at that time. In the last year, however, this figure was 71.1 percent, which exceeded the European Union average. However, it is also important to mention the unemployment rate, which was well above the EU average in 2008, as it was above 11 per cent, while in 2019 it was 3.4 per cent, which is one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union. As a result of this work-based economic policy, the number of people employed has risen to an unprecedented level by the end of last year since the change of regime, which has already exceeded 4.5 million people. Moreover, employment growth has grown significantly in recent years by reducing the number of public workers and public sector workers, as more and more people have found work in the primary labour market in the competitive sector. However, thanks to the economic success of recent years, the investment promotion system has not only had to focus on the number of new jobs created by the new investment, but also on the added value and innovation potential of jobs. However, the economic downturn and difficulties that have arisen as a result of the corona virus epidemic are challenging the economy, as in Hungary, worldwide. My fellow Member, Péter Ovádi, spoke about the means by which the government is dealing with this and how the difference between the previous left-wing crisis management and the current national Christian Democratic crisis management is apparent. While in 2008-2009 the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-tandem raised taxes, squeezed, devastated families, made many people unemployed and pushed to the edge of the street, in 2020, in the current crisis, we see that the Fidesz-KDNP government encourages investments, expands family support, leads back to the 13th month pension, and constantly protects Hungarian jobs with various tools, job protection and job retention support. The aim of the bill before us is to provide further effective assistance in terms of job creation and the whitening of the economy. To this end, the bill also includes additional employment-enhancing legislation and the establishment of an effective labour control system. The aim of the bill is to set up modern, effective, transparent frameworks for more intensive support for employers, workers and job seekers, as far as possible in line with labour market needs. The system to be put in place by the proposal is a priority for severely disadvantaged workers, who provide the necessary support without weighing in order to facilitate employment. The aim of the proposal is also to make the granting of aid much faster, simpler, more transparent and less administrative than before, because it gives twice as fast. I think that the simplification of administration, the reduction of bureaucracy, is an objective that can be greatly supported in this area as well. Another important element of the bill is to put legally employed workers and businesses legally employed by their employees in a more favourable position and to whiten the economy as much as possible. On the basis of the bill, the employment supervisory authority may require the employer to notify the employee for at least one month in the case of undeclared employment. The measure is particularly beneficial for those who live in work, as it settles their legal relationship, thus becoming eligible for social security benefits and increasing the length of their periods of service required for retirement. The aim is no less than not to provide a competitive advantage, more favourable conditions for undeclared employment for either the employee or the employer. For a moment, my fellow Member Balczó covered the family support system, of which he highlighted only one element, of course placing it in a false context. We know very well that the Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to family support. Until the last left-wing budget in 2010 exceeded HUF 1000 billion in support for families, this is already HUF 2300 billion in the 2020 budget. We can see that, even in the middle of the crisis, the government is announcing one of the greatest home-building programmes of all time. We are constantly expanding support for families, such as the family protection action plan launched last year and the family tax reduction, which allowed an incredible amount of families to live with, since 97 percent of the right holders were able to use various forms of family tax relief, as we extended it to contributions. I think we should have voted in favour of the important family support measures that have been in front of Parliament in recent years. And we will not stop on this issue, but we will bring our further family support efforts to Parliament. I ask everyone to support this bill on employment and to continue making decisions in the interests of Hungarian workers and Hungarian families. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Mr. President, thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-127	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-03-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You always have the feeling that when you read these new proposals, these rules, in which a lot of laws are being amended, are now being amended by two dozen laws, that you can basically agree with the goals, because we all have the same goal, we all have to keep as many jobs as possible, we need to create new ones, and not least, the year 2020 is a year with more challenges due to the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. We have a semester of experience behind us, and everyone has reason to expect that the majority of the governors will draw a great deal of experience from them, perhaps take over proposals from the opposition, trade unions, professional organisations, and they will come back to the proposal. [[15.00]] What makes you feel uneven is that sometimes you do say good-bye, sometimes you see that these proposals are considered, if not in that form, but somehow they appear in the law, and there is always one that I say to myself, so that the hidden legal deal that appears, and that you put someone in a position. So people are being lifted up, so to speak, who do not necessarily live on their own in this market, but now, for example, private labour market intermediaries will have access to EU funds. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But first, let's see what we agree on. It can be agreed that, in addition to the penalty, labour inspector's leeway is extended to the fact that, yes, the person who has been employed without a contract or an adequate employment relationship should have paid-up employment for at least one month or one month thereafter, and the employer can be obliged to do so by the inspector. At least he'll have social security, because you've made rules in this, too, that anyone who doesn't have social security for three months doesn't get the benefits, and he doesn't get the benefits in the E.R. anymore. At least then these rather soulless rules will be somewhat overwritten. In the case of collective redundancies, this law was also amended because of the labour market support programme. This was also included in a previous law, where it was repealed, and now it is being returned to this legislation. The truth is, you can agree with him, but he lost the charm of the new one a long time ago. It's been like this before. There's gonna be one now, but it's gonna be another law. The truth is, I don't know if that's gonna make it more transparent or not more transparent. We can also see that without impact assessments, this draft comes before us, in a way that is to be seen that one of the most important centres of the spring period, the most important economic protection plans, was the preservation of jobs. We can see that this was a success that could only be achieved in opinion, and that success in statistics could be achieved. What we see is that it was a mistake not to increase the amount of job search support or increase its duration to at least six months and at least one hundred thousand forints per month. Now we see the effect of this, that if someone lost their job this spring, it can already be seen that they have already run out of job search support. A second wave of the virus arrived, after a two-2.5 month rest period, the second wave of the virus arrived, and the same sectors, tourism, catering, tourism and entertainment all stop. Yet you are not spending the money on their watch, but your watch is not even focused on the sectors, but you are providing this amount of resources to a private sector in the labour market, a private intermediary sector, which we do not know what the point is. This will probably have to be explained much better than the way they have now elegantly missed this issue. This private labour market intermediary sector will now have access to that money, and this sector will have access to EU funds, and behind which, I can figure out who we will find who you will say: it is called a national capital bank, we call it an oligarch, so we will find one of the oligarchs behind these employment agencies, they will have access to this resource. Well, tell me, my fellow Members and State Secretary, please take an unusual part in the debate as to why they do not give the money directly to the sectors that are in trouble, tourism, hospitality, entertainment, which have stopped, where supply chains may have been broken, and the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises there are forced to employ people in part-time or to let people go. Why didn't the companies get this money directly, or why didn't the people who already lost their jobs get the money directly? You voted down our proposal on this exactly the day that this law was presented. The truth is, if I return to the point where you can agree with the goals, of course, who else would want to be, but as soon as we look at how you want to achieve these goals, at that moment, we see the unexplainable steps that we can take to know that again, I say nicely to one of the national capitalists, they will be filling their pockets. Wasn't that enough? Was it not enough that when Lőrinc Mészáros received HUF 17 billion, he dismissed 850 people with the same momentum and made life hell for 850 families when there was nowhere to be found? Lőrinc Mészáros could receive HUF 17.7 billion even when all other Hungarian entrepreneurs could receive money only if they were still employed. Now, again, money will be made by those who will transfer these people or retrain them in their private labour market. Honestly, that's very hard to agree with. Of course, that explains why there is no impact assessment. This explains why there is no proper debate with the social partners. This explains why there is no dialogue with trade unions, why there is no proper dialogue with workers' organisations. Because you are quick to put someone's economic interests in favour of some positive or just positive measures that are acceptable to many, so that they can be voted in Parliament, which we do not necessarily want to vote for. Not because we don't think about those people, and I would like to underline and stress that, not because we don't think about people whose economic downturn due to the measures caused by the virus is making their lives hell. We really want to help those companies. We really want to help them. They should directly finance the wages of those people, at least 80 percent. Every country around us gives it to those companies to keep people's jobs, to keep people's solvency, to keep their suppliers and pay chains alive, to pay for their own lives. Why don't you just give the money directly to both companies and people? It's incomprehensible, fundamentally inexplicable. Of course, I understand that they always start from the 2008 crisis management. You can always go back to what was 12 years ago. I'm gonna have to make you feel a little sad. I don't think those who lose their jobs today, or who end their 90-day job search support today, are necessarily interested in what happened 12 years ago. They're interested in what happens tomorrow and what happens the day after tomorrow, and they certainly want help from the decision makers, I think. On the other hand, we are in a different situation than we were in 2008. In 2008, there was not a breath pause where summer passed, 2 to 2.5 months, when it was safe to evaluate the effects of spring measures and provisions, it could have been calmly considered what it was worth to maintain, what it is worth to further develop, and from it to prognosis and conclusions at some level, and to prepare for what we all knew was inevitable. Of course, everyone hoped with their hearts that it wouldn't happen, but everyone knew with their brains that it would happen, and there would be a second wave of the virus, and jobs must be protected again, and people must be protected again. There are positive developments in this, but unfortunately, once again, a private sector will be involved, including a private actor who, for some reason, we know why, for a lot of money, will perform the task that we all know is not the way to do it. We should give these money directly to the people, directly to the companies. That is why we will be very curious about the regulation, Mr Secretary of State, because let's face it, if you say that this is a framework law many times, we can see that this is it, but if this framework law is filled with regulations, then we Parliament's control role is reduced, not a little, but very much. [[15.10]] Therefore, we will want to see exactly what is in these regulations, and we will obviously make the right proposals, how to build up a modern, efficient and transparent system, preserve jobs and possibly create new ones. One last thought in response to my fellow Member, Nacsa, on the family support system. Your family support system is basically based on subsidised loans and tax incentives. Now there are hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs, nearly 200,000 who are no longer receiving any income. They lost their jobs, their 90-day job search support expired, they will not be able to pay the subsidised loan, nor will they be able to avail themselves of the tax relief. I think that this is worth thinking about when it comes to keeping families financially and housing safe, it is worth listening at times to the proposals that we are making and will continue to make. The job search support should be increased for a period of at least six months, but if possible for a period of nine months, and the monthly amount of this should not be lower than 100,000 HUF! We believe that companies should be given the 80 percent of their wages directly up to HUF 180,000 so that they can pay their employees, not hold them on a ventilator, creating a new private sector, delivering them money through intermediaries. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-11-03-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-03-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard a lot in today's debate about the concept of a framework law. What does that really mean? This is a blank check, which doesn't have virtually any box, we don't know the amount that the Hungarian taxpayers will pay, and it is written with the torture of Hungarian workers or unemployed people, and we don't even know who this will actually be addressed to. We know there's something about this story that doesn't make sense. We see that governments across Europe have recognised that more intensive support for employers, workers and job seekers, a faster response to the needs of the labour market and more effective use of budgetary and EU funds has become inevitable. And we also know that we see that one of the important tasks of the state must also be added in brackets as a Hungarian citizen to help find a job, access to work, and keeping a job with free services. This could basically be a good opportunity, as everyone here has just said, and as I said, I am a framework law. The proposal provides for additional rights to those disadvantaged in the labour market when promoting employment. Please, this is a welcome thing in itself, but it is very interesting that it cannot be extracted from the proposal or from the framework law as to what additional rights these could actually represent in your view. However, the draft before us states that the public employment body will help to find jobs, access to work and adequate employment, as well as to keep a job free of charge services, as well as to ensure that employment promotion services can only be provided by organisations registered in addition to the public employment body as defined in the Government's regulation. These services can then be provided from the economic protection, employment fund or, in our case, from European Union resources, a great sport. However, it is unacceptable for us to think of the types of subsidies, such as wage subsidies, contributions and similar types of aid, and their extent are not included in the law at all. It can be seen that they want to provide huge resources to private organisations as defined by the government, obviously so that these private organizations will have control over this source, but how do you tactfully say so in the bill? it does not unfold all the details of the truth, nor does it unfold any details about it, so they are not known at all. And I'm afraid, as I noted earlier, that the dog is buried here, hidden between the lines, is the real purpose of the bill. After all, in any law you put forward, one tries to find between the lines, or else why this is important to you, because, unfortunately, neither workers nor employers are important to you, but rather their own pockets. I mean, we're talking about a lot of money here, and we know that if the government and its members smell money, please, they're incredibly resourceful, and they can do anything. The bill sets out the definition of the employment monitoring authority and the baselines for the powers of official control, by including its detailed explanation in the implementing government decree. However, it is rather strange, in fact, it is unacceptable to me that the name of the authority, its main operating rules, such as who appoints its leader, how it will report to the Parliament on its annual activities in person or in writing, is not regulated by the law in this case. I understand, we understand that, on the basis of the proposal, the official control of employment can only take place on its own initiative and, for example, the controlled self cannot request this control itself. However, the proposal lacks a record and statement that the authority is obliged to check that it does not interfere more than necessary and that workers are withdrawn from their duties only for a short period of time. We can remember that we can now see that the party's fist is sometimes the authority. Once in a while, they're invading someone, some company, obviously with the intention of hurting him, maybe the manager should decide to sell this company to avoid further losses, and this system works perfectly. However, this is unacceptable. Labour fines in this form seem to be a harsh threat rather than an established legal framework, as the proposal also does not specify the specific offences in the labour market and certainly does not indicate the items of the fine. Technically, it's a series of guesses, and they write as much as they think they can on a fine. Unfortunately, the economic and social changes that have taken place in recent years, especially the pandemic, have had a dramatic impact on the world of work. That's pretty much what everybody feels. All these changes have had a negative impact on traditionally safe and decent labour relations. Despite the efforts of the past period, undeclared work and the phenomenon of the shadow economy are also causing serious problems in our country. While the shadow economy hinders the development of society, undeclared work is likely to create a new layer of peripheral workers in financial and social difficulties. Since this very important group has neither a real declared income nor social security, it will certainly be difficult for undeclared workers to plan family and future, as this situation hinders the provision of reserves on the one hand and the fulfilment of basic needs such as solving housing. And indeed, these people will not be able to contribute to social security systems, so they cannot benefit entirely from them and generally receive lower wages in the sector. We can see that, for example, those who are not registered will slowly not be able to get to the hospital and will be standing on the side of the road unattended. This could pose a threat not only to individuals but also to the wages of notified workers, who will have to compete with lower salaries and black incomes paid in their pockets. [[15.20]] Of course, the Democratic Coalition also agrees with the whitening of the black and grey economy and the undeclared [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Bitcoin...]] measures necessary to protect workers from increased labour law. However, in our view, the bill does not result in more effective labour control than it currently does, nor does it actually provide real help to job seekers. If the government were not unable to escape to such additional actions, it would develop an effective and concrete support programme to protect jobs, help businesses, and increase the duration of the job search allowance for the unemployed from the current 3 months to at least 9 months and increase the amount by at least 50 percent. The government's attention may have been aroused, otherwise, recently, the news is that there's been a job seeker who's been waiting 80 days for him to receive unemployment benefits. Another job seeker waited almost three months for the first payment; he did not receive the next one, as it turned out, because he did not appear in the office personally. And when he went in, they told him it was sorry, but the administrator wasn't in. Due to the stress of the labour centres and the personnel of government agencies, people will be left unattended for months, and we can list and bring up many examples of this. The bill does not affect this problem at all and therefore does not remedy it. We are concerned that the proposal refers the regulation of several actual and relevant issues to a level of government regulation; it does not specify the types and extent of aid that can be granted, as I have just stated, but, by no means, the name and main operating rules of the Authority. Thus, this is nothing more than a Bianko bill, which the government will subsequently shape at the level of regulation as it wishes, as it pleases, and in this case Parliament's control will not prevail. And allow me to make a personal comment on this. I also personally find it shocking that the militaryist tendency of the Prime Minister to speak out of the bill before us, that we are talking about military order here, that we are talking about authority, that we are talking about punishments, that this system should not punish but serve. Just as the government shouldn't be thinking about punishment, it should be thinking about how it makes people's lives better, how it provides a framework that makes people's lives better. Well, that's what we're missing from this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-131	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill on services and support for employment, as well as employment surveillance, submitted by the government, is now being discussed. In previous years, the overall and global economic activity in Hungary has also shown its impact: the economy has increased, wages have increased and employment has also increased. Meanwhile, the government has clearly preferred employers to employers, and unfortunately, we see that the protection of workers is completely out of the way. We remember precisely the laws that sometimes put workers in a very vulnerable position. Only now there is a pandemic, we are also in the middle of it; the economic recovery is over; the Hungarian miracle has, of course, lasted so long. When real problems and problems arise, the government is in most areas, trying to shift responsibility to local governments and to Hungarian citizens themselves. However, in certain areas, he is forced to act, and, thanks to God, this is the zeroth step of this action, and I would not even call it a first step, because, as Mr. State Secretary said, it is a framework law, and we know practically nothing about the details in the world. In recent months, at the level of communication, the state has weakened the impact of the virus on employment. Orbán confidently stated in early April that we will create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. And in September, also satisfied, he said that this commitment had been fulfilled. I ask you, Prime Minister, to read KSH data, because they show that companies with more than five employees worked 60 thousand less in August than in January, and that in September the number of domestic employees decreased by another 32 thousand compared to August. And according to Muller Cecília, and I think he's right about that, the plague is still on its way. I must also add that no one has looked at the situation of companies with fewer than five employees, small businesses, which are in a much more vulnerable situation, much less tolerate the consequences of the economic crisis, so I think it is clear that there are very big problems with employment in our country. Overall, I think it must be said in any way that the submission of the bill is welcome that the government has finally noticed that there are workers in this country; it has noticed that there are problems and that employment needs to be helped. Unfortunately, I have to add that the government considers these problems late and with very little efficiency on the basis of the content of the law; and it must be added, as it does not take Hungarian parliamentarianism seriously, so that only the text of the government decrees will reveal what this law is worth. The government's priority is to promote legal employment, further whitening of the economy, announced Sándor Bodó, Minister of State for Employment Policy at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology in relation to the bill. Accordingly, employers will at last be obliged to notify their illegally employed employees retroactively for at least one month at the level of the minimum wage at the NAV. I think that this is a huge step at the same time, that someone has finally noticed this, and on the other hand I must say, honourable MPs, that this is extremely small. Imagine the situation in which the company, abusing its dominant position, practically forces the worker to do black or grey work, and then comes the labour inspection and makes the notification mandatory for a month to the minimum wage. Yes, that's a step forward, because it hasn't been, but let's face it... Let's just assume that it's an imaginary case that an employer like this, let's say, employed gray or black for eight years. This employee's pension contribution, his health insurance, has been lost for eight years, and unfortunately, this law, as we see it now, does not treat it at all. We are pleased that the government finally recognises that black work is still a big problem in Hungary. It's fantastic that they want to settle the relationship between the people of work. This measure will be welcomed by many workers, who have been humiliatingly exploited and employed black for many years. The question is, why did the government wait so long? The LMP has put forward several amendments to strengthen supervision at budget negotiations. You, without exception, have been rejected every time, and the reason for that, I think, is that you will have to justify it someday. Another main objective of the bill is to reduce administrative burdens, simplify the submission of support needs and to facilitate access to work, job search and maintenance and access to skilled work. I don't think there's any need to explain this, it's the right thing to do. However, I do not think that I can go without saying the fact that 2020 is the year of the epidemic. [[15.30]] Practically this year, the epidemic and all its effects, economic impacts, have become part of our daily lives. Businesses in several sectors were destroyed in almost days, weeks, and as a result, when the epidemic began, many lost their jobs. LMP has already indicated that if the government does not take immediate and comprehensive, cross-sectoral and radical steps, even more will lose their jobs. We have already demanded that the government give priority to Hungarian SMEs against the multinationals by injection of money, eased loans, reduction of contributions, we have requested, among other things, the introduction of wage subsidies, we have proposed the payment of the absentee fee for those workers who must stay at home with their children, and last but not least, the increase and extension of the amount of unemployment allowance paid for a cruelly short period. However, the government has been delayed for a very long time by taking the right steps, despite the fact that Gergely Gulyás said already in March that they were expecting hundreds of thousands of unemployment, the question is just how many hundreds of thousands. In view of this, it is completely incomprehensible that while the government spends hundreds, sometimes thousands of billions of forints on unnecessary investments, such as Budapest-Belgrád railway, Paks II, the Liget project or the construction of the MotoGP track, it is difficult to obtain real economic protection. Thus, the government's biggest crisis management programme in the history of the country was actually delayed, overcomplicated and few. So either the government didn't want to help the Hungarian workers, or it miscalculated itself. This is shown by the fact that, at the end of April, Viktor Orbán admitted in Parliament that he does not have a plan B in the field of OSH, does not extend his three-month period of unemployment support, and does not increase his amount, since at the latest at the end of the period of support, everyone will find a job for themselves. But if he doesn't, he'll get it from the state. That's what was said in Parliament, isn't it? I think time has perfectly demonstrated that this statement does not stand the test of truth. According to the government's statements, ten thousand-billion HUF is available to combat the epidemic and the crisis. The government has already used HUF 2800 billion from the right sources, but, in a very wasteful way, hundreds of billions have gone to support the multinationals and the automotive industry and to help the friendly luxury hotels. According to the LMP, resources were not spent properly by the government, and therefore we have put together a crisis management package, specifying the cost of each step. At least HUF 3000 billion must be spent to combat the epidemic and to alleviate the economic and social crisis. The LMP identified in six points what are the necessary steps in the short term. Free testing of 400 billion forints must be provided for everyone and state income replacements must be given to those in quarantine to prevent the spread of the epidemic and the overload of the health system. The state doesn't work if, during an epidemic, the defense costs are paid for by the innocent infected. In order for the state to help those in quarantine, it would be necessary to change the social security and sickness rules, not to put anyone on the street because of illness, not to collapse the family's budget. I think that perhaps there is no discussion between us with the pro-government representatives that the economy is based on the family, the working man. So we think and have always represented the need to help working people in such a crisis, and unfortunately, the government has forgotten about this painfully. 200 billion HUF must be spent to increase the unemployment benefit to nine months and increase its amount. We have already tabled a bill on this matter, and I would add, along with almost all the opposition parties. Hundreds of thousands lost their jobs, and despite Viktor Orbán's broken promise, the government did not provide new jobs for everyone. The government was supposed to start a pay-as-you-go program, this time, let's say, with full access. This takes 300 billion forints. The government is talking about preserving jobs, while in the European Union it has only abolished the wage support programme, putting hundreds of thousands of jobs in jeopardy. There should be no lower limit in the re-launched wage support scheme, so that employees of businesses that have lost their total income can also receive it. In addition, the employee can receive part of his previous salary even if he is forced to work temporarily in other sectors, such as agriculture, in the social or health sector. It is important to increase not only the salaries of doctors, but also the salaries of healthcare workers, social workers who are subject to extra burden, as well as those who work in education. In addition, rescue services, general medical, protective and other systems should be strengthened, while wage increases should also be made in kindergarten, primary education and higher education systems, also in view of the difficulties caused by the epidemic, among teachers directly assisting in teaching and teaching. This would have cost the government 700 billion forints in total if he had gotten away with it. It is also essential to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% and to shorten supply chains so that food is not luxury in the crisis, and this can be done with a total of HUF 270 billion. Food cannot be luxury, healthy and affordable food is critically important in the crisis, which is why the VAT on basic foods needs to be reduced, it is not enough to say daily to the camera that four apples per person are to be eaten every day in a family. In addition to the fifth point, we need a sixth, which contains several smaller but more important elements. Public works programmes should be linked to training programmes of HUF 100 billion. It takes 10 billion forints to ensure that children who have so far received food mainly in schools and kindergartens receive the necessary care during the epidemic. The creation of online teaching infrastructure for teachers of vulnerable age, Internet contribution, asset contribution, digital methodological further training, if any, can be achieved from HUF 50-70 billion. In order to reduce and prevent domestic domestic violence, 100 billion dollars should be spent, 77 billion forints for the first week of the 13th month pension should be paid immediately to pensioners in this critical economic situation. Forints 22 billion should be used to raise the home care fee by adjusting it to the minimum wage. Out of 200 billion, there is a need to increase the number of older homes and their quality of service. In the same way, expanding support services and increasing capacity are important issues, which would require a cost of HUF 43 billion. To build online services adapted to the epidemic situation in the cultural sphere, from the guided tour to the theatre performances to the concerts, 30 billion HUF could have been spent to support the training of this technical background. Unfortunately, these have not been done by the government, but, at the same time, we think that this bill can be a starting step in this direction and that what will become of this will probably only be answered by the future. In this form, the May Other Politics can support this bill, provided that there will be a continuation of it, and the government regulations will not express some ulterior motive when they appear. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. Here comes Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13481. In the debate on the legislative proposal, my opposition fellow Members have given their arguments richly as to what I like about this legislation and what is not, which is why I am trying to comment very briefly. This proposal amends 39 laws in Article 49, the purpose of which is to establish an employment-enhancing service system that can be provided by registered organisations and receive support from the State in order to better facilitate the location of workers or potential workers who conclude public contracts with these organisations. The support may be provided from the economic protection and employment fund. The main objective of the proposal, in addition to access to employment, is to ensure that jobs lost as a result of a coronal virus epidemic are carried out as effectively as possible and that, in the event that the authority reveals employment without legal status, an employment monitoring authority would replace the contract for the establishment of the legal relationship by 30 days from the date on which that fact was recorded. If the experience of the last ten years did not exist with regard to the Orbán government vs. employees, it could be said that it is indeed a government proposal that supports workers tremendously. [[15.40]] However, the situation is far more circumstantial, as my fellow Members have said before me. Let us begin by saying that if it were not the code of this kind of work, which supports employers and serves workers, there would otherwise be much less black work, illegal employment, or the long-term employment of workers in the country by mass different business organisations, so that they are insecurity throughout their relationship, and there is no legal guarantee that if they lose their jobs, they can receive at least a termination fee or severance pay. I must say, fellow Members and honourable Secretary of State, that in the last six months, I do not know why, but it has been decided that many workers have written to me and asked for help in how they are concerned by their own employer and in what way the conditions of employment, especially with regard to contracts and working time, are offensive. You know, my fellow Members, that there are very many private companies involved in the purchase and transport of the necessary medical devices caused by the coronal virus epidemic, whether in the area of packaging, in terms of procurement and transport, and how strange it is that all of these signals are linked to the organisations implementing the packaging, i.e. companies that have been set up specifically for this period of service. We had no idea how many new businesses would be generated by the necessary government measures and acquisitions of assets caused by the epidemic, and these companies, having known precisely that their activities would be temporary, would completely undermine the legal obligations and most often concerning workers. I would like to say to my fellow Members that I have met a mass of people who have been registered for four hours of employment who have worked 12 hours in these organisations. I have to say, I have released the authority through the Minister of State to one or two organisations and to the immediate request of the Labour Inspectorate, because it is simply unacceptable that, in order to maximise profits, in the middle of an epidemic risk where all human life is really important, and that everyone must survive in such a way that such craftsmen take advantage of this situation and take advantage of people. [[Continue in 161/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 3 November 2020 161/2. Number Parliamentary Diary I've had a poll of myself over the last few months, but I've taken advantage of the situation, that since you've asked so many people, I've taken advantage of the situation, and that was the issue of employment and employment. I simply wanted a real picture of unemployment and employment. And indeed, Mr Secretary of State and my honourable pro-government colleagues, this unemployment rate has reached 8 percent. But this is still positive compared to what can be seen between the lines from the various statistical data sources, because in Hungary there are 4 million 622,000 economically active people, but in addition to 92 thousand public workers, there are only 4 million 296 thousand people who can do a truly decent job in the labour market. And this, however I look at it, is 9.3 percent. So don't talk about 3 and 3.3 percent unemployment here at all, because that's not true! It's someone else who's looking for a job, and that's why he shows up at the employment offices, but a lot of people don't show up anymore because he's not gonna get a job. So I think that when we hear in the news and in the government reports that only 150,000 people or only 200,000 people are making jobs, and oh, good, because then employment is growing, well, not all people, even a lot of people, don't get into the labour market, but they just give up or are employed black somewhere, which is even worse. In recent moments, my fellow Members have also spoken about what the government should have done in this epidemic in order to save jobs and maintain the existential security of citizens, all of them being justified. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the first week, I have already demanded the use of disaster aid included in the Disaster Protection Act. For if our fellow countrymen had lost their jobs for at least three months, they would have turned all their forints back into the economy. And if only during that time the same money would have been on the market three times, it would have produced so much taxes and contributions to the budget that they had given nominally. So if this was to be paid in March, April, on the one hand, it would give people a tremendous amount of air and, on the other hand, by November, the same money would have returned in the form of taxes and contributions. Because there is a huge VAT, a huge amount of taxes and levies on work, not to mention other taxes, and this would have helped the economy to survive even more, and even more, many companies would have been saved just by doing so. As my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó spoke about it, the multiplier effect would have given me the opportunity to do so. When I read this proposal, I have to say that I had to read it twice because I thought I didn't understand what I was reading, and then I realized that I didn't really understand it because the details were missing. So I believe that there will be a government decree opening up the details, but in effect, Members will vote to set up a new institution that we know absolutely nothing about. We may all feel or feel the same, but we do not have the guts to say that this may be another person's business and that they will be able to benefit from the public support budget only because they provide free employment services to workers. You don't have to create a system like this. We need a decent labour code, we need a fair tax and contribution system, so that not every salary increase is almost a huge burden for employers, we need a predictable economy, we need a predictable public life and a policy. Protectionist-based economic policy should be stopped and everyone who provides valuable services or products on the market should be given an opportunity to benefit from, for example, public procurement. If these basic activities are finally begun by the government, then, believe me, we would not need to bring in rules to improve such well-being, otherwise not known in detail, and waste time and money with it, but we do not know what this will look like in the future. I support the government so that if they can implement this idea effectively, all I ask is that it should not be another giddy-up, rather than creating a new business for some people, so that the targeted target group, the citizens and the working citizens do not really feel anything about it. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-135	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-03-136	Mr President, Dear House, I am not as good of good faith in the government's activities as many of my opposition fellow Members. I've been cold from these frameworks a lot. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State is a professionally prepared man, although his fellow members of the government are all in the room, but they are typically leaving the room. However, Mr Secretary, there were concrete figures here. With regard to the lost wages in the spring, indeed, Minister for Finance has promised that a million workers could benefit from some kind of help. We know that the base you have available for spring is approximately 207,000, so that's how many employees have actually received the wage support that you've announced with a huge chandelier. If this is not the exact number in your paper, then please agree, but at the same time we need the Secretary of State of the Government to take the floor and stand up to the debate, as much as it can be called a heated debate, to listen politely to each other, as has been the case so far. If, on the other hand, the Secretary of State is going to try to clear the government's certificate and clean it up a little bit, I fear he will miss the opportunity to take away the great heat from opposition speeches. I mean, if you're right, then what a secretary of state has to do is stand up and tell you that what the opposition has told you so far is either a net bullshit, or in this and this form is a mistake. [[15.50]] At the same time, we see that the model for the replacement of lost wages, so what Jobbik proposed, the concept of the Hungarian employment protection fund, could make up 80% of all lost wages. Other opposition parties typically set up this 80% level. Obviously, there is a consensus between us not because we talked together in some dark and smoky office, but because every Hungarian person who raises the need to pay wages is on the side of sobriety and normality, a lack of such a model. Therefore, I ask that we be given substantive answers to the question why all this has been missed in Hungary in such a way that it affects many people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-03-137	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Even today we have heard several times that our pro-government representatives quote the Prime Minister, who does not believe in aid, and he says that if there is work, there is everything. I don't know if this is good news or bad news for the Prime Minister, but that's what Hungarian workers think: if there is work, there is everything. I don't know a Hungarian worker who wants to live on welfare. And certainly not someone in today's world who thinks he doesn't have to work, and then somehow takes care of himself. Because everyone knows that one day they're gonna retire and they're not gonna get a pension. The biggest problem is that you, pro-government representatives, are practically degraded, ignoring the Hungarian workers. It is thought that Hungarian workers, by the way, are sly, crafty, little cheating people who do not want to work. But that's not true. Everybody wants to work. Everyone wants to make money, and they want him to have a decent pension. And to do that, you need to have an appointment. What you're talking about is incredibly humiliating for most of the Hungarian social working classes, and I resent it. It's kind of like hearing the Prime Minister say that you're working, and then you're gonna have money, like those old macaroni-westerns when someone gets shot in the leg, and they're gonna tell you to run for your life. What does the Prime Minister think he's doing? ! I'm serious. In the Hungarian Parliament, it has been said several times that they do not give more than three months of aid because the Hungarian people are free-living and will not seek work. Have they ever seen a Hungarian worker? 'Cause I'm afraid not, and that's the biggest problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-03-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the speakers who have been notified in writing. A speech will be made by MEP László Varju, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I will not miss today's opportunity not to ask the honourable Secretary of State why you have not actually prepared an impact assessment, and I will also say now that you should comply with your own legislation when it is necessary to do so. Why do I say that? Here, an attempt is being made to intervene in an order of magnitude, and it is likely that this will be done with pro-government support, which essentially eliminates labour control. They're gonna say something about him that you're gonna do somethin' someday, but as far as you're concerned, it's gonna mean that there's gonna be a checkup where you want it to be. If you want to picture this situation, I will say this in the same way that the debate on the budget has been removed from Parliament's debates, and in the same way that the law on workers, workers, people living on wages and salaries is excluded exactly what makes public debate impossible. If you do this by not consulting employees' organisations, trade unions, otherwise, this, I think, is a huge irresponsible thing to do. Moreover, as I have said, they do not comply with their own law, in which it is stated that an impact assessment should examine all the effects of the planned legislation which have been considered significant and its social, economic and budgetary impacts. Where is he, Mr. Secretary? When do they bother to make such a change to millions of people? I understand that even though you have a law, you don't follow it. I see this in countless places, that, by the way, no matter what the court's decision is made, laws are passed, and otherwise, they don't care about it. So this is the case, which, by the way, makes me think that this is necessary. In addition, I join my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, and I am not as good faith as some of my fellow Members can say here, because when we listen to Minister Szijjártó and others, what an incredible investment environment there is in Hungary, and the main aspect of this is the cheap labour force they say, not us, and by the way, the very loose labour rules, they are doing what they are doing now, in fact, to prepare for the possibility of further relaxation, let us say, to provide the Hungarian worker to those who, for example, do not have a trade union or an employee representation in their sense, instead of strengthening them, instead of giving them access to capital in this sense. I think that this is unacceptable, and that is why and that is what we must fight. We will do our best, for a while this law may be alive, but it will be changed by you or Parliament later. I'm trying to think of another reason or intention to change the law in your place, what it really was. One part may be that the health crisis gives you the opportunity or the means to do so, or forces you to change the situation, because in itself, the management of the economic downturn that has arisen must be dealt with in some way. Or the other version should be taken into account, this is the other option of correcting the bad decisions taken in previous years. I think it's about this latter one. After things that have gone wrong lately, let's just say they're running, and they're trying to fix it in some way. I am also saying this because, arguing here with my pro-government colleague, the government has been in a very comfortable position over the past few years. Since 2008, and even since 2010 you have been ruling, in 2010 you have had to work or have had the opportunity to do so in a continuous and ever-increasing economic environment after the global economic crisis has ceased to exist. Moreover, this international environment has been complemented by the fact that, using the support of the European Union, the government is in a very generous position, in terms of what has created its revenues, resources and opportunities. Another question is that you have abused it, and you have not used it the way you should have. I said this on the previous or previous agenda. Now that Hungary is in a situation where you have not taken advantage of the situation in an emerging economic environment, you are not prepared for crisis management, and now people are abandoned in the spring. I believe that, for example, the EUR 506 million, HUF 180 billion from the European Union, announced by the Minister for Finance at last week's budget committee, should be used immediately for wage support, to create an opportunity for people, workers and, by the way, directly by companies to maintain their jobs and give their families a life-span to earn income. [[16.00]] And then, Mr. State Secretary, I have not yet talked about the possibility that this week, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, the President of the Hungarian National Bank acknowledged that the Hungarian National Bank had more than HUF 300 billion in its activities, and HUF 300 000 million in its budget. And feel free to think about it, Mr. Secretary of State: 300 000 million forints, i.e., if you give one million forints per family or employee, which would, of course, be extremely generous, you would still have 300,000 people. Will you think about it, Mr. Secretary? If we speak only on the part of a proportion of this, then practically the employees could be helped by two extraordinary items that have been announced by you in the last two weeks, by the Minister of Finance and by the President of the Hungarian National Bank, specifically from the resources currently available. Instead, what are they doing? Nothing, Mr. Secretary. In the middle of the economic crisis. Okay, let me be more respectful, I'm not saying anything, but when you know exactly, and the Prime Minister is about to make an announcement before closing, I think that you have a dog duty to help employees. And by the way, this bill that we have here, and that's the total opposite of anything you guys would do. In the previous line of thought, I have drawn attention to the fact that they want to change the situation created by the employment service, which was previously mistreated, so I think that is the case, that what they have done wrong before, instead of doing something else. They understood, but to be honest, these steps are not the ones that could make a difference. And that's because they don't get mediated workers they can hire. Therefore, employers who do not report job vacancies only comply with the minimum legislation in group depopulation. And by the way, you've been separated from reality in this regard, because there's no job vacancy in the service, but it's not in your interest to report it, and by the way, those who go there can't provide meaningful help. Employees go to employment centres because of job search support. Therefore, neither party expects real mediation from the service, but from the labour agency, profit-oriented companies, which are increasingly involved in the market. Therefore, instead of working to improve the services of labour centres, the government puts it all on the market and puts the already vulnerable unemployed in their hands. Well, congratulations on that. Let us now just add that this is expressly prohibited in the European Union. And if you, as my fellow Member has already said here, want to finance these providers, by the way, because you have concluded a strategic contract with them, then, frankly, the problem is even greater. Let us also look at some thoughts about employment supervision. At one time, there was an independent national organization called the National Labour and Labour Safety Inspectorate. This organization with independent control powers, operation, legal background, county offices, I could say it was liquidated. Today, there are only traces of this, and at the same time the number of checks has decreased, and as I said, workers have become vulnerable, and here it has been mentioned as an example. In the last report, 68 percent of the checked employers were found to be in violation. This is the obvious proof that what they have done so far is bad for employees. Do you talk about how many people you can employ by destroying them anyway? Instead of providing them with proper help, they would have a proper legal background. I therefore continue to think that this legislation is essentially about improving those who have previously failed. But if they can't fix it, they're gonna hurt you in this form. In the case of rules on minimum requirements, I must also say that they are typically minimum standards, which impose mandatory provisions governing the declaration of rights, their mandatory content, statutory working hours, rest periods, registration or wages, the issue of certificates and the clearance. The authority is basically divided into two parts, there will be a general authority and there will be a special authority. But we don't know what's going on. In particular, I have to mention in the employment inspectorate that the part responsible for mining matters is also in this category, defence, and we could also list them. But what they do and how, by the way, has not been discussed with employers or employees. They did not give me the opportunity, because the fact that they gave them 24 hours at the meeting to respond, I think that this form is unacceptable. And you, Mr Secretary of State, have ignored it and have not mentioned that you were criticised at this meeting, both parties, employers and employees, because they do not give you the opportunity to debate this change in substance. So, overall, I think that this bill is unacceptable as it is. Here, if I have the opportunity, I would also like to address some more detailed comments on the content, but in general, this draft law must be rejected. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-03-141	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-142	Mr President, Dear House, Let me be self-critical on the opposition side: I do not understand the unfolding goodwill of some of my opposition fellow Members in relation to a bill on which it shines, radiates that it is written by cowards and represented by cowards. After all, weak, cowardly people also want weak forints, as Prime Minister said very correctly; I can still identify with this Prime Minister's sentence. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]] Here, too, I see that there is indeed a lack of spirit courage from the pro-government representatives that Hungarian workers need right now. This bill doesn't just annoy me what's in it, it's more annoying what's missing. And here I tried to stir up a cultural debate, and my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó stood up on the cathedral of culture, so modestly trying to explain in detail what is missing from this proposal. However, what you have been doing to Hungarian workers since spring is outrageous. Let's start the spring quarantine period. It started with the fact that on the third day of the emergency, we said that we needed a Hungarian employment protection fund, that we needed 80% of the wages lost, and that this model should be extended to those who had lost their jobs recently. And we also saw that not only didn't have an immediate conception, but the Orbán government started a very slow wobbly wobble of a month and a half. So it was really worked out, it was swollen, but the Secretary of State can't disprove it, because the Orbán government hasn't stood up for a month and a half with a working model for the replacement of wages. You guys were frozen. [[16.10]] Then they stood up to one, which the Minister of Finance promised to use up to a million employees, a little over 200 thousand of them, so they could not become a comprehensive model, but market experts estimate that they could make up for 15-20 percent of lost wages in the best times compared to 80 percent wage replacement. They did so by saying that this programme was 14th or 15th in Europe, which was launched, so not at all among the EU countries, even in the middle field, Hungary was perhaps very well placed at the end. Then we see that they spent the summer with something else. So they acted as if the epidemiological emergency, the resulting economic crisis, had vanished. In the summer you can blow off steam, you can recharge it, you didn't see that certain factories, government sorcery plants, where good billings are born and good communication panels, they would have worked in the summer. We saw that it seemed a little unexpected to the government that the emergency had returned in the fall, and now the economy is unfortunately hit much harder than it did in the spring or early summer. We also see that this Hungarian economic arrangement did not start from the strongest foundations in terms of the fact that, if we look at the average level of Hungarian wages or the Hungarian minimum wage, we do not see that, let us say, a huge launch would have occurred in recent years compared to the countries of the region, but we continue to see that these values, measured mainly in euros, are being passed on by Hungarian data among the drivers of Europe. It is very sad, as Prime Minister said, at a conference in Saudi Arabia in 2016, he attempted to lure the working capital here by stressing how low Hungarian wages are and how flexible the labour code is. It is amazing, therefore, that they wanted to campaign with this, but we also see that this is accompanied by one of Europe's narrowest unemployment care systems. I can't believe you and you guys haven't been able to get your voices to you in the last few months, that the three months, if any, are short. I can't believe you didn't get those completely lifelike sounds about the amount of unemployment benefit. Different proposals have been made on the opposite side, putting the length of time between 6 and 9 months that this provision should take in an increased amount compared to the present one, in order to provide at least temporary security for Hungarian people. But it's even more blood-creepy what this government does to the workers they've left behind. Let's take a look at today's situation. We here in Parliament have a debate in well-heated rooms, and I am sure that this is sympathetic to many, many have different and negative indications for the Members sitting here, some who belong to all parties at the same time. Meanwhile, in Csepel today, I don't know, you know, they evicted another family, and not just in Csepel, Newpesten. His mother, who needed care in the Csepel case, was today exposed to the affected family. A live chain created there by civil activists, one by one, was removed by the police. They put this family out on the street under the circumstances that the mayor of Csepel, who I know didn't start out in the colors of Jobbik, and who wouldn't have been on Jobbik's bond to postpone in this case. Once again, in the middle of an epidemiological emergency caused by Covid, the mayor and his office could have delayed. He didn't do all this. The trustee, although he claimed that non-compliance with the payment option was a legal basis for eviction, is the great fact that according to the locals, according to the data subjects and the rapid investigations, there has been continuous repayment in the last year, i.e. not only the willingness to repay, but also the continued repayment of outstanding debts. The government, the municipal policy that develops all kinds of advantages for the luckier, better-moded, and not so much humanity for those who are in a difficult situation, is quite amazing, chemically neoliberal. This is also a kind of sighting of the last 30 years, but since 2010, I wish we didn't have to say this, but the social situation has deteriorated further and more than ten thousand families have been evicted without accommodation on the street. In the meantime, my fellow pro-government Members, undersecretaries of state, say how much better the situation of Hungarian workers has improved, how much more stable and predictable everyday life is, but they cannot answer these very clear cases when they should only be humane when families should not be thrown on the streets in the middle of an emergency. At this point, they're gonna blow their little eyes off, wait for the 15th of November, the eviction moratorium, until they let the enforcement teams you left to fish in confusion, and they're gonna come to you with a crowd of them, so don't tell you they don't. notifications of evictions. This morning, Newpesten confirmed that Covid infected patients were virtually on the street. And obviously, they'll make the necessary announcements, they'll be investigated, but they won't be able to get their place of residence, their property back. This madness is taking place in your Hungary until November 15th and the day of the moratorium that is expected to be announced. Of course, my fellow Member Nacsa may stand up and say that Béla Kun is also responsible for foreign exchange lending or the governments before 2010. And I also say that there are some partial truths in this, because when you have allowed this very harmful loan stock to increase, it certainly falls into this period and in 2001 when unilateral treaty amendments have been made possible in this form, and your minister, unfortunately, has something to do with it, but the chemical neoliberal disaster that has been brought to Hungary from the perspective of economic policy and family policy, is your work, and you have to answer for it. The fact that although the local mayor of the government could give you a stay, but they're still putting this family on the street in the middle of an emergency emergency with a mother in need of care, please explain it to me if you can. I don't think I can. Back to the proposal, we must say that it is cowardly, timid and unfair to come to Parliament in the middle of a crisis with a regulatory framework. There's a crisis, we need crisis management, and crisis management is messed up, and it's gonna blow, it's gonna blow, it's gonna sabotage this government. This crisis is on our hands, it will be completed in the coming months, and you know it very well. You know what we need? I am not talking about mixed martial arts, I am talking about the Hungarian employment protection fund. 80% of all wages lost should be eliminated, replaced, and extended to those who have lost their jobs fresh so that no one really stays on the side of the road. Mr Secretary, if you had responded to me and did not do so at the end of the debate, you might have asked me how you intend to finance this enormous burden. And I would answer that, yes, it is hundreds of billions of forints, and we need to speak out correctly about how we can generate resources for all of this. I will also admit that this burden may be 700 billion, perhaps even greater. The labour market is dynamic, so we can't tell how many people are in employment and how many people are in trouble in a given month, but we can see that there are hundreds of billions of dollars in burden. We also see that foreign resources have now been opened up in this matter, whether it be a preferential loan, whether it be aid. However, the Secretary of State did not bring here the papyros which would channel all of them into the replacement of lost wages, but they appeared here with a very different kind of paksameta. In the meantime, I can see that when we fill up the cash register of the emergency, so the basis from which we can now work, this government is acting in an incredibly organic manner. More precisely, he testifies to the worst behavior of power: he treads down, and let us be subtle up. What are you doing? Smash some of the opposition parties first, try, but we'll face the 50 percent load, pay them to the common register, so it's right. It's tearing up the municipalities... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The mass of resources of the local governments is not just party support, my fellow Member; but we can also go into a dialogue genre. So the municipalities are being sabotaged, and then, of course, through their lackey media, they are being called upon to account for the various social benefits and improvements they have lost. First they raid the register. Let's see what they do to the companies. Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises, however, undertake what they have to do on a public burden-sharing basis. In the case of multi-company companies, there are avoidable types of special taxes and some kind of charges, a few ten billion are coming from here. But there's the expensive banking sector, to whom you are technically, I don't want to use a nasty word again, but I owe you. And this banking sector is indeed the only one in Hungary that does not pay for the disease control hat. He's got a $55 billion special tax on paper, which in a few years he can write down completely from his taxes to zero, and they've even helped them through the MNB. [[16.20]] This government, therefore, had amazingly slept with the banking system while accusing the local governments, accusing the small people, not providing support for workers and family support. Typically, it favors those who have a better way. In the case of average earnings, it provides a well-supported loan, no support, and quite simply drives away the people who are a little less than average, but not the government, but the intermediary bank that will tell you that I'm going to do a credit check on you, citizen, and I'm sorry, you're not earning enough, you're not using the CSOK, or you're not using the other form of support. Do you know what this is called? Neoliberalism. I can see that they started at the Liberal International, but they returned to the same place in the field of economic policy, in addition to learning all the operating elements of the Bolshevik lie factory along the way. Then they present the production reports here in Parliament, the Hungarian Nation writes, lies about us, we sue them, they pay the damages, while harassing my elderly family members, they photographed me in the family house with a drone, but, you know, that's okay with you. They deny it here, they say they didn't know about it. The damages charge will be paid again after the new winning lawsuits, and these damages will be compensated by public companies, presumably, for the press products that will have to pay. You know, that's how Jobbik won only Jobbik, not the entire opposition over 200 press cases against the ugly Bolshevik lie factory. And why do we not have the same lost press trials, fellow Members? How can this story be so one-sided? We see that the same is happening, let us say, in the case of employment statistics, when they tell us how much better they have improved, and do not include, where appropriate, the adjustment factors that would make hundreds of thousands worse picture, the reported student workers, the inclusion of some of the Hungarians who have migrated abroad. We find the same with regard to demographic data, where you are also trying to conceal the reality of the situation with similar distorting factors. In the meantime, according to recent data, the gross minimum wage in Hungary was more than EUR 451,51, while in our eastern neighbour it was EUR 460.77, while the minimum benefit of the Hungarian minimum wage was still present at the beginning of 2020. Thus, the exchange rate forint/euro has deteriorated in an amazing way, which is obviously the result of this pre-emption, not the fact that in this country or in that country the minimum wage system has been compromised during the year. But this preemption also shows that the exposure of the Hungarian economy on an international level is terrifying, the population and companies pay a special tax by making the Hungarian forint extremely weak and consciously weakened, the wages lost are not compensated, the employees do not know who they can count on in the trouble, while they are being evicted. Even when evictions may stop, the artificial expansion of debts is still ongoing. Executive bands were expected to deduct 33 percent and 50 percent, respectively, of dubious claims throughout the spring closure. I assume you can do this in the winter, because the government has not submitted a proposal to prevent this. This whole chemical neoliberal, and the economic policy that's robbing the poor, I'll say it again, in a political spectacle, in a witch's kitchen and in public TV, they're trying to make it look national, but it's still neoliberal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-143	Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK Group.
u2020-11-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make two brief but substantive comments, which would rather emphasise and underline what has already been said by my fellow Members in recent years. What solutions are needed? The measures which are likely to serve some interests, by the way, are the repeal of the Labour Control, Employment Services, Aids and Employment Surveillance Act, and the amendments made in the proposal would otherwise have been possible without repealing the audit. Who are you really trying to favor? As I mentioned earlier, here is the strategic partnership. On the other hand, I think it raises a lot of questions that, in this situation too, when Hungary is in the middle of the crisis, and this is now clearly, Hungary is in crisis, recognised by the Minister of Finance, instead of coming here with a proposal of 6-9 months, to finance workers' wages, or to extend the possibility of job search support and benefits to do so, all of this is ignored. I think this is unacceptable! All this is taking place in such circumstances as to join my fellow Member here a little, that, by the way, at yesterday's Economic Committee meeting, the President of the Hungarian National Bank, if you can quote him and he is there in the minutes, will read, the Hungarian banks have never made as much money on the NHP programme as they are doing during this period. That is precisely because, instead of helping workers, they are trying to tuning companies with development loans, while otherwise they are not doing much good. They've been entrusted with keeping the people. What did they do? They've been dismissed. That's your policy. Unacceptable! Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-03-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor in a two-minute timeframe to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-03-146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In our left-over column, there has been no mention of the amazing pay gap in Hungary. I would also like to ask for a government position on the matter, how it can happen that, while the first half-year aggregated data of the KSH show that the highest net wage is high in Budapest, this is more than HUF 328 thousand according to one statement and is undoubtedly higher than in the previous year, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg the amount that is just over HUF 180 thousand during the average net period available. There is an amazing gap between the lowest net available here and the average in Budapest, and we can see that this gap is constantly expanding. It is incomprehensible what this government has to offer to those who, say, lose their jobs and livelihoods in a county in North-East Hungary. I'm not saying it's easy in Budapest either, but perhaps the possibility of recovery is even a little bit simpler or less complex. But what I see is that there are entire counties, districts, regions in Hungary, where the possibility of this restoration is actually bordering on the impossible. We also see that the statistical picture that four of the most poor regions in the EU remain in Hungary has not changed either. We are not really hearing about the concept of employment that would lead these regions out of this crisis. They have often said that the number of public workers has decreased and how many of them have been able to return to the primary labour market. At the same time, we cannot find our fellow countrymen in the statistics. I wish we could find them. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-11-03-147	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group, in a normal time frame.
u2020-11-03-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A lot of nonsense and nonsense has been said here in the last few minutes, especially from Mr Z. Carpathian, who began his speech by saying that they are cowardly suggestions and cowards. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Let us hear your rebuttals!]] Congressman, a coward who doesn't dare come out and congratulate the winner doesn't dare look him in the eye and say congratulations [[Zoltán Balczó: What tools?]] Because he has received the support of more than 50 percent of the voters. A coward who doesn't dare go there to congratulate him is a coward. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Do not boast after a purchased vote! How much did you pay? The president's ringing the bell.]] Another coward who does not dare to vote for a constitutional amendment banning the resettlement quota because of his left-wing allies is the coward; and the coward who has given up his principles for a few listing places joins with Ferenc Gyurcsány, that coward, Congressman! [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Then let the professional arguments take place!]] The professional arguments are as follows. If you look at the August KSH data, the employment is once again over 4.5 million, only you regularly deny them. Mr Bodo, Secretary of State, stands out from week to week and presents the various issues of the action plan for the protection of jobs, keeps talking about where, how many companies, what support we have been able to provide. If you were to listen to these press conferences and the news about them, you would know precisely that, of course, you have to work on more and more programs constantly, you always have to do everything to make sure that as many people as possible who can and can work, but we have received good news already in August of this year, because the level of employment has returned to the level of January, since in March the corona virus came to Hungary, and then the restrictive measures and the economic downturn have started, and now we can see that it has returned to this level. We can see that thousands of companies have received competitiveness-enhancing support in 30 different industries. We can see that Hungarian businesses, Hungarian-owned family businesses, businesses operating here and generating value have received hundreds of billions of dollars of job-saving and job-creating support. [[16.30]] These are the professional arguments that these programmes are indeed successful! You are systematically disavowing these here without any basis, but that is the case, Mr President, that these programmes are successful, and these programmes must continue. You don't have to stop here. No one said we were done. The Secretary of State didn't say in his exposé that the work he has done to date, carried out in the ITM, is now over. Of course, we will continue to provide job-enhancing, job-supporting and investment incentives, as was the case at the time of the first wave, when, by the way, we introduced tax exemptions, contributions, tax incentives, sector benefits, job retention subsidies. These have results, and that is why the Statistical Office has been able to say that the number of employees has risen to 4.5 million. With your own political activity, you now want to help those with the lowest employment rate in Europe at 56.4 percent in their time. You are here in Parliament, day by day, trying to give power to those who had a 56.4 percent employment rate in their time. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This will not be enough!]] which was the lowest in Europe at that time, and now the employment rate before the crisis was 71.1 percent, and we have now reached the same level that is already above the European Union's average. You don't take these things into account on a regular basis, and you usually try to forget that they're not mentioned. Let it not be said that you want to bring these people back into power when a million people were forced into humiliating unemployment benefits with that policy at that time. [[László Varju intervenes.]] The Honourable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics, who had such decisions attached to his name, was also involved. The Member has also dealt with press trials and lies that are completely inappropriate here, claiming that the government side is spreading lies about you, for example, through various press trials. The fact is, honourable Member, that you should look at the statement that your press chief from the Dialogue wrote about me yesterday, in which he used disgusting and other words like this on my person. This is your communication! Before you accuse us, I'd rather you sweep your own house. I think that's more important. As far as poverty is concerned, again they deny or forge data which I think all Hungarians should be proud of, that poverty has decreased significantly in Hungary, that the number of people exposed to severe financial deprivation has decreased significantly due to the government of the last ten years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , the number of households unable to pay their bills or which cannot pay any unexpected costs has decreased significantly. You have to look at the European Union report on the subject, you have to look at the numbers of the Central Statistical Office on the subject. We have never said that poverty has been eradicated permanently and completely. We have said that the number of poor people has been decreasing steadily, that the number of people living below the minimum of living has decreased steadily, that the number of people exposed to severe material deprivation has decreased steadily, and that is a good direction, that direction must be continued, and that is the basis of work. That's what this law is all about. This is based on decent, declared and otherwise paid work in Hungary. This direction must continue, this direction is what we think is right. Indeed, the number of people involved in public work is decreasing and is decreasing because more and more people are finding jobs in the primary labour market, in the competitive sector. It's very important that there were many, many more public workers before. Ask the country mayors. If Jobbik had a significant number of rural mayors, then he would know that mayors say that otherwise they can no longer fill up the public works that have been announced, because these people have found work thanks to investment and job retention and protection support. Secretary of State Bodo can confirm this from his own region that they are constantly unable to replenish the total number of public workers, because, thank God, they have found work, and that was the goal. I think denying the results of community service is also a matter of malice or ignorance. I think that an important common goal could be to continuously increase employment levels as much as possible, so that unemployment levels and unemployment are essentially eliminated in Hungary. This measure, this bill, points in this direction, as Fidesz-KDNP has done over the past ten years. This proposal is all, but not cowardly, what my right-wing fellow Member has said, but another important step to make Hungary a work-based society, people can support their families from work, wages and income, and not from unworthy and humiliating aid, as the left wants. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-03-150	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Congressman Nacha! All the time when, if you like, hard, if you like, not real numbers of professional speeches are given by you [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What professional?]] Then he'll take everything to the political level. I'm not going to answer the one thing that I love to your attention: be careful with the slogans. Let's keep our course. He was the slogan of SZDSZ in 1998. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] If you're looking at the situation so gloomy that you're using the same slogan, I'm surprised. Thank you.
u2020-11-03-151	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Szabó Szabolcs, an independent congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-152	Thank you very much for the floor. I didn't plan on commenting originally, but as a social researcher, I'm forced to cut a little bit of order here in relation to the data I've heard. On the one hand, labour market data is never used to look at previous monthly data and quarterly data, as it has a very strong seasonality, but we always look at the same period of the previous year. For example, if you look at the data of the KSH, you have about 40,000 fewer employees than the data of about a year ago, and according to the National Employment Service, there are almost 100,000 more registered job seekers. These are facts, and from a professional point of view, this should be seen in this way. That's all I wanted to share with you. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-153	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Sándor Bodó: Definitely!]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-03-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Definitely! First of all, thank you very much for your opinions and contributions. When we started this debate a few hours ago, you may remember who were here even though I may have said the title of the bill twice, referring to its content. I was quite sure, by the way, that there were a lot of other opinions on employment, and I really do say that I listened to them with interest; with sufficient interest, even if in many cases, I can say that the concrete bill had nothing to do with the comments, by the way. This is obviously everyone's belief in what they see in such a story, but what we need to see is that some things need to be clarified. It can be seen and heard that opposition, pro-government fellow Members are also concerned about the timeliness of this law, how it should be brought before Parliament, whether we discuss it or not. I can also see as some kind of unity that the many and complex laws that we now, let's say, will actually be able to implement, and we can define our duties in a law, otherwise they were supported. If someone may have indicated that the political decisions of the past few years have been flawed, these laws will be thirty years old. So this is to be classified as, let's say, the current governing party or perhaps the previous one made some kind of orbital mistake, which, excuse me, does not cut here at all. This is where my fellow Member whispered the date, perhaps [[Zoltán Balczó: 1 March]] This law was adopted on 1 March 2006. Well, there's no way that this timeline can be identified by someone thinking about some really naughty political machinations. The time has simply come to clarify the employment conditions described by life. [[16.40]] What concerns the structure of the law: we obviously need to settle a framework now, because, as you said, my fellow Member may not even be here anymore; but this is not a criticism, I just mention, we have a number of laws to pass now, from which we need to set a framework, a way for all those involved in the labour market. And, of course, no one in the world, I myself am not shutting down, and I can even say that I am with the utmost openness, even to the social partners, when we will work this out at the level of government decrees. It was said that we, in turn, did not agree with the social partners in the world. Well, that is not the case either, my fellow Members, because we have been going through every week, every Monday from 10 a.m., every week since the health emergency occurred, in the framework of a video conference, the tasks, which relate to the week in question, and we appreciate everything that has happened in the previous week. The participants in this video conference are basically representatives of the Chamber, but there are a number of employers' groups, and I can even say that representatives of sectors are also present. So it's not that we're hiding some kind of information or data from them, it's that we keep them on the table all the time, we discuss them, we negotiate with the handbags. On these many occasions, Minister Palkovic also participated, and my State Secretary colleagues are also involved. So there's no hiding, there's no blurry rooms, or how it just came out here. From the permanent consultation forum of the competition sphere and the government, I can say that whatever we think of them, they have confirmed in our last conversation this week and in our conference that this is a well-functioning construction. I do not know how much you know about this, because obviously because of your many other parliamentary and other tasks, it is not certain that this is being dealt with on a daily basis, but the representatives of your employers and employees' side are present, major trade union representatives and major employers' groups. Of course, the government is also part of this trialogue series. And if I can't say for the VKF that it was every week, but in the most critical situation there was a video conference between us every week, we discussed what the current tasks were. And I'm admitting it to you now because, by the way, no one has ever made an employment emergency scenario during the Covid-19 virus, that when we had to adjust it, we discussed it first with them, and we did take their suggestions into account when they said that this wasn't the way, that this should be moved a little bit and this line moved. And I do not consider this to be some kind of professional weakness, but to the point that they, who represent employers and workers, may have the same experience or experience as we, who may not always be the first to set a practical example. So these professional discussions, these political discussions have always been done, and they will continue to be done. Of course, I cannot promise that in this relatively accelerated process there are weeks, months available to comment on a bill, especially in our case, when it is part of a process and a framework. We keep this on the agenda every single time. We also keep wage negotiations on the agenda. So it's not nearly like there's some kind of delay from this subject. What concerns the content of the bill: in addition to a number of support proposals, there were some things in it that were not in it or why it was not in it. These are precisely the otherwise very important details that will be developed later. But there's also the thought of us throwing the workers to the I don't know exactly where. Well, the safety of workers is more important than anything else, and I am happy to say to you that we are not the only ones here in Parliament, but also the employers. They are fully aware that without adequate working conditions, the individual will not be able to cope, but obviously the company will not be able to manage either. So this isn't some kind of irreconcilable conflict. And I can tell you, fortunately, we've come to the point where everyone has a sense of reason and a normal understanding of that. How and how are checks carried out? Well, I accept that there was a time when this was not the methodology, but I am professionally committed to making sure that the first step is to provide information, information to employers as well as to employees. If we didn't have this information, for example, two weeks ago we joined the European Union as a current topic for the examination of musculoskeletal diseases, so if we didn't have these forward-looking, informative, problem-provoking things, then on what basis would any of my colleagues, who had control tasks, go there and say that I will impose a fine here to the extent that you are begging. Well, my colleagues are people, too, and I would like to stress this very strongly, and it does not give them any pleasure that they have to impose a significant fine. So it's certainly an enlightening campaign, information, and obviously it has its tricks. I cannot now tell you what measures we are using to force employers to do everything they can. If I told you every little professional trick, it wouldn't be useful from tomorrow, but I'd be happy to share it with anyone in private, as you're bound by the oath of representatives. So, in this situation, after the information is provided, the check is carried out, and our colleagues do control these jobs. Of course, it is different that, if there is a regular pattern, there is a constant lack of irregularities. This does not mean that they are forever exempt from control, but obviously there is no need for inspectors to show up there every day or every week. Where we find that something is wrong, because clearly it is not okay, and there they must reappear, and then again, again and again. In this situation, this timetable should be maintained for information, monitoring and, if necessary, for repeated cases. I have not experienced this on the part of those who have been punished many times, of course, at a level of social resistance that there is a great deal of yelling happening here. There is no longer a fellow Member here who said that it is terrible that when we catch someone in black employment, we have to report back there for a month, and that this is not right. I would have been so happy to have told him, but obviously I didn't want to stop him from interrupting, and it would have been inappropriate to have a word there: at least. In the event that, in the case of a black employer, don't give it to me, God, for years we experience that it is not announced and that there is some kind of brazen employment, the rule is not to report it backwards for a month, because it would be pathetic ridiculous, let's face it, but the rule is that, as long as it can be justified, there is only evidence of this condition. And if it's gonna be three years, I don't want it to be like this in the country, but since I live here, I might even imagine that, it's gonna happen for three years. Obviously, we are not hiding these rules, but let me not tell you about inspection and professional internals in the television camera, because then my colleagues will have to rethink some new procedures from tomorrow in order to avoid hundreds of tricks being applied by potential employers. By the way, morale is improving in this area, no matter how much of the outstanding examples appear in a larger number. My fellow Members have mentioned the circumstances under which X and Y worked and then went to the employment department and received insufficient information, no registration, and no payment; we are probably thinking of a news report or two. [[16.50]] I asked that we look at these, because there was obviously a first name there that we could not clearly identify, but in that district office the employer by that name was not registered. I am not suggesting any videos or any manipulated stories, so I asked my colleagues and the employment department manager in the district to be kind, to research them; not because I want to have some kind of individual success, but to have that unfortunate worker get it. Of course, I can also imagine that he is saying that he does not want to do this because of some kind of half-defiance or anything else, but my colleagues, the head of the employment department, my excellent colleagues, have been on telephone duty, they have always been, but from the first day of the emergency, I can tell you, from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. on weekends when they could be called. If the person wanted to address his problem by name, it was obviously easier to ask for legal advice, guidance, and obviously we were able to help him in general. So that's what we have on our part right now. When the figures on the structure of the system were presented here, I had an impression, in my opinion, that we might not see it the same way. Not to add much to the word, but in the end you have given me the authority to participate in this debate, not to generate it, I would just like to say factually how the employment system, more specifically its part of the office, works in Hungary. The employment departments will be present in all walks and in several districts of Budapest, they are the first employees to meet those whose lives unfortunately turned out to be, let's say, registered job seekers. This is obviously where the necessary data collection, consultation, all kinds of professional steps are taken, where an administrative process is set in motion and, as far as possible, a financial benefit process is launched, and a process is launched to get him out of this system as soon as possible. Of course, they're all very important. Allow me to talk about administrative processes. Everyone in Hungary works from at least three databases, and I rarely have the opportunity to open this to you so deep, but I will now tell you the difference between them. There's obviously an NAV database, it's specific, factual. It's a little nuance of the picture, so let's just say that someone who has a job can have a business, so the two things are not mutually exclusive, so how do I put it? corrected. This, I'll tell you honestly, we only count it third in a row in our professional work. Employment data to be comparable at EU level and to use the EU methodology in some way in accordance with the EU methodology are calculated in all the countries of the European Union. So when we hear interesting things that you hear, and I would say that you're sure that you're okay, then, please, not to blame me and my colleagues, but the European Union agreement, which is about, if, say, a spurred example, someone in the past period has done two weeks, say, up to two hours of useful work, and he actually says that he is in employment, he is considered to be an employee by this organisation at European Union level. In fact, I'm going to go on, if he says he's ready to get a job in two weeks, and that's because, let's face it, a lot of people are going to say that, too. Therefore, there may be false data in this system that clearly require a correction, a rethink, but when these specific figures are spoken, I would like to inform you that this is not some kind of mischievousity of the Hungarian government, which is sometimes formulated here, but a common method of calculation in the European Union. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] In many cases... thank you very much, I have listened to you with patience. (Szabolcs Szabó interrupts.) So in this situation, we must say that it is not some individual manipulated data that we are talking about, but this methodology in particular. Obviously, my fellow Member has said that he understands these things, and for the world it is not my intention to try to pass on some new knowledge here, only from the point of view of the methodology. And when you look at the number of jobseekers, interestingly, this EU system of calculation for KSH-European shows fewer numbers than the actual figure. In this situation, I strongly follow it, and perhaps they will accept how authentic it is, and this is the most credible if we work from the National Employment Service data, i.e. we have the classic story: name, address, telephone number, so we have the iks person who is registered as a job seeker. And in this situation, I can tell you that yesterday, it was three hundred and one hundred people with real data content and names. So it's not that the government is just thinking about one thing, and let's just say, he writes 20 grand, or he's reduced it, so it's not such a thrown data, but from the first day of the emergency, from this point of view, these figures are summarized at the end of each day. We don't know any more data than that. What my fellow Member has said here is that, yes, but in this situation, the picture is not the same, let's say, according to school education, it is not the same, let's say, from the point of view of territorial equalization, so there are certainly some of these things in it, and I will never hide them, because they are public anyway. What we are talking about may be school education, if it is free, in terms of school education, I can say that in the case of primary or perhaps unskilled workers, the unemployment rate is tens of a tenths of a percentage, in fact, above the national average and even the EU average; in the case of secondary school education, it is 4.4 percent, or somewhere near the national average; whereas in the case of higher education, college, university, it is less than 2 percent, a whole percentage of a few tenths. In other words, there is no doubt that in this respect there is a much greater chance for people who can get a higher education and stay in the workplace, while those who, let's say, have a lower education or have no qualifications, unfortunately, cannot get a job. In this situation, the government has been accused of cowardice and hesitation, which, by the way, I reject, we have launched a program for all those who have a low school education, to those who are now, so now, tomorrow morning, when the employer or employee in the employment department is applying, they can make an offer that the state will provide 50 per cent of the salary for five months, but a maximum of 100 thousand forints to the employer who employs from this medium, from this group. By the way, employment departments know that. Maybe we'll have to make some more news, be in this together, let's just keep it going. The case of young people, also your KSH. When we've been counted here on me, on us for not caring about this age group, of course we do, we really care. And when we saw that the unemployment rate for young people was higher than the national average, we obviously started a programme for them too. We have launched employment support for people under the age of 25 under similar conditions, and in this situation there is no condition for education. In the case of young people, there was a 30% unemployment rate in 2010, now we are around 13 percent, there are much higher figures in Europe, but this does not comfort anyone, not a young person, not you or me. It seems that these young people also need to be programmed. He hit me in the ear, and he didn't hit me, because I've been listening to him, the voice of our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm, who says that we're throwing at an unemployment rate of 3.2-3,3%. We're not throwing around in the first place, and this unemployment rate is now, to be exact, 4.7 percent. This 3.2-3.3% was true, say, about a year ago, or a little more than a year ago, when, I can really say, Hungary was a peak job, and then you were right to ask me the question, but what a condition it is, Secretary of State, that we can no longer find a painter, we can't find anyone in other construction professions, we can't find someone who cleans up the crop, because simply in the summer of last year, in the autumn of last year, the unemployment rate was 3.2-3.3%. [[17.00]] Unfortunately, due to the known events, this is 4.7, but let me say that if the Hungarian labour market had not been found in such a relative better state, then what would have happened here. When it has been said and thank you, Mr Nacsa, for your support for what the Government has done, it is obviously very moderate in this law, but what we need to see is that there are several stages of defence, several steps. We got a little bit of a deal or they agreed to the number war here, maybe it's a part of it. A concrete point that I must confirm on the basis of the statement by Minister for Finance Mihály Varga and the information he has published is that the employment protection grants have indeed reached 204-207 thousand people. They are the ones whose state has entered into his wages in some way in quotes for a period of time lost, thus ensuring the preservation of his employment. There were, of course, a number of other programmes, which are still running out in a number of cases, because even in the case of those working in research and development and innovation jobs, we have done an intellectual saving, which I can say again is important for all Hungarian Members of Parliament, because it was necessary to see in this period that those highly qualified compatriots were very much started to be bombed from abroad in this emergency. Obviously, we have proof of that. Not as research, but as we hear it, we see the news, because that's what we live in. So these highly qualified people with a relatively recent higher education degree, indeed, in this emergency began to be bombed with almost irrefutable job offers from abroad, in many cases they are called researchers, and in order for the Hungarian economy to have a proper intellectual ammunition in the coming years and decades, we had to keep these people here. Therefore, we had to give this support to these companies. Obviously, I can't tell you much about the details of this and all the backgrounds again, because then I might give the competing countries ideas or information. Job creation programs. They also spoke of these in a dismal way. I would say that this is not the right thing to do, because it has been before, and it is now, as I mentioned earlier, an opportunity for the state to support certain groups or, in a given situation, without any strings attached, workers who want and can stand. What's this story about? You may remember the numbers 6+3, 8+4, 10 plus, I don't know what number it is that during a given period, let's say, for 6 months, the state provides the conditions for employment, and for the next 3 months, it asks the employer to keep that employee. Let's do it. Nine months. We do not know, of course, what will happen from a health point of view, but all those who have applied for this programme by the end of August are safe for 9 months thanks to public employer support and obviously the employee's sacrifice. There were many of them, to be exact, nearly 50,000 of them. In this situation, when this mathematics starts, how many companies the credit moratorium has helped to keep their employees, or how many employees the repeated reduction of the social contribution tax has helped, it is possible to go through them in a certain way, and I think it is not very worthwhile to let go of such a general political bang, because it is a hard mathematics. When you make a statement about the job search fee, I can only say this, but obviously from the previous sentences it is possible to conclude that we do not believe that the person should, in fact, receive a certain amount of money automatically as a registered job seeker for months or longer, because it is not good for anyone. Obviously, we're running out of patience, we're running out of professional knowledge, and we're not even talking about physical orientation, what it's like to have a sense of comfort. That is why we are able to recommend, as we have done for the under-skilled or under-25 young people, and I stress that for young people under 25, this is particularly important for the government to have an offer of support so that they can get to work. What do they say? It's not worth throwing money into the boiler because it doesn't keep you warm. In this situation, the point is that these people should return to the labour market if they are supported, supported, and then obviously later, if the state of the economy improves, then without support. A lot has been said here, but thanks again for today's comments, I can split the opinions into two main parts. One of them certainly supports the need and justification of the bill, which I thank you for. It is natural that we will continue to work out these in detail in consultation with the social partners, and that its complexity is clearly removed. Labour inspections remain a goal, with the maximum objective of worker safety. What individual, political and community opinion is being expressed in this regard this afternoon and evening is a natural consequence of this, but apart from some extreme opinions, I do not feel any negative trend in the fact that everyone is concerned about the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian workers. Believe me, my fellow Members, that no one from me, from my colleagues, from my colleagues, is better. That's what we do, that's what we've been spending our lives on. Obviously, I didn't say how and how we participated in the weekend shifts, and I didn't say that they might have been at the secretary of state during the night hours, and in the hardest days, they managed those who received the customers the next morning directly by telephone, but we swore to do so. There's nothing wrong with that. That's what we do. Please don't assume anything about us is that we want to smuggle some kind of negative thing into this law. The above-mentioned objectives, the legal and physical security of workers, are above all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-03-155	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your comprehensive answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that Vice-President István Hiller will be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the presentation. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. [[Intercoms: monotonous! Dr. István Hiller: You could have voted him down. Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, I now hand over the head of Parliament to Vice President István Hiller. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll probably see you today. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-03-156	Good afternoon. I respectfully welcome you. I'm honored by your trust, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain transport laws until closure. Government referral T/13482. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the legislation in force in the field of rail, shipping, air transport, road transport and passenger transport. [[17.10]] The bill contains amendments to seven laws. The amendment of the Road Transport Act is aimed at three areas. The law regulates the scope of provisions which may be required to pay an infringement fine. This list is added to the scope of the road traffic control and the official measures taken in the course of it. The scope of the determining authorities will be defined in relation to the new point and it will be possible to impose a fine. The amendment will help to combat non-cooperative drivers and enforce enforcement during road inspections. The Road Transport Act provides for the possibility of exemption from payment of an administrative fine. The amendment sets out a new excuse for an administrative procedure based on objective liability, whereby the operator is exempted from the penalty imposed for exceeding the total weight if he is able to present a proper mass statement of the total weight so that his exhibitor can be identified. This will give greater emphasis to the liability of the loader, especially in cases where the driver has no influence on the loader. This will complete the grounds for rescue for the keepers. In the case of non-payment of the user's fee for the use of the tolled road sections, special rules on the service of the surcharge notice should be laid down in order to ensure that the payment obligation is complied with more effectively, making the debtor interested in receiving the surcharge notice. The authorisation necessary for the establishment of these special rules is included in the authorisation provisions of the Road Transport Act. The amendment to the Aviation Act allows detailed rules for imposing a fine on air transport, given their increased importance, to be laid down in a government decree instead of a ministerial decree. The need to amend the Road Transport Register Act is based on the fact that instead of the notary of the local government, the tax authority may request the data required from the Road Transport Register to carry out the taxation of motor vehicles. The amendment of the Water Transport Act contains legislative harmonisation and clarification provisions to ensure consistency with EU legislation. The amending provisions concern the Rail Transport Act in three areas. In order to ensure the safe operation of rail transport, the institution of system integrity testing will be introduced as part of the official authorisation procedure. The purpose of this system is to ensure that the rail subsystem or subsystems with construction, conversion or upgrading are properly integrated into the rail system. Compliance with this condition shall be assessed by the Transport Authority in a system integrity test based on a risk assessment. Upon installation, the applicant shall demonstrate by means of a certificate issued by an independent conformity assessment body that the state of completion complies with the system integrity requirements adopted by the Authority in the construction authorisation procedure. By amending the Rail Transport Act, it is possible to separate safety certificates for rail-electric passenger activities on urban rail networks from interoperable rail systems. In view of the specificities of the rail-electric systems, the additional provision incorporated is intended to ensure that the rail-electric rating takes the same approach in the authorisation procedures in view of the uniform application of the Railway Act. The amendment made in order to properly establish the aid scheme for certain carriages by rail empowers the development of the aid scheme and the designation of the operating organisation and, in relation to the aid, provides for an exception to the specific provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Government Decree implementing it. The amendment of the Passenger Transport Services Act aims at reviewing, simplifying and clarifying the current use of the Act, with a view to achieving a fully coherent use of the term. The amendment of the Tax Code is intended to support more effective monitoring of the activities of companies operating in the market for passenger taxi services and passenger passenger transport services, as well as measures to promote the whitening of the market. As a result of the amendment, the obligation to provide information to the transport authority is imposed on the State tax and customs authorities where the body establishes a breach of the obligation to provide relief in connection with the personal taxi or passenger passenger transport services in an official decision. The transport authority may, in accordance with the information provided, examine the conditions for withdrawal of the authorisation of activity and the prohibition from carrying out the activity. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-03-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mainnote speakers will be held. Mr Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, is the first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-159	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As you've heard in the expozee, the T/13482 on the amendment of individual traffic laws in front of us. The purpose of the legislative proposal is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the legislation in force in the field of rail, shipping, air transport, road transport and passenger transport. By adopting the bill, road control processes will become more effective. A number of procedures that are essential to the rail system and the provisions of the proposal will whiten the economy and improve the conditions of competition will be assessed in national competence. Dear House, The bill amends the road transport law in three areas. The need for amendments is confirmed by the increasing frequency of road inspections in which persons to be subject to checks do not comply with the request of the authorities empowered to carry out checks. The safety and smoothness of road transport is an important social interest. The essential condition for safe and undisturbed transport is for everyone to keep the rules of transport and to expect others to keep them. Unfortunately, on numerous occasions, the driver interferes with the performance of the inspection activity. The Road Transport Act regulates infringements in respect of which the keeper of the motor vehicle may be held liable. In such cases, if the driver does not agree with the decision, he may, in the cases provided for by law, use a rescue or a request for proof. With regard to the road sections subject to charges, the proposal lays down specific rules for the service of the charge notice in the event of non-payment of the user's fee for the use of such road sections in order to ensure that the payment obligation is complied with more effectively. Dear Parliament, As far as road transport is concerned, it is important to note that since 2010 the government has paid particular attention to the development of the Hungarian road network. At the launch of the budget road programme of HUF 3200 billion, half of the Hungarian settlements and nearly one third of the residents had the opportunity to reach a motorway within half an hour. By 2025, it will be true for three quarters of the Hungarian settlements and nine out of ten Hungarians to live 30 minutes away from the motorway network. Following faster and more convenient access between rural cities and priority economic areas, elements of the national ring can be built. One of these is the future M9, which will lead from Sopron to Szombathely, Zalaegerszeg, Keszthely, Kaposvár, Pécs, Mohács, Szeged, Békéscsaba and Debrecen to Nyíregyháza. It is a special pleasure for me that Veszprém has the largest infrastructure investment so far in order to modernise the southern bypass. [[17.20]] Dear House, The amendment of the Rail Transport Act allows for the introduction of a system integration test. As rail consists of several subsystems, for example rail tracks, energy supply, train control systems and safety equipment, crew and rolling stock, interconnection of subsystems as a system is only possible if these subsystems are able to communicate with each other. The subsystems themselves must be made up of rails, transmissions, overhead contact lines, traffic control devices, indicators and the rest, which also form a round whole system. The rail system works well when all its components, subsystems and constituents are integrated into the whole. Within the framework of the system economy, it shall be assessed that the subsystem, the constituent, which is carried out, is not left out of the whole, is capable of operating effectively and reliably. It is important to note that rail development in Hungary has continued on a large scale in recent years. In Budapest, the reconstruction of Nyugati Railway Station and Keleti Railway Station has already begun, and is expected to be completed in 2021 and 22nd. In connection with priority railway development, the agglomeration development, the renovation of the Budapest-Veresegyház-Vác and Budapest-Lajosmizse routes, tracks, stations, P+R parking lots, electrification, speed increase and the development of the Szeged-Röszke railway line are expected to take place in 2021-22. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill aims to increase the effectiveness of road checks by amending the road transport law, bearing in mind road safety, and the establishment of specific rules for the delivery of a surcharge notice will help to ensure better compliance with the payment obligation. In the case of the Railway Transport Act, the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that the rail system is operated as a single system and to facilitate the implementation of government aid in connection with the implementation of rail-electricity and rail single-car transport. I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-160	Thank you very much. Congressman Balázs Ander, lead speaker of the Betterman, please.
u2020-11-03-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that when we talk about transport, it should always be mentioned that this is the sector that accounts for more than 5 percent of domestic GDP. It also serves the prosperity of tens of thousands of people by creating jobs for them here, thus guaranteeing a real livelihood for tens of thousands of families. If we are thinking only of 300 million tonnes of goods that have been transported annually, then we really have to realise that this is an area that may in many cases seem to be very simple and not really affecting anyone when it comes to us in the form of a legislative amendment, but this is not so, if we think more about the importance and significance of this, then we have to see this. If we are talking about this bill, which, by the way, intends to amend seven previous laws, we will be allowed to highlight certain shortcomings, and I ask that this should not be offended in the pro-government benches. If my fellow Member, Ovádi, on behalf of Fidesz, could have talked about the wonderful improvements that would be made here, if this were to happen in a transparent way, not overpriced, and not by increasing Lőrince and her family, but by truly serving the interests of the Hungarian people, I would like once again to ask you not to resent the fact that we, on the other hand, will reveal certain shortcomings in this regard from the opposition benches. Well, if we look at the first point of the legislative amendment proposal, then this concerns Act I of 1988 on road transport, and we can fully agree that road traffic control should be strengthened where appropriate. It must be tightened because road safety must be a priority for all responsible people. Let us compare statistics that describe, say, Sweden and look at the series of data on domestic road accidents. This means that in Hungary there are around 15,000 accidents with personal injuries each year, which is shockingly high, and if we look at the number of deaths per million, we see that this is almost three times the level in Sweden. There, for one million inhabitants, there are 22 deaths and 62 deaths in Hungary. You may ask how the hell this thing is brought here by this opposition representative in this context. Just so that if, let us say, in this amendment of the law, you write about overweight vehicles, their increased control and the enforcement of the law-abiding behaviour, quite rightly, I will also have to look at the state of these roads here in Hungary, which are based on the money of Hungarian taxpayers, due to the negative externalities caused by heavy goods vehicles. The study of the Air Task Force many years ago says that it is about EUR 3 billion per year, which, however we calculate, has now reached a level of at least HUF 1000 billion per year in terms of the position of the forints reaching its historic low point. Forty percent of this is also responsible for transit traffic, for heavy goods vehicles' raging transit through our country. If it's possible to hold it down a little with such rules, then we can say from Jobbik's benches that we can vote for this because it's a noble and good goal. However, where appropriate, not only the damage to foreign heavy goods vehicles, such oversized, overweight vehicles should be considered, but also, for example, to Döbökkik in a narrower Patriam, South Somogy in thousands of hectares, and, say, to their heavy goods vehicles, supported by billions of land-based subsidies and still with a variety of state-owned billions, and, where appropriate, thirty-tons of manure, which may crush the roads between villages. I would ask the Secretary of State that, if such signals come to you, and they come to me, too, because they find me with these perfectly legitimate complaints, they should act, and they should not close their eyes, they should not be anointed, but, if they must, step up, because these Döbögiks spread over thousands of hectares of latifundiums should not only tread the roads, but they should also be warned that there would indeed be an obligation beyond the billions of land-based and such subsidies they have taken in their pockets, even to pay attention to. We can also read this from this bill amendment proposal, by the way. So I'll show you our constructivity towards pro-government intent, just asking for these voices to be heard. The proposed amendment also concerns the stages covered by the fee, their duration and usage charges, and the fact that this will be a ministerial regulation. Please, Jobbik has had a proposal for years that you will sweep off the table to replace this ten-day freeway sticker with a one-day freeway sticker. I think it is really a nonsense situation that, when we look at the fees payable in each EU country and compare them with the prices of domestic e-vignettes, we should see how expensive, let us say, the annual motorway pass in Hungary is, and especially if we compare it to the wages here, we see a real overtaxation of Hungarian citizens. If, in connection with this, I can once again recommend this proposal to the Secretary of State, which, in our opinion, would be in the interest of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, since why should it be, say, obliged to buy a ten-day e-vignette, those who come up for a half-day administration, if any, from the countryside to Budapest, would be asked to think about it. With regard to points 2 and one after that, we really do not have so much to say here in relation to air transport and water transport. [[17 .30]] We can support the ideas that have been formulated. I would also like to add only one principle: Unfortunately, the amendment proposal does not mention the share of the water freight mode within the total freight volume, since if there is an environmentally friendly mode of transport in Hungary, it can be water transport. And if we look at these shares, the current rate of 3 per cent could be raised with greater care and a corresponding transport policy up to 10 per cent, which could significantly reduce the negative externalities I have already mentioned, which affects road freight transport. In this way, serious taxpayers could save billions for the Hungarian people. Point 4 is, of course, the 1999 LXXXIV on the Road Transport Register. It concerns the law. In fact, this could be the point in this smaller change of law salad package that you've brought before us, so we can argue more seriously. What's the story about? Until 2013, the car tax was entirely due to the municipalities. Therefore, the municipal notary had the right to read and request the registration data, since it was the municipal tax authority that managed this revenue. Then came the corona virus epidemic, and 2013, sorry, when you shared this in such a way that 60 percent of such revenues were taken by the Hungarian state, 40 percent remained in the municipalities. And now, when the coronal virus outbreak came, the first round was only temporarily taken to the epidemiology fund. However, what we see now is that this will be permanently withdrawn from the municipalities. It is true that it is possible to defend that this is not a large item overall, so it affects a few tenths of the municipal budget, but I can see that my fellow Member Nacsa nodded on this, and that is what the local authorities concerned argue, which in such a way are smearing, that this was a relatively free-to-use amount. Theoretically, although it had to be spent on renovating and maintaining the own roads, it could be used for other things, and these relatively small amounts might also be missing from the settlements' lives. The other is the principle, let us say, that we have reservations about this, because there has not been a change of regime here in the area of local government, either, so that you can quasi restore the council system and take everything away from the municipalities. This is completely contrary to our approach to democracy. What kind of democracy you are thinking about and what role and role you have for the local authorities, but another issue is that we cannot support it at all. By the way, we have seen that by 2012-13 the debts of the settlements have become around 1300 billion forints, then this, we call it consolidation. However, the fact is that since then, this debt has grown again, and if you are now, if you are still, where appropriate, from a pro-government bench, a small amount of money, which represents a small share, but you are drawing away, and you are sabotaging the municipalities instead of supporting them, then the tasks that you are leaving behind with the municipality will be more and more difficult for these municipalities to carry out. On the whole, for next year, this issue concerns some HUF 87 billion. In our opinion, it would really be a better place than the municipalities. Point 5 on rail transport; I have a great deal of incentive to bring things up now... Otherwise, the Budapest-Belgrád railway is obviously completely insane and consumes 1000 billion forints, it is completely wrong, and then it is very subtle. [[Lőrinc Nacsa to Dr. László Keresztes to Lóránt:]] However, I would like to point out that my fellow Member Nacsa should also be a little calmer and see the constructivity that we can say that this is a perfectly good proposal with regard to rail single carriage. From an environmental point of view, this would be very important. And the creation of these exceptional rules and the state aid system should be fully supported from here, from Jobbik's benches. But then I'll just have to recreate the $1,000 billion item that will go out to this 160-mile stretch. I am talking about the domestic section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, and we can now talk about at least this amount of 6 billion per kilometer, of which a huge portion has been broken up by your home cashier for your family company. So, here's the thing: if I could use a lot of wasted, squandered, smoked, and much more serious adjectives to think of money, then I have to say that these amounts would have a much better return, let's say, in a field like this, than some lines of what you're talking about in this amendment of the law. The following is the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. Law: This could be a good thing too. If, of course, national, regional or suburban transport is to be coordinated and this single conciliation procedure is to be introduced and local specificities are to be taken into account, then we can say that if this is indeed happening and it is not only spoken of in principle that we miss the specific responsibility of the bill, then we can say that this is a good proposal for rural preservation, which can also be supported. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we ask you that this, which you have written, should not remain a written elasz, be taken seriously in practice, and that you hear the complaints of the settlements that find us, and we try to convey it to you; when it is simply impossible to go to a nearby city, because the timetables have not been coordinated in such a way that, for an ordinary citizen, rural life is in many cases becoming a curse. We don't want that. We stand on a national basis, on a conservative basis, and say that Hungary is a value in the countryside, it must also be preserved in this way that these issues are taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-162	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP leader. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have talked here in recent months about railway lines, the Budapest-Belgrád project and, by the way, about issues concerning various parts of transport, road renovations. In this way, I have also prepared a slightly broader interpretation of the subject, as the Secretary of State has said, the necessary regulatory harmonisation in railway, shipping, air transport, road and passenger transport areas and, which is very important, the legislative proposal before us contains also very important changes to economic whitening. From the outset, the national Christian Democratic Government has placed particular emphasis on rail development. Our goal is for the Hungarian railway to regain its old legendary reputation again, and for Hungary to be XXI. Modern, comfortable and fast rail transport of the century. Of course, Fidesz-KDNP was not easy in this area either in 2010, because the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-tandem, which is engaged in the robbery, entered the history book in addition to austerity, reductions and tax increases as anti-rail government. After all, under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány, MÁV Cargo Zrt., the profitable freight transport subsidiary of MÁV was sold to the Austrian state railway company. Robbery privatisation, a historical crime, was one of Hungary's worst strategic decisions after the change of regime, and likewise the sale of the airport, utilities and a number of companies of major importance to foreign companies for small amounts of money. Under the governance of the left, it caused HUF 300 billion in debt to MÁV, eliminated 38 railway lines at 1,300 kilometers, and hit the Hungarian railway with HUF 70 billion restrictions. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments announced mass redundancies at the MÁV, leaving railway lines, stations, railway stations and tracks to an astonishing extent to be destroyed, the vehicle stock was barely developed, so by 2010 Hungarians could travel on one of the oldest railway trains and tracks in Europe. [[17.40]] The Fidesz-KDNP government was the first to settle the debt of MÁV, increase the wages of railway workers, and spend more than ever on rail development of HUF 1700 billion. During the period of civil government, the track renovation takes place at 660 kilometers, electrification at 440 kilometers, and a new trail is built at 200 kilometers. About 80 new Stadler FLIRT trains were put on the market between 2013 and 2019, and 40 new high-capacity Stadler KISS trains have been placed on the market since this year. Also this year, the MÁV launched a tender for 115 new electric locomotives, and 70 new IC cars are arriving continuously, which are produced in Hungary in the Szolnok Vehicle Repair. Tram-train, i.e. tram-train, running as a tram in urban areas and between settlements as a railway, is currently underway in a hybrid way between Szeged and Hódmezővásárhely. On the tram-rail 12 new hybrid diesel-electric Stadler CityLink vehicles will be running, which are expected to be on the market next year. In part, the bill before us includes the necessary amendments to address the problems arising from the implementation of the Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely tram-train. As this is a novelty in the domestic context and will be the first to achieve such a train, the amendment will therefore settle the authorisation and other special conditions for the railway safety certificate. The bill also aims to improve the effectiveness of road checks by amending the road transport law, bearing in mind road safety, and to promote more effective compliance with the payment obligation by laying down specific rules on the service of the surcharge notice. The Fidesz-KDNP government will spend 3200 billion forints on the renewal of the road network. Our aim is to ensure that every county seat is connected to the motorway network in the coming years, that the motorway network is accessible from all Hungarian settlements with a maximum half an hour's journey, and that motorways reach the border in all cases, most of all connecting Hungary to the regional and European motorway network. On the other hand, with only M5 and M6 motorways, the Gyurcsány government caused damage to the country by HUF 2853 billion. Once again, all this could have been spent on rail development and road development, this is HUF 2853 billion, and when opposition representatives ask the question or tell them what else they think should be done, think about what could have been done from this HUF 2853 billion, which the left could have done to the country by means of PPP constructions, only with the M5-M6 motorway. Even now, we still have to pay approximately HUF 150 billion a year, up to 2040, because at that time Gyurcsányek concluded a harmful contract. The bill also contains an amendment to the Act on the Rules of Taxation. It aims to impose stricter conditions on passenger and passenger transport operators in the event of a failure to provide a receipt. The amendment therefore also serves to whiten the economy in the field of passenger transport, as stricter rules allow for the withdrawal of operating licences and temporary ban on activities. The KDNP fraction supports both the objectives of harmonisation and the objectives of economic whitening, which is why we can also support the bill. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Gyula Molnár, lead speaker of the MSZP Group, please.
u2020-11-03-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to introduce a new political concept. So far, we've always used the term "supplier law." I would now like to use the term "sandwich law" in two senses. On the one hand, who has drawn up today's agendas, I think he thought that between two very intense debates he would put in a light debate, a pleasant debate where we could agree with each other, although I can see that everyone is in a serious struggle for how and how they can correctly include lead messages even in this debate. On the other hand, I consider this a sandwich law because we see in the middle the extremely attractive and crispy-looking beef slice with the delicious cheese, we see the tasty salad and sauces, but for some reason they always put it between two dry buns, and this makes it somehow so insatiable. For some reason, I sometimes get the feeling that it's actually a deliberate tactical move, so that after that it can be said later in a debate anyway, not with a little slip, that the excellent proposal was here, you would have liked to have supported it, wouldn't you? Just as we are suffering from this matter here, my good fellow Member has tried to balance it here, that we really, so well want to support some things in this regard, it seems so good to have good directions for road transport. I wanted to bring the matter of rail transport here myself. Whether I say, obviously as a capital city, any rule that puts taxiing in the normal Western European lane, all of these must and will be supported, and then we will face proposals that simply make it impossible for us to support this law as a whole with a good feeling and a good taste. I'd like to talk to you about road transport. Everyone took a detour like this today, as if it were part of the law. It's a little different. Today, my fellow Member, Zsolt Molnár, has held a press conference, and has also tabled a motion about this point, and I would like to share with you a little in line with that point, that we are increasingly sensing that the kind of law-abiding behaviour, the driving without a license, or those who have their driver's licenses revoked, when, if any, they come back in the common language as drivers without a licence, and they are causing a very serious tragedy and trouble for many times now, we believe that this is a legal vacuum or a place worth re-regulating and rethinking. So we propose in this bill, which has been submitted, and I ask that you also consider supporting this, that this should be excluded from the scope of the infringements, and that there should be a crime who, once again, leads, in public language, not using the legal jargon, without a driver's license. As far as aviation rules are concerned, it is very difficult to forget that until October 2019 there has been no problem with the right of municipal authorities to have a say in what their official position is about noise loads. Interestingly, since the municipalities called oppositions appeared on the bright skies of local governments, suddenly it seems that this rule is an obstacle to something. But why is that? Let's take a look around the world. The people we are talking about are the people, the citizens, or we call them voters who vote here or there in one way or another. The noise burden does not vary from this point of view between the colour of local authorities and the colour of the mayor. Mr Secretary of State, you may recall that I have already been in plenary in this House regarding the noise load of my constituency, Budafok-Tétény, when the air corridors changed, there was a rather significant change in the suburban area compared to then, causing very serious problems, and one of the most important issues was what type of negotiations took place. And then I got a rather harsh rejection that I may not have had to submit it to this wallet at the time, but I am now in doubt for a moment, but in any case I presume and I would like to continue to say that, as far as any complaints concerning air transport are concerned, it is not a matter of administrative procedure. It's not about the Ministry being able to coordinate properly with the FAA. It is about how people feel, how all the changes in regulation take into account how and how they think in that settlement. And I will say this again, but the point is that it is the municipal government, the mayor, the mayor's leadership that is most capable of displaying, where appropriate, that kind of local interest in decision-making. So, as far as amending the aviation law is concerned, this is unacceptable to us as a basic principle. Once again, it is very difficult for us to forget the simple point that this is once again an actual policy amendment, which is specifically the story of the last year. [[17.50]] In the Road Transport Register Act, my fellow Member said that I would like to repeat it once again, to add some additional arguments and arguments that there are many ways to reduce the autonomy of a local government: it is possible to reduce people's powers and reduce them by reducing their money, because then they will inevitably be able to do less. The real art that you are doing, honourable Members, is that you can do both at the same time, so you are losing power, and your financial part is being squeezed, and indeed, you are putting local governments in an increasingly hopeless and difficult situation. The $1,300 billion debt transfer number has been said. Last time, Minister of Finance used it in a debate that, if we look at it, this entire municipal system has a reserve of 1,200 billion, and we must play a role together in a difficult time, in an emergency. My answer to the principle is that, of course, that is the case, but just as I do not consider the transfer of 1300 billion in this way to be entirely correct, I think that this problem needs to be seen in a much more differentiated way. 'Cause who's got this 1200? Billion? And who are we going to take the money we're taking from now? And someone calculated what the change in the business tax will be like by the end of 2020 and 2021, because obviously the Hungarian economy is talking about a 6.5 percent decline in the government, obviously the decrease will be largely composed of business taxes from local small companies. So today I predict that, even for a more efficient municipality, these items together could lead to a 10% reduction in its budget. And if we add it all up and it obviously has to work, obviously it can't be a local government that doesn't have such a quicksand that changes its course in a minute, obviously in order to reorganize itself, to rethink its tasks, it takes time, money, obviously, and obviously, it's gonna be missing from development money. So these money that is now being taken away in the short term is missing. And what happens on the other side? Some selected municipalities will receive this development money by some logic from the government, they will get it back, and those who are not friendly municipalities will not get it back. And there will be a situation of imbalances between local authorities that some people can make improvements, and some people will not be able to do anything at all. Now, that's what I find very cynical. And I think that this was born in a political workshop that once again plays with people in an unacceptable way. Because what we all need to understand is that it's exactly the essence of the municipal system that you've forgotten for some reason over the last 30 years. It is really worth watching the Fidesz speeches or programs of the nineties, when they really said that the division of power, the separation of power; that decisions should be made where the most information is; that decision-making should be pushed down as much as possible, especially about decisions about locally created money. Those were such wonderfully beautiful principles where are they? Why do you think the state is the smartest? I understand that you are the smartest, I understand that you know everything about the world, I understand that everything you make is the best in the world, the only problem is that the time has passed, and the Hungarian people and many people in the world have thrown it into the dump once, because it turns out that decisions are made much more expensively, with much less efficiency and not in a positive way for everyone. Yeah, you're gonna have to run the health care, but you're gonna have to drive it. Tell me what education is, but tell me what education is. Take care of road transport. Take care of everything, but leave, for example, the things of social care to those who are closer to the person who really has problems. We will not be able to resolve and resolve this debate in connection with this law either, but I would just like to point out that this has been included in this law, because all these months we have been talking about the withdrawal of this tax, that any such centralisation is unacceptable to us, so obviously, while, once again, we would like to say good things about road transport, we would say positive sentences about rail transport, but all of this is in parentheses because these items are included in such a proposal. And I am truly sorry for Mr. Secretary of State, who is obviously an excellent professional, that you will have to be here in some way to answer or even to say something. But what I can say to you, however, and I will spare you the further discussion of the fact that it is a bill containing good elements, but overall, we will not be able to support this bill in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zoltán Varga, lead speaker for DK. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I've been told a lot of things here by my fellow Members about the law. Allow me to start with two, perhaps more personal examples. First of all, our pro-government representatives are not in an easy position, because they have been ruling for too long, I think, longer than they should have been. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's a matter of perspective!]] That's right. And that way, terrible schizoid situations can develop. For example, with regard to airport privatisation, we have heard from Congressman Nacsa the great sentence that there has been a robbery-privatisation of the airport. Then let me tell you, Congressman, a secret for you: in 2011, Lajos Kósa sold the airport to his friends in Debrecen. At that time, he convinced the opposition in long-term general meetings, including me, that the best thing in the world was to have the airport in private hands, because only a private investor could operate the airport well. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But foreign?]] No, a Hungarian, however. See, this is the schizoid situation I'm talking about. Then, interestingly, this year, however, the current mayor thought that the municipality could run the airport well, so we bought the airport back from this company. I have to add, basically since then we have seen that the airport has to spend incredible sums, but it has lost its profits. So that's it for the airport. With regard to air transport, let me note that we understand the position, but I believe that because the airport is both a blessing and a curse in the life of a municipality, the part of the curse should be regulated by the law as far as possible. And that's where I'm thinking about the environmental strain that we were talking about. Although Debrecen is still, thank God, not in such a lively situation as Budapest or municipalities with other airports, but there are now complaints... which are obviously not during the crisis, but on an average flight day, either in terms of noise load or in many cases the airport or flight directions go over urban areas, and residents believe that kerosene can cause environmental problems. With regard to the motorway: I, as a rural representative, travel a lot on the motorway, and I think that, on the one hand, those who say that it is a kind of a shame that people who want to use the motorway service for a day have to buy a ten-day freeway sticker and introduce the one-day sticker in any way. The other: I think the freeway sticker is nothing more than the purchase of a service. When I buy or rent a freeway sticker or even use this service, I buy that for the money that I pay and add that we are not talking about a small amount of money, I get the opportunity to travel quickly and safely on this highway as much as possible. The M3 motorway is characterized by the fact that it is always closed in one of its parts, and 90 percent of traffic jams are not caused by unfortunate and potential accidents, but because of road renovations and road maintenance, which otherwise are carried out with incredible slowness by road operators. And I think there is a solution where I buy that service, then I expect the service tax to do everything in my power to get the service I need for my money. And obviously, in addition to air transport and road transport, the bill also talks about shipping and rail transport and transport. I find it strange in the law: in the case of a service carried out by means of railway electricity, a very long, rather complicated sentence is now followed by an operating licence issued to the railway undertaking and an announcement by the infrastructure manager of the type of infrastructure covered by the service may differ from the infrastructure covered by the service and the type of infrastructure covered by the technical authorisation for the rail electricity and the type of vehicle and the type of railway safety licence issued for the infrastructure concerned by the service and the type of railway safety certificate for the operation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[18.00]] This is the sentence, which seems a little steep at first, and even on the second, that is, the text of the proposal is interesting if you try to make sense of it at all. After all, one wonders whether this long, devious sentence does not want or prepare that a project already exists on the horizon of the legislative event, which simply does not comply with the certifications, and thus prepares the loophole, so that it can be done in practice even if the project does not comply with them. We see that, on the basis of the proposal, the proposal provided for in the Ministerial Regulation on detailed conditions for the State aid scheme for certain carriages by rail does not need to include the conditions for the use of budgetary aid, including the terms of the grant contract, the required guarantees for the recovery of aid unduly used and the reference to the obligation to carry out a possible procurement procedure. This is also a nice sentence, but it does not show at all why all of this is necessary, why discharge is necessary, what is the purpose of the legislator, what it would like to achieve or help in this matter. It doesn't tell me that at all. We know very well that rail freight is not in an easy situation, and it is quite recent that rail freight companies are asking the Minister of Innovation and Technology to reduce the network access fee they pay from 1 March 2020 to the end of the year. By doing so, companies want the government to release the extra fee, which in practice would give them a HUF 6.1 billion discount. Otherwise, I must say that the applications of the signatories are in line with the EU Regulation or the requirements for the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. According to the letter signed by the Hungarian Railway Association, the two members of the Hungrail Presidency and the president of the Organization's freight committee, this year's performance in the domestic railway sector could fall by 15 percent and up to 25 percent in some segments, due to the economic downturn caused by the epidemic. Obviously, the situation with regard to rail freight is clearly aggravated by the rise in these fixed costs due to a reduction in performance. As a result of the lower volume, the network access fee per tonne is increasing and therefore the freight charges are expected to be even higher. Otherwise, the signatories refer, and I must add, quite rightly, to the fact that other countries have already taken action in this matter, or have otherwise announced that they will take action to mitigate the damage to the railways. According to the letter, any domestic government decisions on the benefit should be taken by the government by November of this year at the latest, so it should be taken by the government to this day. Because of the economic downturn in the first half of 2020, it is about 2 million huge numbers! Hungarian rail freight traffic decreased by tonnes, and while there was no greater improvement in the second half of the year, we know very well and even see the pandemic situation as it gets worse, the constant costs of railway companies are increasing. DK takes the view that the sector needs urgent assistance, that by reducing track access charges it would be able to breathe and maintain its ability to provide logistics to the national economy. We believe that the government has no more time, that it must act immediately in this matter, because we can see it very well, the situation on this front is only getting worse. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-168	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, If we cut down on party policy speeches, we can say that there is a general transport policy debate here, which I am not surprised at at all. At times, there will be a salad law concerning transport policy before the Parliament, which can be said to deal with detailed regulations, but there will be no proposal before the Parliament to draw a strategic picture of the government's transport policy or how the government intends to implement the fundamental reforms that have been being discussed for long years. These can be caught here and there, and we can see concrete decisions, for example, it was a fundamental decision that Volánbusz was placed under the MÁV, ownership rights are now exercised by the MÁV, and there are different actors and people here and there talking about some kind of plan that some super-large public transport company would be created. We don't know anything about that. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is why we, all of us, and why professional operators, should not be able to see it in concrete terms, is not possible to plan how the government intends to touch this extremely important sector of national strategic importance. My fellow Members have described very, very long why this sector is of particular importance. We also do not see what concrete steps the government would take to comply with regrettably commitments such as the opening up of the road transport market next year. We have said many times in relation to various debates that we are very strongly opposed to the need to open up the market in such a strategic sector as Community transport and to allow more private players in greater numbers. This is already the case in local community transport. But this is an EU obligation, on which we have asked for concessions in many cases, and I understand that in two years there will be a situation where, with forced application, perhaps once Mr Secretary of State has indicated this, we can win a little more, two years' delay, but how we can prepare. So how can public transport companies or companies be prepared to meet this extremely serious challenge? I am thinking here, basically, about the replacement of the fleet, its development, its financing background, but here I am thinking of a fundamental regulatory issue that can create the most important thing, the guarantees of service. My fellow Member, Mr Ander, has already said that the quality of rural community transport has been unsolved or barely resolved for many long decades, in order to ensure the frequency of flights, in order to stop the detachment of rural areas. In this regard, I would also like the Secretary of State to say a few words, either during the debate or in the closing. My fellow Members mentioned several times, especially Mr Gyula Molnár, the operation of the municipalities, the local opportunities and the provision of resources. Here is a very, very serious system problem, similar to a serious system problem with railways. This is a question of financing public transport. I'm not going to go into this for long, I think it's clear to everyone that these companies are in a difficult situation anyway, but now, due to the economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic and other circumstances, transport companies have suffered very serious losses. Now we can see that the government is practically pulling out of the financing of local public transport. I also think that it is not worth discussing for a long time what the consequences will be if these companies suffer such significant losses and will be forced, let us say, to reduce the service of public transport by local authorities. This will be reflected in air pollution, other pollution, but also the risk of accidents, congestion will increase, health damage, and the rest, all of which will be clearly linked to the reduction in the quality of local public transport, the frequency of flights. And that's where we're going, given the difficult situation these companies are in and the reduction in funding and resources. Here, I would like to ask for your help, Mr. Secretary. I have already asked Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, there is a serious contradiction that the government made a decision last year calling on Minister Palkovics to develop a model of public funding for local public transport by spring, perhaps by May. I was a little surprised when I asked him that, I don't know how the Minister managed to put something on the government's table. The parallel of the contradiction is that on the other hand, on the other hand, a decision was made before the National Assembly that the state would virtually withdraw from the financing of local public transport by requiring that the business tax should be used for this first and practically abandoned the municipalities, which, obviously, in the case of a service which is in itself burdensome, is almost equivalent to the impossible in such an epidemiological period. I would also be interested to see that there have been a significant number of railway developments, but there are still huge problems with the track, where there will be significant resources for maintenance of the track, renovations. We have been debating the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in several cases for long and long hours. Indeed, a thousand billion were immediately removed from the system. How can this thousand billion be replaced when it would have been absolutely clear and clearly necessary to improve the important elements of this infrastructure? [[18.10]] I would also like to ask when there will be a substantial change in the situation of workers in the sector, whether in terms of wages or the provision of working conditions, and how the government is forecasting a shortage of professionals in the next period. This has obviously been a huge challenge for the industry because of poor working conditions and low wages for many years, which again has an impact on the travelling public. But I think we should definitely talk about it. Here I would like to respond to some of the ideas expressed in the debate. Mr Péter Ovádi is not present at the moment, the lead speaker of Fidesz, described for a relatively long time, like Congressman Nacsa, how much improvement the government has made over the past period and how much it has improved on the Hungarian road network. Here, too, I would like to ask you a question, Mr President, but then I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State or, perhaps, Mr Nacsa, how the situation might be getting worse. We've had an argument here before about the fact that something happened to the water utilities, not what happened, whether it was sufficient or not. Similarly, if we are talking about data that there are 17,000 kilometers of domestic inferior roads in the wrong or inappropriate category, then again you have not taken any steps towards the solution, because every year this number is increasing. So they are not working off the already significant problem, which was, by definition, very serious in 2010, but they are increasing the problem, because every year, this year again, the government provided a source for the renovation of 450 kilometers of lower roads. But I repeat, there are 17,000 kilometers of extremely bad weather here, and year after year, the length of roads that will require no more renovation, but virtually reconstruction. So we're not going to solve the problems, but we're going deeper and deeper. This is Congressman Ovadi talking about various motorway improvements. In the first place, we have the very strong opinion that we need to achieve improvements here, not even in the motorway network, but in the lower road network, which has a load-bearing function. This is basically necessary in order to reduce the huge territorial differences, and rural development can indeed be successful. But I also have a few questions about highway development. There have been promises long and long ago that the motorways, which have not yet reached the border, will reach them by a certain deadline. It's not personal. I'd like to take a local example. Now I will spare you the list of how many times Viktor Orbán has personally promised when the M6 motorway will be completed to the border. I'll tell you that one of the last promises he made in person in 2015 was that the M6 motorway would reach the border by 2018. I understand that we are now perhaps, perhaps, very close to starting work. However, in the case of the M60, the situation seems a little more worrying. There was the Prime Minister's promise to start construction in two directions until 2018, from Barcs on the one hand and from Pécs to Barcs on the other. Here, too, the aim is to reach the Croatian border. But now, in the last few weeks, we've been hearing information that another year of planning is going to be delayed. What's to be expected about that? Congressman Nacsa, by the way, quite rightly, has attacked the Balliberal governments by pursuing anti-rail policy, in a manner of speaking, that they have conducted a rail-destructive policy. There were measures to attack railway sidelines. But, Congressman, that's exactly what you've been doing this year. In the case of 34 railway sidelines, transport was virtually nullified by unprofessional decisions referring to the epidemiological agenda. We have had an argument here with Mr. Secretary of State. As I have followed the events, perhaps ten cases of these measures have been withdrawn, apparently not because of professional pressure, but because of local political pressure. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to get back to you on that. Do you really believe that in the epidemiological situation, which is now again getting worse, unfortunately to a shocking extent, buses and replacement buses are a safer transport option than wagons with significantly higher capacity? I think that this decision should be reviewed very quickly, and I would also be interested in what is behind this concept and what role is intended for the railway sidelines. We have a very strong belief that these should not be dismantled, but that the infrastructure should be developed and the resources created to ensure that they are in such a condition that they can actually fulfil the important functions for which these sidelines have been built. I'd like to come back here very briefly to one more thought. Congressman Nacsa was almost expecting us to talk about the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. We know that with everything, including interest, this will amount to about 1,000 billion. How do we understand the weight of this investment: only this year and next year, based on your calculations, we can say that this project is being spent so much money that it would be sufficient to create 175 thousand new jobs. In view of this very shocking economic crisis, I believe that the minimum is to justify why this huge amount is spent on this project. They couldn't put down any supporting documents. They could not prove that if this development was completed, and, let's say, not only the border section, but indeed the plan is obviously a long-term plan here, so that if we look at the overall achievement of the port of Pyreus, if those certain improvements are made at a full stage, then there is some guarantee that this will be used for freight transport at all, and if this is done, when the huge source of this investment will be recovered from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Here, the achievement of the port of Pyreus is the declared goal, and in parallel, there are various plans to open a port in Trieste, open a seaport, and now the government is dreaming of a Copernican seaport. Minister Szijjártó said that if Hungary had a seaport for a long time only Trieste, it would serve the transport needs of all domestic companies. Then what is the relevance of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project? And if, despite all this, they have never been able to answer these questions here in the past, that if, despite all of this, you hold that this is a project that is not a betrayal of national interests by spending 1000 billion on such a project that can be shown in terms of Chinese interests, then why have the documents of this project been encrypted for ten years, and why must Members now sue to get to know these documents? And obviously, it is neither the purpose nor the importance of Members to get to know these documents, but to show the Hungarian people exactly what HUF 1000 billion will be spent on, on what basis of the underlying documents, because although this project is implemented in a significant part by Chinese credit, it will have to be repaid to Hungarian taxpayers. Overall, I wanted to ask these questions. There is much about the bill itself that my fellow Members have said here, and I cannot repeat it. I can say on my own, however, that a large part of the detailed arrangements before us can be supported. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-170	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. As a representative asking for a normal word, MEP Ádám Steinmetz, notary of the Parliament, representative of Jobbik applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Basically, the thoughts of my Fidesz fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa inspired me to speak. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: KDNP.]] Sorry, my fellow Member from Fidesz-KDNP, but I apologize for the negligence. But the point is not, but that I have been a Member of Parliament for two years, and it does not pass a sitting day without Fidesz MEPs reminding us of the socialist governments in the 2000s, let us say, of their questionable decisions. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is also at the forefront of this event in the 2000s, when he regularly draws attention to the number of railway lines and wing lines that had been removed by socialist governments during 2007-2009, which was nearly a thousand kilometres, which was astonishingly large. And although it has been a long time, but it is not enough to make these things beautiful, we agree that basically it has made the transport of people living in the countryside impossible and at the same time bitter. However, there is a question here, which I am now going to ask to Mr. and Mr. Secretary of State: given that you have been governing for ten years, and with two thirds parliamentary mandate, in most cases, why have these lines not been restored? So when the economy is pounding, when Hungary is performing better, when in 2006 statements from Fidesz circles came to light, I would like to quote a few of them that the residents of the settlements are permanently left alone without rail services. [[18.20]] Then, in happier countries than us, the elimination of parallel services is solved in the opposite way, bus transport is stopped to shift traffic to the environmentally friendly railway. Then: this is unprecedented throughout Europe, the cost of passenger transport is not covered by ticket prices anywhere. So these statements have been used to comment on this decision in a subtle way, and it is interesting that more than ten years have passed. So then the environmental aspects were important, so now they are not important. So they questioned that passenger transport on certain lines cannot be economical here, and now, when the economy is raging, they feel sorry for the money on these lines. At that time, you were still concerned with the transportation of rural people in the countryside. Does that mean it doesn't matter now? I will give you a specific example here: line 37 of the MÁV, the railway section between Balatonszentgyörgy and Somogyszob, which is now 127 years old. Rail transport was stopped here in 2009, and there was a great deal of indignation in the region. Passenger transport has been on a break since then, freight trains are running 20 so I'll say it again: at a speed of 20 kilometres per hour, this railway section is in such a ignominious state. So when a Budapest-Belgrád railway line is being spent 6 billion forints per km, i.e. it is planned to spend, for example, on such railway sections, not only to restore passenger transport to the benefit of residents, but not only to restore passenger transport, and to renovate this railway rail party, so that more people use local entrepreneurs, local companies, for freight transport, so that they can load freight from the extremely terrible 68th road to the railway track, not do this, but spend 6 billion forints per km on a never-refund railway investment. Of course, professional arguments can be made here, but now, apparently, I think that we have gone in the political direction of this debate, so I ask the question, and I very much ask you to answer that, because not only do I care, but people in Somogy are interested, people in the Marcali area are interested, for whom it has not been created for eleven years to travel by rail. My fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, why didn't they restore passenger transport on this railway line? Why not spend money on this, when Hungary is growing stronger, the economy is booming, Hungary is developing? We see that there are also resources for various rail investments. Why hasn't the line 37 running between Balatonszentgyörgy-Somogyszob been renovated? One more thing, all the more so, because I'm sure you know there were terrible floods around Böhönye in July. By the way, this railway was completely flooded by the water, and now freight trains can't even run on it. I would also like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, at least for the first time, freight train transport can be restored, from Böhönya to Somogyszob, and from there, to other parts of the country, to the south, to Croatia. For the sake of the people of Somogy, I ask that this line be renewed and, as far as possible, be restored as soon as possible. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-172	Thank you very much. There are two two two-minute speakers; MEP Lőrinc Nacsa is the first of them, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, In answer to Ádám Steinmetz for a moment only: I think that when we analyze a situation, especially such a big question, which describes the transport, railway transport in Hungary, it is worth thinking about where we started. You can remind me why we are bringing up the period before 2010 here on a regular basis, and I, too, say that I am a leader. I think it's important to see where we started and how we got here, and what efforts we made from there. So, Congressman, this story would look completely different if we hadn't started rebuilding after the rail-destructive era, but, let's just say, at least as much money or just half the money the socialists would have spent on railway construction and rail development as we have spent in the last ten years, then this story would look very different. I'm just telling you that the MÁV had a $300 billion debt, closed 38 railway lines for 1,300 kilometers, and hit the railway with a HUF 70 billion cut. On the other hand, we have redeemed the debt of the MÁV, increased the wages of the railway workers, spent HUF 1700 billion on railway development, refurbishing the track at 660 kilometers - for example, the Kaposvár-Fonyód line in your narrower path, electrification takes place at 440 kilometers, so it is not true that environmental aspects do not apply and there is a completely new track on 200 kilometers. So the claim that we wouldn't spend a lot of money on this, that we wouldn't continue to develop it, and that environmental aspects wouldn't be important here. They are all important and continuous according to a set schedule. The Intermodal Centre in Kaposvár may be handed over this autumn if the Secretary of State has not given it yet. The North and South Balaton railways are developing continuously, and in many places electrification is also taking place. So both environmental aspects and the aspects of the people who live there are taken into account. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-174	Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz!
u2020-11-03-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to point out that it is often avoided, I do not know why, so I would like to say that there is currently a very large railway reconstruction and renovation in the country, this is the large railway reconstruction between Záhony and Budapest. It's not a small job, it's been going on for years, and it obviously costs a lot of money. And my second point concerns only what is required in relation to the different rail tracks, that in many places in the last ten years the motorway network has changed and developed in such a way, which makes it necessary where, when, which lines are justified or even less justified. I am only saying this because, when wing lines were closed, the situation is, as a matter of fact, different and different in many respects. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-176	Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK!
u2020-11-03-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just to nuance the picture a little bit and open another branch of truth, let us not forget that you are in such a good condition the railway lines are under you, despite all the victory reports, and it is certainly not necessary to think of the incredible amount of money spent on the Budapest-Belgrade railway line, that you, I believe, do not forget that a man dressed in snail costumes between Debrecen and Mátészalka ran the train. All this meant was to indicate the quality of the railway track. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] Even though Congressman Nacha is pointing at me, it's the truth. So the thing is, of course, you can point it back here, ten years ago, but you actually had ten years to do it, and it was practically an open cash register, because it was money, it was a business, as many people say, during that period, but you practically stole this money, and you stuffed it with it. And once again, between Debrecen and Mátészalka just a year or two ago, runners dressed in snail costumes, young guys ran the train. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-178	Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2020-11-03-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that I would like to encourage him to express his criticism of the governments before 2010. I do it myself, and I think it's right here. Indeed, there are investments in betraying or treasoning national interests, such as leading the M6 trail, where almost almost the construction of tunnels in the plain area, and the other or even concession operations, which, we can say, is never overdue, and is practically a sin worth remembering even after many years. I think that you have caught up with the Budapest-Belgrád project on a series of such crimes, which will, in effect, always have to be read on your head, and that is why, to say, you will have to stand before the judgment seat of history. [[18.30]] Explain to me, Congressman, why these documents have been encrypted. How can you explain that you spend a thousand billion forints of Hungarian people's money on such a project, from which, as has already been mentioned, the interests of my fellow Members, Lőrinc Mészáros, have a share of 300 billion forints? That's for sure. And especially in such a serious epidemiological situation, why doesn't this decision be withdrawn, and why doesn't this huge amount be spent, which, again, is equivalent to the creation of 175 thousand new jobs in this and next year, to the development of the Hungarian economy, the protection of jobs and the creation of new jobs? In connection with the sidelines, he acted as if he were responding to Congressman Adam Steinmetz, but he did not. By the way, you have rightly abused the anti-rail and anti-rail policy of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. But why didn't they take any meaningful steps? On some sidelines, the service has been restored, but it can be said that only figuratively, and in a significant part of these, there is no passenger transport. This year, you have launched an offensive against 34 railway sidelines, including one of the railway sidelines, which is the latest railway sideline, built in the 1980s, and cannot explain it at all. I think it's right to point back, these mistakes should never be forgotten, but expect us to remind you of the shameful measures that you have already committed. Thank you.
u2020-11-03-180	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, the rapporteur, if you would like to reflect on what has been said. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] You have the floor, please.
u2020-11-03-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the valuable supporting contributions and, of course, for the criticisms, which are what you learn from. I'd like to reflect on the most important thoughts and suggestions. Improving road safety is also a goal for everyone, as well as enforcing law-abiding behaviour. In many cases, these legislative proposals are basically about this. The state of the roads has been revealed in many speeches. From the 32,000 kilometers long Hungarian road network, we have fixed more than 6,000 kilometers worth of HUF 755 billion since 2010, and we have also heard that the proportion of refurbished sections is constantly increasing every year. With a budget of HUF 3200 billion in the road programme, serious highway and other improvements will be expected by 2024, and motorways that are heading towards national borders will reach national borders if the neighbour's reception skills are in place. I am pleased to inform all the honourable speakers that the construction of the M6 motorway is about to begin, as the Prime Minister agreed with the Croatian Prime Minister that the missing section of the road would also be built on the Croatian side, since it would not have made sense to drive a motorway in itself, and the M60 would be in its planning stage. Motorway charges have also been mentioned several times. The level of motorway charges is regulated by the EU Eurovignette Directive, which sets certain rates or maximums. Hungary will, of course, comply with these. So our freeway charges are far from the average. The amount collected from motorways and tolls shall be used entirely for the operation and development of the road network. It is also important information that the funding of the Hungarian Road increases year after year, and has already reached the level that it can carry out all its tasks in connection with road operation. Before that, we had to prioritize the tasks. This government has created funding to ensure safe operation of the road network with suitable engineering facilities and suitable machinery. The tram-train system was also mentioned in relation to rail transport. The tram-train system, as it is in its name, means the same vehicle where it is trammed in Szeged and Hódmezővásárhely, and where it is a train between the two cities. The European Union strictly regulates the type of train access permits a railway undertaking should have, and the security certificates and authorisations that a passenger company should have. This vehicle's got a tram in its name, a train. It is obvious that the vehicle must be subject to permits which meet both requirements, both urban and rail transport conditions. This is what the regulation is all about. The government has repeatedly stressed that the railway network is the backbone in Hungarian community transport, which is why the railway network is being developed with significant amounts. Investments are still under way. For example, we recently handed over the short section of the Budapest-Debrecen-Nyíregyháza-Záhony line between Ebes and Debrecen, but the renovated track between Budapest and Debrecen has already been completed, and the foundation for the renovation and electrification of the railway line between Püspökladány-Biharkeresztes has been laid down recently. So we're at another important station. The declared aim of our country is to actively participate in European logistics, and a significant part of the transport of goods is carried by train within Europe, but by ship to Europe, and goods from ports must reach the interior of the continent, and we want to be actively involved in this. This is why we are developing the trans-European network elements where serious freight is expected. The comments on each wagon also fit in with the strategy that the government is a supporter of rail transport, as it supports the segment of freight transport which is loss-making, which provides the service of one or two wagons in order to enable those who wish to deliver goods by rail to be able to do so on all freight rail lines. The Ministerial Decree regulates the conditions under which individual wagons will be supported. In order to ensure that the timetable for domestic public transport is truly coordinated with rail-centred functions, the government decided months ago to put Volán and MÁV under joint management. Volán's trustee is MÁV Zrt. Will do. This will ensure that the two companies provide passengers with a timetable that is truly designed to meet travel needs to a high degree. Every year, the Hungarian State enters into contracts with passenger transport operators taking into account the timetable, and the government pays for the provisions of this agreement, thereby compensating for the service it orders. With regard to education: indeed, there is a serious shortage of professionals everywhere, but we have already started years ago to continuously eliminate them, not only in vocational training but also in both secondary and tertiary education. This will be an important milestone on 1 January 2021, when the Railway Transport Department is reopened at the Budapest University of Technology and Economics in order to provide the railway with excellent engineers, as has been done in the past. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws necessary for the change in the status of persons employed at the Eötvös Loránd Research Network until closure follows. The government referral is T/13476. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. We'll wait patiently for the Secretary of State exchange. Welcome, Professor Bodis, Secretary of State. You have the floor, please. Good evening.
u2020-11-03-183	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The government is committed to strengthening and increasing the efficiency of our country's research system, and a new, more transparent, stimulating, more flexible governance and funding model for R &amp; D and innovation is being developed in Hungary. As part of the renewal, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network was established on 1 September 2019. [[18.40]] It expresses our commitment to the core research network that on 14 April 2020 the government decided to provide HUF 11 billion of additional resources this year and HUF 22 billion of additional resources for the operation and development of ELKH from next year onwards, resulting in a doubling of the annual budget of the research network, a significant part of which can be used to raise research wages. In addition to supporting the operation, the government also expressed its commitment to the infrastructure development of the institutional network, as it provides HUF 12 billion for the implementation of the new Martonvásár research block of the Research Centre for Agricultural Sciences, HUF 8.2 billion for the implementation of the new research network of the Research Institute for Experimental Medicine, HUF 6.3 billion for the creation of a new research park of the Research Centre for Astronomy and Earth Sciences, and HUF 10 billion for the reconstruction and development of the Wigner Research Centre for Physics. Dear House, The primary objective of this bill is to ensure that researchers employed in the research network are able to organise their wages in a competitive manner within the framework of the possibility of increasing resources to support the operation and to achieve the tasks of ELKH more effectively. The bill creates the possibility of increasing the performance of the research network by means of individual motivation in the future by means of more flexible employment rules resulting from a change of status. At the same time, this measure will also help the government to ensure that Hungary can also provide competitive conditions in terms of research wages. The legal relationship under the Labour Code gives the employer greater freedom to determine wages, which, in addition to maintaining talented researchers and supporting the replacement of researchers, also results in a significant reduction in administrative burdens. The bill also provides for further motivation for researchers in addition to the organisation of research wages, as it allows researchers achieving outstanding scientific results to establish scientific scholarships, awards, titles from the ELKH Secretariat's sources, and the ELKH Secretariat can also set a fee after the entry into force of the law, the conditions and detailed order of which it can organise itself. The amendment also supports the exemption from the obligation to contribute to the central budget of the research centres which form part of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, if the results of their activities are used to carry out public tasks or to assist them, they may use these resources within two years of the reference year. The bill also sets out the possibility for the ELKH Secretariat to give an opinion on government strategic planning documents related to its public mission and to exercise the right of opinion when drafting and amending legislation concerning its public mission. This bill ensures that one more person can be involved in the work of the National Science Policy Council, thereby providing the ELKH with a statutory representation. In addition, the bill proposes simplification and clarification of the existing legislation as justified by practical experience with regard to the National Science Policy Council. The government also intends to gradually express and enforce confidence and respect for Hungarian scientific life. The resources developed by the ELKH and provided by the government make the operation of the research network balanced and predictable, which contributes to increasing the competitiveness of the research network. The government's decisions created its conditions, and the bill provides a framework for the research network to organise its operation in a result- and performance-oriented manner. The budget covers longer programme cycles due to the nature of the basic research. With the creation of conditions and frameworks, the ELKH will have the opportunity to develop an objective evaluation and certification system for measuring research excellence. The introduction of a system of incentives for excellence could eliminate the effects of the mediocrity-based base principle, allowing for the greatest possible use of research results. This could improve the social return on capital invested in knowledge. Dear Parliament, This bill aims to support the ELKH's efforts to significantly increase the performance of its own research network in terms of both traditional and new indicators of excellence. For Hungary, in the global R &amp; D and innovation competition, it is extremely important that the ELKH also expresses its commitment to encourage the socio-economic utilisation of research results by supporting cooperation between actors in the R &amp; D ecosystem. To this end, steps that are included in the present bill are essential, in particular the wage arrangement that is a central element of the bill, which, according to the government's intentions, encourages research and development performance, and supports the retention of talented researchers, the provision of researchers' reinforcements, and the attractiveness of the research career for talented young people. Since 2010, the amount of R &amp; D expenditure has doubled in Hungary, while ten years ago it was 1.14 percent, and by 2018 the proportion of R &amp; D expenditure has increased to 1,53% compared to gross domestic product. Our common goal is for Hungary to be among the major innovator nations by 2030, joining the first third of the European countries. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-03-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The keynote speeches will now take place, among which the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr László Pósán, will be the first to speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The basic objective of the civil government's science policy and research and development innovation strategy is to increase efficiency and promote excellence. The amendments and changes contained in the bill we are discussing in this House are intended to contribute to these objectives. In Hungary, about 40 percent of scientific achievements are linked to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, and therefore the country's R &amp; D activities and performance can be achieved as quickly and effectively as possible by increasing the performance of this research network, with the aim of strengthening cooperation between actors in the R &amp; D &amp; Innovation System, innovations and innovations, increasing the so-called high added value of domestic economic performance. To this end, the amendment to the law before us proposes to change the relationship between those employed in research centres. XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants The Act of 2012 on the Labour Code would be converted from law to the Act of 2012 on the Employment Code. This change of status makes it possible for researchers to organise a competitive wage, as the Secretary of State has said, because the current civil servant status at research sites regulates the various issues and conditions of the legal relationship in such detail that it is possible to deviate from them in a very narrow manner, and there is still a lot of magic between the various regulators. [[18.50]] The transition to the labour code, labour law gives more freedom to shape wages, so it will be much more linked to performance indicators and excellence values. The aim of the bill is therefore to effectively support the improvement of the performance of the research network by means of individual motivation. The amendment, i.e. taking into account the experience of previous transitions from the Public Employee Act to the Labour Code, details the circumstances of the change of status. It clearly states that the salary of workers affected by a change of status at the research site should not be less than that of the salary concerned until 31 December 2020, including, of course, basic salary, basic salary hijacking, salary supplement, language replacement, training allowance, title replacement, management allowance in the case of managers. The bill states that the salary shall be determined taking into account the compulsory reclassification provided for by the Law on the Status of Civil Employees by 31 December 2020 and the change in salary linked to the placement in another job, as well as the rate of remuneration linked to the withdrawal or donation of the professional title. In the case of the appointment of senior managers and managers, the employment contract shall be established according to the content of the appointment at the time of termination of the civil servant relationship. The period-related leave not granted until 31 December 2020 shall be redeemed. The bill also provides that, in the first year of employment with a change of status, even the rules of the Law on the status of civil servants concerning the dismissal of the employer should apply, and even the rules of Kjt. concerning the Jubilee Reward should apply for the first five years. When preparing a proposal for a change in the status of researchers, the government examined the trends and trends in research sites and those employed there in Europe today, the solutions that individual countries are choosing to increase their scientific performance. Without going into detail in individual countries, allow me to make a brief summary, a summary. In Europe, fixed-term research contracts are increasingly preferred everywhere. The reason for this is that the most effective choice of excellence for researchers is competition, continuous application and mobility for researchers, and, on the other hand, public employment has the effect of counter-reinforcing researchers. In many countries of Europe, only a very narrow scientific elite in research centres prefers a fixed term appointment to create scientific workshops and schools. The main focus of these research sites' strategy is the provision of outstanding R &amp; D projects and the necessary high-quality infrastructure. In today's modern systems, significant, outstanding research incomes are realised in the form of participation in these large R &amp; D projects and are less derived from fixed research remuneration. In the UK, there is a mixed system in public research institutions today. The trend has been or continues for two decades now that the number of civil servants is constantly decreasing and newly recruited researchers are no longer employed under a public employment contract, but in practice under the Labour Code. At the same time, the number of public research institutions will be reduced. In Austria, the employment of researchers is not a public employment relationship. The same applies to researchers in Germany on the basis of a system-wide regulation, an open-ended contract, typically when they hold leading positions. Most researchers are basically recruited for projects. In Poland, academics and researchers from the university sector, researchers from public research institutions, are employed under the Labour Code, not by public employees. The Netherlands changed the regulation this year, i.e. in the year 2020 and the status of former civil servant is no longer valid for researchers, and they have moved there to the Labour Code. At present, researchers are employed in Hungary on the basis of various legal statuses. Public research institutions currently have both the Public Employee Status Act, the Public Employee Status Act and the Labour Code in higher education research sites, and the Labour Code in the corporate sector. In addition to the instruments of individual motivation included in the bill, the government will also promote the improvement of the performance of the research network by significantly expanding the budgetary resources of the research network. Mr. Secretary of State has already told me about this, so I wouldn't repeat that. This partly represents an undercover surplus of 22 billion and infrastructure development resources. I just note that, overall, the items related to the development of different research centres amount to HUF 36,5 billion, so it is not a small item outside the already mentioned 22 billion. At the same time, the law talks about simplifying the regulation of the National Science Policy Council, indeed concerning the composition, the role of the secretariat and the governing body, but basically, as the State Secretary stressed, the backbone, weight and focus of this bill are made up of a change in the status of employees in research centres. I think that the bill is the objective of how to strengthen Hungarian researchers and scientific achievements, how to channel them even more into the circulation of the economy, is clearly in line with the international trends that we see in other countries of Europe, in countries that have been at the forefront of innovation and scientific research. So Hungary is not using a unique solution in this respect, but, bearing in mind these examples, it is trying to adopt and apply this knowledge to local and domestic conditions. We trust it will be successful. I wish that this would happen, and I would ask that Parliament support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-03-186	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Tamás Csányi, is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, You are all aware that Jobbik has protested from the very beginning the outsourcing of MTA's research networks to the newly created Eötvös Loránd Research Network. We have done this for reasons which, to date, do not seem to have been understood by our honourable fellow Members and the government. Perhaps the only positive result of the bill before us is that it is a perfect example of the serious problems that we consider to be of concern about the current Fidesz science policy, and we are therefore trying for many of our criticisms in this respect, slowly and in a structured manner, so that the two-thirds of us can understand it. What, then, are the fundamental problems on the basis of which, according to the EPP Jobbik, the direction that this bill serves is anti-knowledge, science and intellectual, and thus ignores academic freedom, which, in addition to the academic autonomy which has also been seriously damaged by the developments of the OECD's regularly examined aspects in Hungary, has been an inviolable European baseline since the Middle Ages? In short, fellow Members, Fidesz does not respect scientists, science or knowledge in general. You don't respect scientists, scientists, researchers, because you make every decision about the ELKH without consulting them widely. One of the most serious elements of this is this bill, which will take away the public employment relationship from the employees of the research network, and will be passed on to the scope of the Labour Code, which today means selling out the knowledge of Hungarian workers on the basis of the most vicious neoliberal principles. There are several problems with this. The first is that the overwhelming majority of ELKH employees, 78 percent, reject the loss of public employment. As a reason for this, in addition to missing the consultation, another important aspect has been identified, namely that the research activity, the quality of the Hungarian science, is a public service. [[19.00]] And to serve the common good, you cannot be under the pressure that you place these excellent researchers under the labor code. What exactly is this about? The reasons for the bill refer to such things as greater and more efficient use of research results or better wage increases when performing performance-related tasks. All this sounds great, fellow Members, but during your science policy course, it's nonsense! Nonsense, because the disadvantages of the civil servant status could be resolved by the long-proclaimed settlement of the civil servant pay table, i.e. simply by a fair wage, worthy of the duties of civil servants, from the public money that is now in the pocket of the fidesz oligarchs. Furthermore, their argument is nonsense because you sell out our knowledge and sell out Hungarian science along the already mentioned neoliberal principles. You have no respect for science, because by strengthening this marketisation trend, you are unleashing competitive pressure, frustration and thus existential uncertainty on researchers, which, as shown by the analysis of international trends, are often just throwing back scientific performance. It is also worrying to us that you want to appreciate scientific performance in the way you approach it. Even though they mention the increasing potential for the use of basic research in such an environment where science is placed under immediate market profit, despite the best of intentions, fundamental research is violated, even in addition to your intentions. The government's approach to the management of scientific life clearly shows the desire for full political control. This bill concerns the appointment of members of the National Science Policy Council, where we can experience the same intention of manual control as the SZFE and six other universities that have undergone similar maintenance changes. Here, on the proposal of the Minister who also holds the office of President of the NTT, the Prime Minister appoints the members, and we can obviously hear the argument from the government side that it is possible to make a professionally sound decision, of course, but we know very well, fellow Members, that the appointments will instead take place on the basis of political interests. A good example of this is the current co-chair of the NTT, Günther Oettinger, who, despite the official justification that it is needed to strengthen our international scientific relations, is here because the neoliberal economic policy of Fidesz, building on assembly plants, slave law and cheap labour, is not covering the West, but openly admitting its beneficial effects on Western, especially German, multinationals. Another example is political control, when the Ministry is involved on a political basis in the assessment of OTKA applications, which is justified by the concern that you intend to evaluate scientific performance more on the basis of party loyalty. As regards the respect for Hungarian science and the ELKH, the fact that a declaration of intent on the use of MTA's business card, so-called brand, was made in vain after the removal of the MTA's research institutes, if they met the requirements of the MTA, and, as a result, the title of the Institute of Excellence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was created and given to all research institutions that had been separated from the MTA to ensure that the research network's international reputation for the MTA was as badly damaged as possible, but now the ELKH is obliged to remove the name of the MTA from anywhere by the end of the year. We are talking about an institution embodying the greatness of Hungarian science since Széchenyi, ladies and gentlemen who do not know. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill and what has been said clearly demonstrate that Fidesz does not respect knowledge. Allow me to draw particular attention to the fact that marketisation poses a particular threat to human science, since the profit-oriented, technocratic environment created by science based on neoliberal principles is often unable to interpret the usefulness of human science. Let's just think about it when your pants-on-the-shoes are one-sided away asking the professionals what's the point of a archives. I help: not only human science, but knowledge of all disciplines, the meaning of thinking, the driving force of all disciplines. I understand, fellow Members, that you are sore at the existence of a thinking man, because he is a danger to their one-party power. They refer to the explanatory statement that with the measures before us, they want to reduce the drop-out and emigration of researchers, as well as to attract Hungarian researchers working abroad. We understand that the money is everything to you, but the fact is that science, the people who cultivate science, will not be bought with a seemingly beneficial change of status, especially in a country where the government ignores the authority of the Academy, tramples on university autonomy, and on a political basis, any European core value that is due to scientific innovation is at risk. The EPP Jobbik stands for these values when criticising the scientific policy measures that have been taken to date; when my fellow Member, Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of the Parliament, draws attention to the worrying trends that I have expressed in Hungary in the Council report on academic freedom and university autonomy; and even when we do not support this bill as before. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-03-188	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-189	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We understand you're not in favour of a raise. It's okay, you can explain yourself to the researchers. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network was established on 1 September 2019. At the time of creation, the goal was clear: modern, XXI. The aim was to develop and stimulate competitive, innovative Hungarian R &amp; D in the 20th century. Over the past year, there has been an overview of the operation of individual research sites and the direction of development. It has now become clear to everyone that the key to a country's success and economic growth lies in its capacity to innovate, in the quality of R &amp; D systems. The only way to win this competition in the decades ahead, in the era of the latest industrial and digital revolution is if our research network is not an outdated money cemetery, but has a competitive, innovative approach, in line with the labour market and the latest innovation trends; it can respond quickly and effectively to the challenges. The strengthening of Hungary's R &amp; D performance can be achieved most effectively by enhancing ELKH's performance, so it is the task and objective of the ELKH to significantly increase the performance of its own research network in terms of excellence indicators taking into account both traditional and new aspects. This objective is also strongly supported by the national Christian Democratic Government. As a result of the government's decision, from 2021 an additional HUF 22 billion will be available for the operation and development of the ELKH research site network. This will increase the annual budget of the research network more than double, with a significant proportion of which can be used to raise the wages of researchers. This represents unprecedented support in the history of research and development in Hungary. The primary objective of the bill before us is to propose a change in the status of those employed in the research network in relation to the expansion of budgetary resources, in essence allowing researchers to organise competitive wages. The aim is to achieve competitive conditions and wages that are more favourable to researchers than previously, based on successful international, Western European patterns, which will increase efficiency and individual motivation. Wage planning serves the aims of European researchers and the gradual catch-up to domestic industrial wages. Wage planning is needed to stimulate this research and development performance, and to support the retention of talented researchers, the provision of research supplies and the attractiveness of the research career for talented young people. In order to achieve these objectives, there is a need for flexible pay, which also rewards both performance and talent. [[19.10]] The change of status is also expected to result in a significant reduction in administrative burdens. Further wage increases are needed to increase the competitiveness of the research career and to maintain wage purchasing power. When we were discussing the establishment of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network here in Parliament, that is exactly what we, pro-government representatives, said that this is a big step, a great responsibility, and it is important that these additional resources should then be available, and this competitive wage increase, a step-by-step wage arrangement will be implemented. We have the bill before us. The Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to supporting competitive support for Hungarian science and research and development. Already in 2018, we spent more than twice as much on R &amp; D as the last left-wing government in 2010. A total of HUF 43 billion more will be allocated to R &amp; D and innovation in the 2020 budget. In addition, the government provides additional resources for the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. This represents a central budgetary surplus of HUF 11 billion in 2020 and HUF 22 billion in 2021 onwards, thus ensuring that the ELKH can never get any worse in 2022 and subsequent years. In addition, the government provides additional resources for the infrastructure development of the institutions. In order to implement the new Martonvásár research block of the Research Centre for Agricultural Sciences, it provides HUF 12 billion, HUF 8.2 billion to implement the new research facility of the Research Institute for Experimental Medicine, HUF 6.3 billion to create a new research park of the Research Centre for Astronomy and Earth Sciences and HUF 10 billion for the reconstruction and development of the Wigner Research Centre for Physics. These infrastructure investments provide a total of HUF 36.5 billion plus infrastructure development resources. Such support could not be achieved for the scientific and R &amp; D sector in any of the previous cycles, which is why the KDNP fraction supports the proposal for wage increases and improvements. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-03-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, on behalf of the MSZP Group, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-03-191	Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, thank you very much for allowing me to speak. I wonder, honourable Members, how much such a debate is worth. It is not because 11 Members, together with Mr President, are taking part in it, because we can consider this to be a professional debate where, in fact, it is rather the people involved in this area, the result of which will then be put to a vote. Or we can look at something quite different, not simply a bill tabled, as a conversation, disagreement, disagreement, but something about how we really think about everything that I'm sure we have in common with one of the country's, if not its most defining treasures and resources, knowledge and energy invested in knowledge. As long as it is not revealed that Mátra is a large single block of gold, or that there are not several layers of oil fields under the whole of the Great Plain, I must say that there is no pro-government and opposition opinion here, but that we must be aware of this. For the record, I don't see any hierarchy in this at all, but rather a finding. Obviously, our debate, our opinion, must be influenced at the same time. The Secretary of State has delivered the content of this written law, and the members of the Government have likewise defended it accordingly, and the opposition does not agree. It's kind of boring to mention it like that, so I wouldn't do it without speaking. However, the thought of the fact that the current government is doing good with Hungarian research is worth considering that we are really able to think about the future of Hungarian science together beyond this election and the election, it is worth the evening here. I see neither conviction nor faith nor soul in the honourable pro-government talks. What I see is that they're doing the job, they're making their own opinions absolutely precise, but I don't see for a moment that you believe in it. Not because a debate reflects real and deep commitment when a person yells with loud words and gestures, but because after a while there is so much experience inside and outside that he sees why it is worth hearing and thinking that yes, although I do not agree with him, but I see that faith is reflected, and that is why it is worth going into battle. I cannot accept in any way the argument that the very essence of this law happens to be to exclude Hungarian researchers from the status of civil servant and to increase competitiveness, these two things would be related to each other. I simply do not see the argument that would prove to me that even as an opposition, I should already accept the idea that if my fellow civil servants cease to have the status of my fellow historians and physicists, they will be released from some shackles that will further enhance their research activities and performance and their participation in the global scientific competition. I simply believe that this argument does not have any content other than the sentences written on paper. I do not see it in any way as proof that what President Pósán said, I note examples from different countries, of course, the counter-example of which could be taken into account by freeing Hungarian researchers and encouraging them not only to perform better, but also by creating an opportunity for them. For example, this would mean that the Hungarian scientific performance between 1992 and 2020 is some kind of captured, some kind of stifling achievement. All that has happened over the last quarter of a century in many fields of science, and in a way that you have far recognised, has happened with just a little bit of luck, because this whole system has actually suppressed knowledge. That's not true. That's just not true! In a different way, let us look at the incentive system. I think that there are areas of life in which, if we pre-write the rules and even put more money on the table, it undoubtedly increases performance. Please, let us put this into this environment in life and not in general. The strange thing is, let's say, in this respect, it is good that you saw a well-known man, a well-known man, after all, after all, a professor of international fame, the former president of the Hungarian Rector's Conference, is honoured by the Secretary of State. The room has an interesting ratio, because nearly one third of those present are not only historians, but also pursues their profession. Therefore, please take the example from me. I consider it the essence of my own original profession to be able to use a critical approach on a source basis to formulate a movement, a thought. I was sitting in the archives for weeks and the research area that really employed me didn't bring any results in the burning world. Nothing! [[19.20]] Believe me, I tried to read those early Gothic or Latin Italian texts with the best of my knowledge. I read it, I read it, and nothing ever came up. Ten days later, and the research showed that everything, everything, came up, and in the next ten days, I wrote a study that was fortunately well received by the international community. I'm just setting a personal example that there are things that can be regulated, some things that can't be regulated. You can make all kinds of laws, some things that won't come to mind before you do, and even if you don't, you might remember. You can cheer with me both in the field of science and art, but you will not first produce a beautiful and touching painting in another area of life, if you make such laws, and I will not accept in any way that what is now is holding back this. It's not that. It's just that this isn't about science. It's about a sense of power. The truth is that in the title of this bill, we should be talking about the research network named after the great Eötvös Loránd, but this law is not really about the research network named after the great Eötvös Loránd. This is more about your perception of power, which is reflected in different areas. When it came to how to make an archivist's work more competitive, I didn't understand, nor did I understand, how to make a librarian's or an archivist's work more competitive with such a paragraph, but the background to these two laws is much more connected to what you want. What you really want is for you to have much more power over individual research and Hungarian research than a state, a government, to my taste. I don't think it's about performance at all. I do not believe that it will be better, as I said, that the academic achievement in Hungary is that this law has been introduced, as it seems fair, to give more money for research. But please tell me why you don't want to give me more money in this system. So what's to stop you from having such a big soul and big cashy panties that you're going to put more money into this system, why link this kind of change of model to getting more money? You know why? You know that. Because they think that the researchers and the public will be much easier to accept what your policy of power is designed to do, than that if they don't receive money, because otherwise they may lose their sense of security and they won't receive any money. It's just an infinitely cynical cynical! attitude. In fact, what's behind the idea is that we know that you don't want to do this, researchers, we also know that otherwise the feeling of security, the feeling of security of the worker is not only a threat, but it is a total distraction, but that you are not so hurt, we will give you more money. And I don't see more money being given so that Hungarian research is, by the way, competitive, because you all know it, and if we talk, we all tell each other that the funding of Hungarian research is so far away from competitive research wages, with this increase in salary, that it is wonderful. Of course, if it weren't given, it would be even further away, but they do not justify increasing competitiveness by doing so. I think that it is worth putting ideas and positions around the end of the year 2020 and not only that what you are doing is not, in our view, good, but more and more to talk about what I think we should be talking about. I sincerely believe in the change of government, and I want to; which, by the way, is absolutely necessary for you to make such laws, because it makes it easier for us to do our job. In other respects, we do need to be told how we think. Therefore, as far as the circumstances now allow, roughly one and a half years before the election, and justify, let us state that there is conscious and advanced thinking on the opposition side in linking the Hungarian scientific policy as a whole, including in the operation of the Hungarian research network, the researchers, in other respects, the freedom and autonomy of teachers with adequate wages and truly competitive progress. I must therefore state that I have understood what is in your bill. We do not agree with this, but we will not be satisfied that we do not agree, but we will also explain in the right time and detail how we think of the freedom of autonomy, scientific research and education and the quality, truly world-class and operating system. Finally, there is still little experience in the operation of the research network named after Eötvös Loránd, but let us say that the relationship between the current Ministry of Science and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has never been so chilly since the change of regime. In any other way, I do not see it, nor do I now go into this old debate, that, if it was not created, it would continue to operate under the aegis of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in any way, a lower level of performance. On the contrary, it could provide autonomy and competitiveness in another way. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-03-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Well, it's hard to talk after István Hiller, that's the thing. Just because I'm not a historian or even a sincere confession: I've graduated from college, but I'm a worker. But what I see is that those of us sitting here are actually not discussing science or the future of science or scientific life, but something far more terrible: this is a debate of faith that I see here, and I will live with you. The problem is that we are debating the future of Hungarian society. The problem, honourable members of the government, is that if this were the only bill you have in front of us right now, it might even be possible to say that there is a point. But the problem is, it's one of many. Basically, I don't know why they're making such a fuss. This could also be solved by sometimes nailing a cut-off horse head to the gates of a university, sometimes to the gates of the MTA, sometimes to the gates of the cultural sphere, or to the SFE or someone else. The biggest problem, then, is that I see it, and I don't really see it, but everyone sees it. I don't know, you don't see it, you don't see it, you see it, you're chasing everything that's art, that's thought, that's knowledge. [[19.30]] And if we look deep into why they're chasing all this stuff, then we have to figure it out because they can't control it, because they can't control it, because they don't have the propaganda campaign, the hundred billion-dollar business that simply crush free thoughts. The problem is that this is a very strong debate of faith between us. A worldview debate that's unsolvable. You've been dreaming of a world of sugar syrup, past, burp, leg-smelling, rocking cock, my brother. You know, that wouldn't be a problem if they just dreamed it up for themselves. But the problem is that they want the same thing for 10 million Hungarians. The problem is that they want to push this down the throats of people who don't think that way, who see the future in science, who see the future in thinking, in art, and you don't like it. And, of course, we could talk about everything here. We could talk here about the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and how you think you are. Sure, let's talk about it. But what we're actually seeing is a situation of power. You simply cannot imagine that there can be a freedom that you cannot control. This is the struggle between liberalism and illiberalism, not in the political sense of the word, but in the social sense. But I have some bad news. You can't win this. You're gonna lose in this. They're gonna lose everything because I can't have a man with a booty, a strap, an ankle-snapper, see the world as a future. You may like this, you may like it as your leader, but it's not good for young people whose freedom you're trying to crush in any way. I don't know what's gonna happen in a year or a year and a half, two in the election. All I know is that if you had nothing to do with anything other than what we see here, which can be seen from this bill, you'd still be in a dump in history. Only if this is a problem, but in terms of Hungarian society, you have been systematically killing everything that characterizes and carries the free thought for ten years. This thing is gonna end someday, and I really hope with István Hiller that this will all be over soon, because this can't be done for long. Of course, what we say in the Democratic Coalition is that you, the Orbán government, have simply stepped on science, all areas of scientific life. But they did the same thing to cultural life and vocational training workers. They're acting like it's not a big deal. Come on, they're being graded. But we know what that means. We see that this is just the first step, that this will be followed by the next. That it's nothing but a sneaky little propaganda, a cover to cover up their real goals. The only problem is, they're transparent as windows. That's the biggest problem. And what we now see, yes, is that, in addition to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in the case of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, the Prime Minister's patrons and appointees will also decide on all the money and the main direction of research, thus seriously violating the independent freedom of research free of influence. So how do I put this? Please return the National Scientific Research Fund to Hungarian scientific life, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and the Lendület programme for high-performance young researchers, and in the next step, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences supported its research sites and ensure that it operates independently and without political influence. Just realize that you can't do this forever, that you can only fail in this, and you're going to fail in this. I don't want to multiply the word because it's almost 7:30. I can tell you that at some point you will be very ashamed that you have tried to do this to 10 million Hungarians, and 10 million Hungarians will open their eyes sooner or later, and you will say thank you very much, but we will not ask for any more of you. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-03-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Rector! The atmosphere has become very serious, and I feel that here in this Chamber in the evening. Serious words were said, but I think István Hiller was very good at holding it. He asked an important question, and he answered that these debates make sense, that it makes sense to say these serious thoughts, and that it might make sense to start thinking that if we are thinking in perspective, whether in 2022 or in the longer term, how we will have to fix all the things that we have done here in the last ten years, and I will add what the current government forces and the previous ones have ruined in the previous period. I think we should talk about what the predecessors did wrong for a long time. I would like to begin with, and I do not wish to be personal, Mr Secretary of State, please do not misunderstand, that we are both Pécs, that I think it is unworthy that Mr Rector, Professor, should present and present as Secretary of State these proposals, fundamental changes in higher education and scientific life. He's not worthy of your record, and... But I'm gonna finish it. So I don't really want to hurt you, obviously you're in a particular situation, but I just think it's important that I tell you that it's really bad to see it this way. But I'm gonna end this now. I would like to refer to one thing that my fellow Members have not yet spoken about. At the beginning of the meeting there was a few minutes of commemoration, today is the celebration of Hungarian science. In 1825 Count István Széchenyi offered his estate a one-year income in order to create the Hungarian Society of Sciences. István Széchenyi had a vision of this, he had a purpose. I think that it is perhaps also important that we remember this on this day, and on this day let us say that this government really does not have a vision, and this government really has power-related goals. If we think about the results of Hungarian science over the past decades or centuries, what we owe to Hungarian scientists to this day, and we look around the world at what is happening around us, what is happening to us, what challenges we are facing today, say, in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, we should also add that we have never needed scientists, scientific life and the educated head of man as we are now facing the challenges we are facing. We are now facing a shocking challenge in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, and in fact, they have not been able to give a meaningful answer anywhere in the world, and we do not know when this will end, how and how we can deal with it. In all other respects, we can see that we are facing challenges that are unprecedented, such as climate change, the effects of environmental destruction, or all the global problems that we cannot really answer. Indeed, in this situation, we must see that the current government has practically launched an attack on scientific life, launched an attack on higher education, and has crossed borders that should not have been crossed, with very serious consequences. [[19.40]] In the debates over the last few days, this has been the culmination of how you think about Hungarian scientists, scientific society and science. I set an example here, a month ago, the virologist professor in Pécs, Ferenc Jakab, gave a very strict prognosis, made a statement, and formulated the measures he would expect from the government in connection with the coronal virus epidemic, and one of the secretarys of state actually doesn't matter, I don't want to hurt that certain secretary of state on one of the morning television shows that there have been such alarms. So I think that this one suggestion and the response and the government's reaction will also show how this government thinks, how this power thinks about Hungarian scientists, about scientists whose knowledge and experience, by the way, is absolutely necessary in order to emerge from this current crisis. So these processes are quite shocking. In particular, seeing this bill, my fellow Members have already said it, and I do not want to multiply the word, it does not make any sense, there is no explanation that the status of civil servant is being taken away from researchers, against their will. This is the same step as the start of such a reform of the academy, specifically the will of the members of the academy, despite its intention, has been desecrated and humiliated by this public body by thus pushing through this will and this intention, specifically with political dictatorships. This, I think, was a crossing of a line, not for the first time in your case, which is unprecedented. I make a lot of criticism here, even in relation to the operation of post-regime governments, but we really have to get to the point that what you have been doing over the past period is truly unprecedented, and it is almost impossible to compare it with any of your predecessors. I don't know, Mr. Secretary of State will try to explain or give answers to what is being said here, for example, what is the point of taking away the status of civil servant, what is the point of strengthening the process that feeds uncertainty for researchers committed to scientific life. We see that a lot of people have left the profession, a lot of people have left the country because they are low, humiliating teachers' and researchers' wages, and there is a lot of uncertainty. And now, as I see it, these steps are strengthening this uncertainty, and these dictators are strengthening this uncertainty. And I'm afraid that the processes will be the same, which will once again strengthen the departure and emigration. At least try to explain, Secretary of State, what is the reason for this step. Over the years, we have argued many times that the wages of higher education teachers and academics are humiliatingly low, we can say that an assistant with a scientific degree earns less today than a charger. And I'm not saying that a loader makes too much, I'm saying that it's simply unorganized and humiliatingly low wages for those who chose it as a profession, many years of preparation and learning, so that they can serve national interests in this way. Why could this happen that after ten years of governance, any criticism of previous regimes has been expressed in a situation such as this in higher education and in scientific life? What's the point of this proposal now? And why can't they get to the point where the people involved are treated as partners, honoured, and try to implement reforms in a way that meets their expectations, needs, and suggestions? I have one more question for Mr. Secretary of State, Rector. I have used it several times when I asked at the plenary session of the Parliament that there was also a tendency here in the series of epidemiological measures that the restrictions had affected not only the municipalities but also the universities. Then you gave me some information, Mr. Secretary, that nearly HUF 20 billion of withdrawal was involved in universities. I would like to ask how this has affected the individual institutions. We were talking about the University of Pécs. It was almost 2 billion, 1.9 billion withdrawal. And I would also like to ask you that since then the University of Pécs has indicated to the Ministry anything relevant about this, what kind of challenges and problems this withdrawal poses. There was a news report here that the University of Pécs received about HUF 5 billion in investment aid, but it was also clear to everyone that these were extensions due to the increase in the cost of investments that had been made by previous decisions, which would be placed in the pocket of Lőrinc Mészáros's construction company. So these are not resources that could be used in any way in the daily operation of the university. So is there a meaningful consultation, communication between the University of Pécs and all the other universities affected by withdrawals and restrictions? And is there any hope that the government will review these measures and return the abstract resources in order to ensure that the functioning of universities can be preserved and that there is no need for dismissals and other drastic, restrictive measures? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-196	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member who has applied for the speech. Mr Szabolcs Szabó will speak. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In this whole process, I think the most shocking thing is that once again you have forgotten to ask the parties involved, including my colleagues, who work in academic research institutes. So just for the record, allow me to interpret what the people working there think about this bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, We learned with deep bitterness and indignation that Parliament will remember the celebration of Hungarian science on the day when it also discusses the removal of the status of public employees of researchers. There's no reason to celebrate. Instead of the celebration of Hungarian science, it would be more timely to talk about the catastrophe of Hungarian science. Only one element of this is the loss of the status of researchers, a total and harsh attack on science has been taking place for years. You can see the catastrophic results, but the road roller can't stop, and the plague adds to the destruction. A decade ago, not many people were interested in coronal viruses. Coronary virus research, according to the current regime, was a waste of time, hobbies, and money, since it was not expected to be a good profit, a spectacular pharmaceutical application. Only SARS and MERS epidemics evaluated previous knowledge and showed that without knowledge, epidemics could have had much more serious consequences. The research of the past decade has further expanded the knowledge that has now gained invaluable significance. Science has never been as needed as it is now, but the government is constantly and increasingly attacking the institutional and existential foundations of scientific and cultural life, making it impossible for researchers to concentrate on their work. Not only the goals set, but the methods used are also ideal. Minister Palkovics resembles the man who is trying to fix the car's brakes as he goes along. The car's already running down the slope at full speed towards a wall, but he thinks it's gonna work. But his hope is baseless. He failed to set up the University of Theatre and Film Arts, Corvinus, MOME, and other universities forced into foundation maintenance, where teachers were deprived of the status of public employees. We cannot see the great results promised here, nor in the case of public collections, museums, whose systematic destruction is taking place in parallel. For decades, the well-functioning system of scientific support, OTKA, has also lost its reputation as a result of the activities of the ITM. The case of the Hungarian Medical Chamber also shows why it is not a good idea to build and drill the system without asking the stakeholders. That's what's happening with the research institute network. On the one hand, in the survey of the Academic Workers Forum and the Democratic Trade Union of Scientific Workers, a large part of the workers clearly refused to take the status, on a principled basis. On the other hand, the draft law was sent informally to the representative trade union TDDSZ in the research network, two hours after the deadline set, and the proposal was also submitted that evening. We find it quite shocking that, in this extremely difficult and dangerous situation, Parliament has nothing better to do than to adopt a law which, with its lack of development, redirects the workers of the research network into insecurity, does not provide any guarantees comparable to the status of civil servants, and in the most critical months, by increasing administrative burdens to an astonishing extent, draws resources away from scientific work. In view of this, we are strongly opposed to the draft law, and our position is that its vote in the current serious situation, but in the longer term it will cause further enormous damage to science and this country as a whole. Greetings: Academic Workers Forum That's what they think. The problem with this is that once again, Mr Secretary of State, with a bill, we have seen this happen before, that there is no technical and social consultation to which you are formally bound by law. [[19.50]] I know you're going to say that your colleagues did the negotiation, but they didn't do it again. Really, how is it that the representative union doesn't get the material about them? What I mean is that it's easier with the League, because they're gonna blow it, and all they should have done was give it to the TVDS because it affects them. I would very much ask the Secretary of State to say something about how this happened if it had not been discussed with that very union. This is already the first problem with this proposal. Not only did they not get 54 minutes like MTA, they didn't get zero! That's what happened. On the other hand, there is such an interesting magic trick going on here, and this story is led to the fact that the wage increase will then take place in this way, and that is the condition. It's one thing that anyone who knows K.K. knows that's not true, because it's the K.K. it allows differentiation for those working in the research institute network. Each year, his activities shall be reported, a performance assessment shall be provided, it may be reviewed annually and, accordingly, additional wages may be paid. No, especially, the ELKH itself announced in early October that the Kjt. On the basis of this, by 1 July, the average wage increase of 30 per cent will be differentiated for employees of the research institute network, and differentiation will be decided by the leaders of the research institute networks. So it's the kjt. it gives rise to wage increases and differentiation, which the ELKH is using, because it has been announced that they are already doing so under the current legislation, plus they give young people a 20% increase in wages. So it is simply not true that anyone who says no to this amendment of the law is saying no to a wage increase, because that is not true, and the taxative of the law is one thing that in the future wages cannot be lower. So I'm telling Lőrinc Nacsa, that's what's in the proposal, so don't claim to have a wage increase in it because it's not included. Plus, they give wage increases differentiated according to the law currently in force, so it is worth reading this a little more carefully and not saying anything that is not included in this law. On the other hand, let us be honest with you that it is also an interesting argument, which Lőrinc Nacsa also led to, that we had to transform the research institute network and take it away from the MTA in order to raise wages, and, uh, look, here's the bill, we'll have the wage increase. I'd just like to say that the budget says that it's MTA plus billion, or that ELKH plus billion, it's financial engineering, it's a budget-technical issue. That's why you shouldn't have taken it yourself. Don't pull your head. It could have been done quite clearly by adding this surplus to the MTA, their budget line. It may be there, and it can even be tied to wages, or it can be done in such a way, there is nothing against increasing the salary of the research institute network, nothing prohibited it. So that's another argument that's not exactly true. I know that if you're not a researcher, you're not familiar with the operation of the MTA and the ELKH, that may sound so good, but in reality, it's a long way from the truth. I'm asking you to at least let this kind of argument go. It's one thing not to ask people who work there. We will discuss this with Mr Secretary of State, and I hope that he will discuss it with the people who work there, but let us not bring such things up against researchers. If someone should be considered an adult in Hungary and left out of this usual misconception, it is the community of researchers. So they should not be involved in this type of disinformation campaign in this direction. This is a very important thing for me. To be honest, the rest of the bill is that the ELKH can set up a prize, and that the otherwise unfunctional National Scientific Council is being expanded with an ELKH delegate, just to say a classic quote from Marai, not literally, so I'm sorry, but somehow he said at the school of the poor that this is about as important and interesting as hearing geologists argue that the world's ocean level will rise or fall by an inch. Because it doesn't matter if you can set up a fee for your employees with the ELKH or not. By the way, if you could work within the MTA, you could get MTA's fees, for example, and there is no such problem. Again, this indicates weaknesses in outsourcing. I would like to return at the end to what István Hiller suggested, perhaps we should really think about how to operate this whole system better and more effectively. I firmly believe that the first step in this would be to ask the people who work there. I didn't start my comment by accident. And I completely agree with István Hiller, the fact that their status as civil servants is being taken away from researchers is not going to release any extra energy. To refer to one of his examples, let me assume that they will apply my geologist and geographer research friends and acquaintances to the ELKH research facility on the basis of the Labour Code. They will not appreciate the Mátra in any other way, and they will not show that there is much more gold than reality. Because we've known for a very long time that the main mass of this mountain is piroxeneandezite, we know exactly the ores of Mount Lahóca, we know that there is one and a half grams of gold there, which is unfortunately not economically viable. We know exactly that Károlytáró can be mined over Gyöngyösorosi with sphalerite and galenite, there was a mine and a flotate, and I could tell you about it for a long time. They will not show any more Sphalerites, Galenites, or gold in itself because they are not civil servants, but work according to the Labour Code. However, they would have been very happy for a very long time in the last ten years if they had received a differentiated wage increase according to Kjt., because their salary is still insanely low, and then I didn't even mention university teachers, but that's another pasta, another branch of the Hungarian research set, where I belong, for example. Thank you so much for listening. I'm interested in the one thing in particular, and please, Mr. Secretary, you really should answer that question, how is it that you didn't ask the people who worked there about it? How is it that the representative union has informal access to this material after the deadline for its opinion expires? I would be very interested in that, because, for example, you would probably have resented being a member of the university community in Pécs if you had passed a signed law on the University of Pécs, which neither the Senate nor a faculty council nor those working there could say anything about what would happen, say, to the University of Pécs. I suppose he would have been offended, so he would have resented it. These people resent it the same way. Right this way, please. Answer me. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-03-199	Thank you, Mr. President. It has been said that I think that perhaps Mr Csányi said so, that the exploitation of researchers and, in practice, the state will have too much power over research. I would just like to draw attention once again to the fact that, if they say so, this is obviously true of Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, and so on. Because I didn't happen to give examples that in these countries, scientific research and I didn't list all of them basically based on the labor code, it works well, it can produce results. If this is exploitation for you, then obviously this criticism will also have to be passed on to ambassadors in these countries to embarrass themselves in the way you expect us to. He also said that it is a great threat to human science. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that at the Maxman Institute, they do a lot of human science. The vast majority of researchers of the Maxman Institute, more than 90 percent, are, by the way, temporary researchers employed for projects and not public employees. But I could say Monumenta Germaniae Historica, it's a very old, big project in German history for decades, and there are no civil servants there. I would just like to point out that it is good to be aware of this, before making statements that are, of course, good for political thumping, but not for real. I think it's right that we know that. [[20.00]] István Hiller said that competitiveness will not be increased if the status of civil servant is abolished. I'd like to think so. I just want to set one example here, which may seem like a good example. In many cases, in cooperation with the University of Debrecen and Richter, things can be done in a way, unfortunately according to the current regulations, that a separate company must be created. I think it's very complicated. And if we think about international cooperation, which universities, research institutes would or would do, it would make things even more complicated. From American testing to hospital testing to nuclear medicine, there's a lot of things. I think it would be nice to look at each area, where, when, what is justified. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As there are no two-minute speakers, I will give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A lot has been said here in the last hour, words such as that we humans and people with families should end up in a dump, from Congressman Varga, which I do not think are for sure here in the debate. But do you really think that the explicit aim of a minister responsible for current science policy, a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and a professor of science, is to destroy Hungarian science, drive Hungarian researchers away from home, to destroy these networks to the ground and sprinkle their place with salt? Because you have now painted such an apocalyptic picture as an emergency bird in your speech, as if this bill and the legislative proposals previously adopted on the subject meant the end of Hungarian research, that Minister Palkovic does not want basic research, does not want applied research, does not want competition results, does not want publications, does not want patents and innovations, he does not want all of these. The example that Congressman Szabó brought here in the rushing car is very humorous, because it is Minister Palkovics... [[Szabolcs Szabó: Academic staff said...! The president's ringing the bell.]] I listened to you, too.
u2020-11-03-202	Congressman, I ask you, however late it is, that we have listened to each other with honor, and I think we should continue to do so. Be nice, I'm sorry, I'll give you the floor, push the button, and you'll get your chance. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-203	He's funny because Minister Palkovics is one of the most powerful brakes in the world. So even he might be able to fix the brakes on the way, but I'm just bringing this here for the sake of humor at the late hour. But the fact that you claim that you are withdrawing the resource, you also said that you are removing resources from the area or the research network from the Ministry, is that this apocalyptic picture, which is painted here, is true in any way... I have prepared it, like my fellow Member Pósán, with international examples. Then why is it that, for example, in England, which cannot be said to be a country without a researcher and, by the way, a country that is without science at all, the UK is constantly working to reduce the number of public research institutions to the minimum in terms of public employment status. When a person retires, they always hire new researchers with a work relationship filled under the Labour Code. In Belgium, the same way, the regions finance research, they provide research directions, and they work in employment... The rest, Austria, Germany, Poland, Ireland, and countless countries, which, in many cases, may be in many fields of science, in applied research, have been said by my fellow Members. Mr Vice-President is right, there is an example, and there is an example. But it cannot be said that in all these otherwise innovative and science-leading countries, this system would either be condemned to death in the first place or could not function in the first place, since there are examples of this, the fact that there are examples of this, or even the Czech Republic. And for example, there is Denmark, where civil servants are, yes, there is a counterexample. However, it cannot be said that from Austria to the Czech Republic through the United Kingdom in Ireland, it would operate badly everywhere because they are not in the status of civil servants. There is also a system of promotion, and there is, for example, where innovation supplements may be introduced in the United Kingdom on the basis of actual performance. There are many different examples in the world. Don't tell me that our goal is not to have a research network or to have a research network that doesn't work so that there aren't any researchers here, so there won't be any results. That's not what this is about. Otherwise, this bill is about exactly what it is about, and it is about the transformation of the system that, if there is a historian who does not make progress for ten days or does not make progress in his work for six months, it will also be possible for him to do this research for the same competitive wage in a few years, as we say, by his German colleague or his Austrian colleague or his English colleague. I do not know how many codes are to be translated in how many minutes I don't know what language it is and how the evaluation of performance in this way works. But we agreed on both sides of the horseshoe that it was necessary to remove basic research and applied research from the deadlock in order to go on in a direction which, by the way, serves part and does serve the interests of the Hungarian economy and does serve Hungarian innovation, and, by the way, to keep everything that is valuable. This system isn't about cutting everything off the tree trunk, all kinds of branches and all kinds of leaves, and only the tree trunk stays there. It's about transplanting this tree, by the way, to bring much more fruit, to bring much more flowers, to bring much more crops, that's what it's all about. The whole end-of-the-world vibe you're painting here is simply not true. This is not only guaranteed by the Minister, not only by the project, the transformation, the work, but by the way, by the way, by the majority of academics involved in the governing body of the ELKH, but also by the fact that we really want to achieve a more innovative, more competitive, a XXI. In the first century, a more modern, a more paid, stronger research network should be created, which is worthy of the heritage of well-known Hungarian scientists, such as mathematics, and can carry it on, because we have all agreed on this in the past 15-20 years. You had to keep swinging, you needed an extra swing to keep it going. It's a model of extra swing now. And if it doesn't work out in 1, 2, 5, 8, 10 years, and I think that the short-term year and a half that Mr. Vice-President said until election 22 to introduce such a model may take more time to see how this works, how it works, how it works, what international recognition it works, what publications, how different professional successes are mixed out of this system, but we think it will stand the test of time. If not, then, of course, we will be discussing what could have been done differently. We think he's going to stand the test of time, so we support the bill, and that's why I'm asking you, instead of the end-of-the-world mood... For example, the questions you've asked may be legitimate questions, but the end of the world mood is in no way justified. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs, an independent representative. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry I got a little carried away earlier. Only one would think that when we talk about the matter of science, at least someone who can interpret a simple text will speak to him. I made it very clear that I would read the opinions of the people who worked there, and then I would say, signed: Academic Workers' Forum. So that's what the employees said. So don't tell me I'm creating an end-of-the-world vibe. The people who work there know Minister Palkovics precisely, so the subtle reference to the brakes is no coincidence. That's what I said, let's not give kids and un-adolescent teenagers a chance to see colleagues working there with a science degree. And I'm just gonna send it to your group in the big space so that they can talk about how, when it's really a topic like this, we can argue with someone who, say, knows science and wouldn't hurt to have a science degree. President Pósán and I are very happy to argue, because he understands, has a scientific degree; we do not agree with him, but he does not say very foolish things at least. A little modesty. Do not take part in a debate you do not understand and let us discuss professional matters with Mr Secretary of State, for example, answer why you have not consulted colleagues who work at the academic research institute. Thank you.
u2020-11-03-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-207	Dear Parliament, It is worth arguing about where there is a difference of opinion between us, and there is absolutely no point in arguing about things that are not even relevant. [[20.10]] No one actually claims that anyone in this Parliament, as a single Member, a political group or as a government person, is trying to live in a quotation mark for Hungarian science or research. That's not what I said. That's not what we said. We said you were wrong. There's a big difference between the two. Let me draw attention to the fact that it is really only worth two minutes to explain this, or on a separate debate day. My problem is that you have a non-coherent approach to education and research as a whole, but can only be explained from the point of view of how you can best pursue your own interests. The role of the state is therefore inadequate, because the problem is not the role of the state, the problem is that if it is in their best interest, then they are centralized in madness, and on another occasion they are completely outsourced while they are talking about a circle. To be clear: in Hungarian public education, a centralization was carried out, a degree of nationalization that was never in the history of the Hungarian administration except in 1948-50. In the history of Hungarian higher education, something is being done about handing over many of the rights to curators and partly false curators, fortunately, not all of them, and they say that the state is not responsible for this. They're gonna take away the institute network from the Academy, and now they're gonna take away the status of civil servant after taking away the institute network. It's not coherent in any way, that's what I'm arguing with. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-03-208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-209	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I listened not only to Szabolcs Szabó's speech with interest, but he was very persuasive to me, but, in a sense, let me protect Lőrinc Nacsa from the next point of view. There is a National Assembly in Hungary. This means that when it comes to health issues, doctors do not just speak, but everyone who has somehow become a representative. So if I, say, worked 35 years in higher education, can I comment on this subject, not because I don't have a science degree? So this is Lőrinc Nacsa speaking with all due respect. What you may say is that you either strongly condemn or oppose it, but the right to speak is also fine. Then let me speak to Nacha Lawrence. I would like to tell you the difference between the countries that you mentioned as an example and Hungary. In those countries, there is no one-party overpower that aggressively seeks to enforce its interests in all areas of life and, above all, to eliminate everything where autonomous decision-making exists. That's the difference. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, Fidesz Group, in a two-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to point out that I have agreed with Mr Balczó's manifestation of the fact that every Member can express his opinion in a parliamentary assembly of representatives. But if that is the case, I have to say at the second part of what he has to say that there was a parliamentary election in Hungary, and this parliamentary election has created a majority of such mandates; this is also part of the parliamentary assembly at the People's Congress. So don't say there's too much power or no one else. He may not be in Germany right now, but he may be later. We can't ever tell you that. What I would just like to say to you is that when we are discussing a parliamentary debate, we should, after all, follow full coherence in this regard. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-03-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. In a two-minute timeframe, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-213	Thank you, too. I would like to thank my fellow Member Balczó for his sentences. We have already fought and argued several times today, but we may have always tried to do so in the spirit of mutual respect or fairness. But at least it became clear that Szabolcs Szabó's image of democracy is that he tells us who can speak to what, and he is sure that he has spoken only on the subject of his doctoral dissertation in Parliament, and has not been manifested in any other matter, nor in press conferences. I understand that it is the Member's view of democracy, but we do not think that about Hungarian representativeship and Hungarian democracy, but anyone, even your newly formed political groups, who never pay their respects in Parliament, can come in to this debate, and they have the right to speak, otherwise they have not been in work for months. Thank you. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó asked for the floor in a normal time frame, an independent Member. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-215	Thank you very much for the floor. That's the second time I've told you to listen, and Nacha Lawrence, listen to what I'm saying. I'll try to say it again, it's not that complicated to understand. I said that we could have it read back from the record, really, I said that it would be very good to have someone who understands the way science works and the way the Academy works, and I added that it wouldn't hurt to have, let's say, a science degree. I didn't question her comment. I don't know where she read that from. I object to him not talking to her if he didn't know how to do it, that's what it meant. So the Hungarian language is not so complicated. For example, the ELKH has a Research Centre for Humanities, there are linguists, they are very happy to explain to you how the logic of the Hungarian language works and what sentences and words mean. So don't make me say anything I didn't say. Please learn about the operation of Hungarian scientific life, and you will not say anything you have said! It's a parentheses note, I'd like to refer it back again. I would be very happy if the Secretary of State didn't speak to him as a closing point, but pressed a button and asked for a word, because then we could talk. Because if you say it as a closing point...
u2020-11-03-216	Congressman, let the Secretary of State handle this.
u2020-11-03-217	I asked for it!
u2020-11-03-218	Thank you.
u2020-11-03-219	I started by asking you very nicely, but I said so before someone says I'm ordering the Secretary of State to ask the Secretary of State. Then, I don't know, this is the third time I've said "Please," so that someone doesn't take out the fact that I'm ordering the professor to press the button. It's just that if you tell us your answers as a shutter, then we can't answer them. You can say a closing after that, only in the meantime, we might still be able to respond to each other. So I would continue to wonder how it is that researchers working there could not comment on this material, they received it afterwards. So that's what I'd like to know now. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-03-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-11-03-221	Mr President, Dear House, I must start by thanking you for your contributions and thank you for your clear positions in the debate. The comments had two main lines, despite the fact that, let's say, this bill actually brought two programmes here, one being the change of status and the other being the representation of ELKH in the National Science Policy Council. I think that everyone has made their views quite clear, I have no doubts about this, and thank you for the positive attitudes and for the criticisms. At the same time, there are some general things that need to be responded to, because it has been published in most of the comments. One of them is academic freedom, university autonomy. I think that this is actually a key issue, and I agree with the views of the Members that the debate was rather such a debate and not necessarily a professional one. But if we're gonna go back to the professional, then we need to be clear about who's under university and academic autonomy. [[20.20]] I think that when universities were created and developed, it was very clear that university autonomy, which also meant academics, was obviously able to be realized when the university had wealth, could farm, along with the cultivation and transfer of sciences during the various periods. Looking back over the past decades, Hungarian universities had no property. When we started changing models, the model-shifting universities got their property. There is no doubt that in historical times they also had tribal wealth, namely lands, ploughers, forests, but in today's world it is not certain that this is the absolutely viable way, but it can be that way. On the one hand, when we criticize the fact that we have implemented a great centralization in public education, on the other hand, we do not realize that when universities with state reservations become foundations, this is not just about centralization. Maybe this is about something else. This is, in my reading, the expansion of academic or university autonomy, or at least a step in that direction. How this will be done in practice will be shown in the years to come. One thing is certain, by changing models for universities, or now for ELKH, it does not mean that we have now done it, we can sit back, and then here we are at Canaan, and the results are moving on either educational or scientific lines. No. If this is to succeed, the current university citizens, their leaders, researchers from ELKH institutions must work very, very hard. So more work, more resources are associated with this, because this semester there is an 11 billion more to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, for example. Starting next year, this resource will grow by 22 billion, a significant part of which can and should be used for wages. The 30 percent increase or increase in wages does not immediately push our colleagues too high in the European or world R &amp; D &amp; I market, but at least we are on the move. We're on the move, and you can appreciate that. By the way, it was also said that everyone was faced with a huge challenge in the Covid epidemic. I think that no one wanted this challenge, and I also believe that the spring epidemic has been well escaped and managed, and we do not yet know what awaits us. I am convinced that all very important measures will be needed to get through this autumn and winter, and perhaps this virus will say good-bye to us in the spring or the middle of next year. But maybe he'll change his mind and say goodbye first. But what can the scientific community do? The scientific community responded to this challenge before the outbreak of the epidemic in Hungary, and they came up with about a hundred project proposals, of which twenty-some were accepted, managed and have tangible results today. We always say there's no specific medicine for the coronal virus, and that's true. No vaccine, that's true. Then there will be a vaccine, but we do not know how much it will protect us, and we trust that it will protect us for a period of time. However, a number of drug development has been launched, which is now available to Hungarian people who have contracted the coronal virus disease. Favipiravir was synthesized here at the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. He's in production today. There is no doubt that we received a donation from Japan with the same active substance. You know what the real problem is with that? The donation is fine, but our rules are that a clinical examination of it must be carried out to give it to the Hungarian patients. The Japanese have stipulated that we need a control group, so we can not only give it to patients, but also test it with others, and this narrows the margin of manoeuvre. But Hungarian development is available. Similarly, the production of remdesivir started secretly at the beginning of the year. The one thing that WHO or anyone else is saying about this is that, in the current situation, the current patient is a useful drug, it certainly improves his situation, and now we have experience. But imagine that drug development is a five to ten-year period. Undoubtedly, this drug has been invented, but still its production, preparation for production and delivery to the patient is a very serious developmental activity. But if I put the medicine aside, I'll tell you why half the vaccine has been developed. We are moving slower, and this development started with a different concept. The half is because it will also have vaccine properties when it is ready, but it is also a therapeutic agent. That's why I'm saying it's not necessarily a vaccine concept. But they're on the move, and two of them are in animal testing, and they'll be ready sometime. The vaccines that are or have been developed in the world are now more than a hundred, we do not know what their effect will be. We hear some pretty good stories about the Russian vaccine, some Chinese, Oxford, but we also heard that it was stopped for a while because of an unexpected side effect and then continued. I'll tell you, the side effect had nothing to do with the vaccine. But in a clinical trial, all aspects are evaluated and stopped immediately until clarified. But it goes on, and we trust that it will be available either at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year. At the beginning of the year we had mask procurement problems, and today we have mask production in Hungary, we have developed production lines. There's also the production of disinfectants and the development of respirators. Two respirators have been developed in a few months that are already in the production phase. Also, we have developed a mass-breathing system that we hope will never be needed. But imagine, though, that it's a development that has attracted the world's interest. Because when the patient is near that device, it's the same as the unique ventilator. So the scientific community for which we are mobilising resources, using regulation, responded extremely well, and placed its card in a fantastic way. When we talk about the virus and Professor Ferenc James was referred to here, well, Professor James thanks to the Crown Virus, a National Laboratory of Virology was launched in Pécs. What is this, if not a good response to life's challenges, if not a good answer to a serious question and a serious answer? [[20.30]] This laboratory, how can I say it? He stood there eight years ago, he was there, and as a rector, I tried very hard to get him to know that I wasn't really successful; now the coronal virus has done that. There is a team that has been able to describe the arrival of the first coronal virus in Hungary, so its path with genetic testing of the virus is a quick response, yes, I think. The basic question is: is it good that someone from the status of a civil servant comes into a legal relationship governed by the Labour Code? Obviously, show me one union that says it's very good. Well, I don't. By the way, I can answer the Member that we have done all the necessary consultations, and this is documented. I don't know, it must have been some kind of technical error to back up your information, but I have a list of who we've consulted and what kind of opinion they've given. There wasn't a single union that would support that KJ. This is natural, but we are not thinking of subjugating anyone, putting them in an impossible position, and the rest, but we want the scientific community that is making serious discoveries every day to be more successful in the field of exploitation. All structural and regulatory and resource changes serve this purpose. Competitive wages and infrastructure. I think that we have taken the first step on this line, too, but the further steps are covered by the fact that the budget of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network is growing by 22 billion in the form of an infiltrator. The OTKA question has come up. Yes, it was, and hopefully will be, an established order for the evaluation of the OTKA applications. During the evaluation, we wanted to better reflect the importance of scientific parameters. I've been dipping in the world of science for the last few decades, so I know that you can't absolute the number of publications, or the impact factor, the citation, but how do I put it? It should mean thinking or judging. At the time when the evaluation of the applications was carried out, we saw a difference between the scientific parameters and the final decision for 19 applications. During the consultations, which were denied by many, but there were, during the consultations, they went down to nine, and in nine cases we actually touched on the fact that instead of a Q4 application, a Q2 or Q1 proposal, which is characterised by weaker scientific parameters, we put forward a Q2 or Q1. Let me say this, and obviously not necessarily talk about good names, and I don't want to, but those who have been the top researchers in the world and in Hungary have come out of the proposal earlier, who, for example, have been able to outline one of the characteristics of the coronal virus in connection with the coronal virus epidemic, a certain quality, to prove what is related to its behaviour and virulence. It was very top-of-the-line. Obviously, when a person enters such a system in any way, it triggers criticism, and criticism must be taken into account. We've been paying attention. At the request of the Minister, I have consulted the Secretary-General of the Academy several times over the past six weeks to remedy this situation and not to create any more ambiguous situations. I'm hoping we can come to an agreement in the near future. We would like to provide the Academy with a completely different location in terms of autonomy, autonomy and heights in the OTKA evaluation system. Now, that's all I can say about this, or that's all I can tell you, because I don't want to jinx it, we're in the moment before the settlement. Tomorrow afternoon, I will have another meeting with the Secretary-General of the Academy, a meeting, and I hope that there will be an agreement that we can bring to the public. Congressman Hiller, Mr Vice-President, Minister, I am happy to use any title in his speech to say that what we are doing is not done in faith, while on the other hand we have received that this is a debate of faith; I know that the two are not the same, and I would not want to hit this joke in this sense. What can I believe? And, by the way, I accept your kindness when your criticism is expressed, but I will tell you my creed in this matter. I believe in the freedom of higher education, at all, of educational institutions, manual control is always a more complicated system, although I grew up in it, in which I was able to cope with my own world or life, and perhaps I could achieve something, and the position of secretary of state is not the highest for me in that sense. I still do science today, not because I have to, but because science takes people to a different world. Yeah, you can't go home, either at home, to the study, or to the lab, and then you'll think of something, it's coming; it's either coming or it's not good when it comes. This more flexible system would like to support this, with better existence, better infrastructure and higher salaries. I do not think that a researcher will do more research because of his status as a public servant or under the Code of Labour, but perhaps because of his increase in his salary, he is able to compete at a different level in the scientific competition of the world because this is a competition and he is able to make use of the otherwise unappreciated tender opportunities available either at home or at, let us say, at EU level. What we Hungarians are very weak at is the taking of EU funds. At the time when we were able to get 0.6 per cent of the Horizon contest, that's the shame category. I, too, am ashamed as a researcher that I could not succeed there, but our colleagues must be put in that position, not only on the issue of resources, but also on management and other aspects, to apply for success, because there are many sources in the Union, and not just what is officially going to happen to us, but also on another path. [[20.40]] At a time when we now have a university above ten in the European university system proposed and established by President Macron, it was a huge success for me; it was not an individual success, but the success of a person working in the area of the system, because they are in a medium, a network that draws the universities with it. When I had problems at the University of Pécs because of the shrinking number of students, and despite our absence, we created a base of 200 million for our lack of around 4 billion, we moved between 2-4 for internationalization, it was the best executive decision of my life, because when I became a rector in 10, I had 1100-1200 foreign students when I handed the rectorate over to my successor in 18 years, and I had four thousand-four hundred students. Not only the university milieu has changed from many foreign students, but also the city's milieu. In the downtown you can hear more foreign speeches than Hungarian. Isn't that right, Congressman? [[Dr. László Keresztes: I don't know, I'm from Kaposvár.]] I'm talking about Pécs. Well, then, when you are in position, certain decisions, many kinds of decisions must be made. It took me a lot of work to get it when our university didn't get the title in 2010 with six years of work; not with my job, but in my organization, in my management. It's a great thing for a university. I hope that the changes that are taking place now, whether in higher education or in science, will provide a better opportunity to move forward, to compete in the world. I do not agree with the idea that competitiveness is not important in science, but it is important because this is how we are measured. I'm not sure it's good, by the way, but it's still good. On this basis, we can achieve certain results. In general, I wanted to say these things, but there were some specific questions that I should answer. Actually, I don't understand this neoliberal science policy. I'm sure it's far from us, but I trust what we're doing isn't. I was talking about the faith debate. That it wasn't worthy of me to be here, I don't know. I want to give you an honest answer. I don't think it's unfair to be present in this House. This is the House of the country, a beautiful building, I love this house very much. It may not be worthy of being a secretary of state, but life makes it possible to have secretary of state. You may know that I didn't stand in line for this, but you convinced me that I could do something professional, something that would help the system that I came from. I believe that a change of model will help the university's leeway, the existence. I believe that extra resources will help you perform better, and I also believe that if you get a chance to say a few sentences here, it's a good thing. I'm a naive soul, maybe I'm wrong, but even if it's already said, I'll tell you. With regard to the resources of Pécs, at all, regarding the withdrawal of funds, yes, I am very grateful to the Member that he always asks this question, and that he could annoy me, but no, I am grateful for that. I am grateful, because Commissioner Hiller can tell you that it is not the case that if someone in a ministry thinks that we are giving these resources here and there now, it is on its way. There was a naive phase in my life when I thought it was just a way to figure it out and make sense of it, and now we can do it. No, on top of that, this coronal virus thing, and I don't want to put everything back on track, it's affected the economy significantly, and we don't know how it's gonna affect it yet. When this fund was created, it was created to manage economic problems and everything else. I told you about science. I think that the now more of a $4 billion fund that we have spent on those twenty-something projects was, I think, extremely worth it, but there is another investment in the future that can bring all intelligent projects to the final victory. The University of Pécs was also affected by withdrawal. By the way, the first round was around 23 billion, which we were able to bring down to around 14 in a relatively one week by returning this withdrawal to the institutions involved in patient care. Since then, we have been working to make up for withdrawal in the educational field. At the moment, I do not know what version of the proposal that we would like to remedy this has been made, but in the meantime, in particular, institutions that have otherwise been involved in patient care and care for viral patients and have received significant resources in research and other channels. The additional funding of the University of Pécs of 5.7 billion is about campus development in the framework of the previously launched Modern Cities programme. I think it needs to be finished, and it needs to work in a good quality. To restore operational resources, I can say very directly that it is in progress. Let's hope we can succeed. At the same time, I must add that we monitor the economic situation of all the institutions, so we know exactly where the shoes are tightening, what resources are needed, and we have only formulated what is necessary. I trust that we can work this out, all the more so, because, by the way, these institutions have been very successful in solving the fact that in the first semester, because of Covid, six months has not been lost to anyone. We also hope that by reorganizing the new academic year that started in September... because each institution has reorganized its own education, brought forward training that if we have to switch overnight to absentee education, we can still succeed in closing the year. I think it's important to everyone. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Time's up? Then I'm sorry. I'm overreacting, Mr. President.
u2020-11-03-222	I say this with a painful heart, Mr. Secretary, but if there are any other very important issues, I can do so by virtue of my presidential powers. Don't let anyone have any tension. I think it is a rare moment when people in this House speak so honestly and clearly. [[20.50]]
u2020-11-03-223	There's one thing you have to react to about Minister Palkovics. I was shocked when I found out what his real science was. I'm trying to put it the simplest way. He was one of the first in the world, certainly in Hungary, who not only thought about brakes in drums and disc brakes, but also brought the computer into this. The development he developed for trucks and trucks, and one of his colleagues for cars, revolutionized the braking system used in vehicles. For example, I have this system to thank for the fact that when my right rear tire detached at 140 tempo, this system was a safe stop for the car. [[Tamás Csányi: No more than 130 in Hungary!]] We said it was honest... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He was in Germany!]] The point is that his science, applied research and development means the safety of cars and people in the world. So he can be criticized, and I respect him, by the way. I would like to thank everyone for their criticism, support and help. Thank you for your attention. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-224	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your extremely effective, detailed and clear answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the faction: - Respect for the heroes! It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-11-03-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to thank the Secretary of State for his answer. I think it is important to say that I believe that Minister Palkovic's scientific performance in this House has not been and I do not think he will. On 4 November 1956, at 4 a.m., Soviet troops launched an attack on Hungary with the clear aim of defeating the revolution; the revolution in which the Hungarian people stood up for their freedom raised their voices and their weapons against oppression. The Soviets have launched the attack with 30,000 soldiers, and the Soviet invasion has spared no one and nothing, and they have cruelly run through this country. With the greatest respect, we remember the heroes of 1956, those who, even in such a situation, bravely fought against multiple, one hundred times, one thousand times overpowering. Allow me to remember specifically a group of freedom fighters whose names and reputations may not have been heard yet, but who have kept the flames of the revolution for the longest time. We now call them the Mecsek Invisible, and they are the ones who fought against the Soviet outnumber for the longest, three weeks. On November 3rd, the Soviet troops marched into the city of Pécs with enormous overpowers without any particular resistance. Kálmán Csikor, who was responsible for protecting the city of Pécs, called on the inhabitants not to oppose the incoming Soviet troops, but a handful of soldiers, miners, workers and students decided to continue their resistance and pull up to the Mecsek Forest in the Mecsek Mountains. The largest number, typical of the Mecsek Invisibles, was 600-800. They kept fighting against the mighty outnumber as long as they could. At the Mecsek Gate, they were able to fire a Soviet armored man, and later they were able to dispose of more tanks. On November 5 and 6 there were serious fights on Highland Road, in Pécs, the Soviets destroyed Tettye Hotel and the surrounding houses. A lot of people died and got hurt. Paramedics in Pécs self - sacrificingly took the injured to the hospital, where, despite the blackout, they were nursed by candlelight. After the battles in Dottye, the revolutionaries marched to the Dömörkapu, where Dr. Géza Horváth, led by a doctor, the Gazda, mentioned by that name, reorganized themselves. At that time, there were about 300 of them. The military leadership of the troops was entrusted to Captain János Kubicza, who graduated from Ludovika, knew the mountains of Mecsek well, and his experience in World War II was important to freedom fighters. In his recollection, Kubicza later mentions three points of the Mecsek Invisibles. To endure and then occupy the city of Pécs until the forthcoming, hoped and expected positive decision of the United Nations, to implement a declaration of neutrality submitted by the government to the world's public. To connect with the other groups supposedly operating in the Mecsek area and the Transdanubian resistance forces, and to disprove the Kádár Soviet puppet government with a ruthless Gerillah face, according to which everything is in order and quiet and the counterrevolution is eliminated. On the 11th, the Soviets discovered their headquarters, and then they transferred their activities to the territory of Kisújbánya, East Mecsek. On November 14th, an attack was launched on the police station in Pécsvárad, where one of the revolutionaries, Otto Márics, the leader of the Otto group, lost his life. In the end, only 58 of the team who were tired of the hopeless struggles were left. On 22 November, 42 revolutionaries crossed the Yugoslavian border at Bélavár. Retribution was not missed in Pécs, the captured revolutionaries were sentenced to a long prison sentence for organizing the overthrow of the democratic order of the people. József Petrus, the leader of the movement in Pécs, was sentenced to death in March. Dr. Mihály Domjan, who was involved in the battles, remembered with truly shocking thoughts the terrible things that happened at that time. Literally quote:.. I can't forget the fire of the terrible cannons. I can't forget the twisted human entrails on the branches of the candlewood, the shreds of clothing, and the bloody bra among them. I can't forget that softie I stepped on wrapped in the woods under the Misina roof, it was a human hand, with a wedding ring on its finger. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As members of the Hungarian Parliament, I think that we should respectfully remember the heroes of 56 and allow me, as a representative of Pécs, Baranya, to remember the Invisibles of Mecsek with special respect. Respect for the heroes! [[Zoltán Balczó applauds.]]
u2020-11-03-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, It's hard to say, please understand. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:.The Hungarian-German economic relations and what is behind him. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-03-227	Thank you for the floor. I'm forced to continue with such a prosaic subject. By the way, I myself signed up for the national funeral on 4 November for the day of tomorrow to speak after the agenda. The Hungarian economy is very heavily dependent on the German economy, its condition, economic activity or decline. What are they based on? Obviously, it is primarily those German, otherwise international, large companies that are established in Hungary, especially car manufacturers and assembly plants. They benefited from the Orbán government's economic strategy and received indirect funding of HUF 90 billion, increased infrastructure development and local government discounts. The good relationship between the German large companies and the Orbán government is also indicated by the fact that the Hungarian State returned 44 billion of the HUF 303 billion corporate tax collected in 2019 as direct support, while the Hungarian companies received only 26 billion. [[21.00]] A relationship based on mutual benefits and addictions has been established, and this is also achieved at a personal level, as quoted in the Direkt36 portal's fact-finding paper, when he quoted a former high-ranking Fidesz pro-government politician that Viktor Orbán often represents the interests of German producers directly in the EU Council. This was also the Volkswagen diesel scandal in 2015. What do we get in return? Obviously, it gives Hungarian GDP a higher GDP, a direct 4.5 percent of the automotive industry and 10-12 percent of the Hungarian GDP, which, of course, is basically statistical data, and because of profit exports, this does not mean that this is useful for us. We get jobs, yes, we get jobs, and, of course, if these were to disappear in specific regions, this would be a very big disadvantage, but these jobs are based on cheaper wages and labour market vulnerability. The so-called slave law, which is an open secret, was practically created at the request of the German automotive executives, which they boast about. But Viktor Orbán gets more in return for this. On the one hand, the feeding of his clientship, as they are recommended by the Hungarian government to the partners of large companies, and, on the other hand, Viktor Orbán can often face the legitimate expectations of the European Union, and he is able to make such ratings that I gave them, members of the European Parliament, coke, saller, the Commission works worse than a Hungarian country club. In the use of EU funds, they overlook fraud, they overlook the fact that OLAF clearly took a position on its son-in-law's project of HUF 14 billion that it could not be paid out from EU funds. For the convergence programme, the Council stated that there are systemic shortcomings in public procurement, no decisive and systematic action to prosecute high-level corruption, no effective redress against the prosecution's decisions when no criminal proceedings are launched. All this is said, but it does not actually have any consequences, because these large multinational German companies have enormous power in politics. There will not be major economic actors and oligarchs on the basis of the government's decision, the situation is reversed. There, where appropriate, politicians are looking for favors for the big companies in question. For a reason, Angela Merkel here in Sopron in 2019, at the ten-year anniversary, praised Viktor Orbán for his great spending of EU money. Yes, he spends it, because Günther Oettinger told us at the time that we should not withdraw money from these countries, because they come back to Germany; we are all active beneficiaries. So that's what we have behind economic relations. Of course, it is important for a new government to maintain good relations, but in such a way that it does not benefit a privileged layer, but contributes to everyone's well-being. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-03-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
