u2020-08-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon, fellow Members. I would like to welcome you and welcome all those who are monitoring our meeting today. The 5th Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Gergely Arató. Dear House, I declare 42 Members of the Parliament Act 35. On the basis of Article 4 (1) (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament on the agreement adopted by the European Council on 21 July 2020 (P/11489). In order to discuss the proposal for a political declaration No 1. The Extraordinary Meeting was convened by the Speaker of Parliament, as requested, for today. First, the speeches before the agenda will take place. Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-08-03-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It seems that not one of the 132 brave men today has taken the liberty of coming and calling the government and the Prime Minister to account for the adoption in Brussels of an agreement that does not contain the conditions that they voted on here in Parliament at the time. The fact is that Parliament does not have a responsible government, but the Prime Minister has a parliament of his own, or rather Viktor Orbán has 131 people who can do anything for him at any time. By not coming here today, the Fidesz MEPs prove that they are increasingly men of power and are becoming less and less representatives of the people. But the Fidesz government is not brave enough to protect our natural values from profit-hungry oligarchs, profit-hungry investors who are lining up our favourite lakes, Lake Balaton, Lake Venice, Lake Old Tata or Lake Fertő. At Lake Balaton, we cannot slowly lay down a towel without benefiting Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz. During the construction of their luxury hotels, luxury apartments, luxury campsites, they destroy the green area, destroy the reeds and destroy the environment. In Tihany they build a nature reserve without any particular consequences: agricultural buildings that look like luxury villas; they build a reservoir that looks like a luxurious swimming pool with a tensioned water mirror. At Lake Venice, the Fidesz majority, the Fidesz municipality, would like to amend the construction regulations to include the green, free-to-use area so far, and to block the free beaches from the public. At Lake Öreg, Tata, they want to build a 20-foot-high, 120-bedroom giga hotel; they want to increase the capacity from 2 to 40 percent, thereby endangering one of Tata's greatest natural attractions, the wild goose population. At Lake Fertő they are also planning a huge investment, it is true that here it is not the Fidesz oligarchs, but the Hungarian state itself; they are planning a 100-bedroom, 100-seat hotel, a 1000-boat port, which was only 200 sailors before. And two years ago, the beach was closed on the basis of construction, the locals are unable to use the beach, and after the construction, this is expected to be a paid beach. In addition, they would break down the pile houses that are a symbol of Lake Fertő, which seems completely insane. So a government calling itself conservative doesn't care about our natural values at all. We do not understand why they can only develop why they can only renew the green area so that it can be built into it. But we could see that this was also the idea at City Park: they also wanted to renew the City Park by installing it. But fortunately, in October last year, people's power helped prevent this kind of harmful process. Although the Fidesz Members may not have come up now because they are not brave enough, they have not come up now because they want to enjoy the summer in the luxury hotels and luxury villas of Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz. They can do it, they have a budget; unfortunately, half the Hungarian people have no framework to go on vacation this year. And the smaller settlements you live in, the older you get, the less chance you have of going to Lake Balaton on holiday. Balaton is also constantly changing, there is less private accommodation; less and less cheap flames; more and more luxury apartments and luxury restaurants. A small-money man can't afford the Balaton anymore. That is why the Dialogue believes that, at the latest in 2022, people must be replaced by the power of the people of power. The Dialogue will insist that the new government has a Ministry of the Environment, a responsible ministry that protects our natural values, protects our favourite lakes; and we must pursue a social policy in the future that will help as many people as possible to afford a holiday, as many people as possible to relax at Lake Balaton. Thank you very much.
u2020-08-03-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be no reaction on behalf of the Government, and it is expected that the same will happen in the case of speeches before the forthcoming agenda. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]] Mr Péter Ungár applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-08-03-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fact is that it is not surprising that our pro-government fellow Members did not come, because they should have responded to what a fool it was, that they accepted a resolution proposal, which they themselves did not expect from the majority of governments. The fact is that when the Fidesz resolution proposal on the European Union was being negotiated, the Group of the LMP said that it was a clown, because we knew precisely that the terms and conditions of the loan package were not decided by the Hungarian Parliament, not by the Hungarian people, but by Viktor Orbán and his ally, Angela Merkel, and we can see precisely that this was the case. In fact, no matter what was written on that paper, the point was that the Prime Minister and the German Chancellor could fulfill the interests of the German automotive industry most deeply in Hungary. According to the LMP, an institutional system based on pragmatism is the European Union and it is therefore unfortunate to have a symbolic and extreme rhetoric on it. The fact is that the European Union is not the source of all evils, and not all Hungarian problems are solved. At the same time, there's something we can't get past that tells us a lot about Fidesz. This year began before the Crown Virus crisis with Viktor Orbán's enlightenment and the idea that he was a green politician. On the other hand, in Brussels, when it was possible for the European Union to finally do something to combat climate change, in line with the interests of the German coal industry and the German automotive industry, Viktor Orbán blocked us from spending real money to combat climate change; in fact, the Hungarian-German-Polish threesome was evacuating the package on climate change, which, for the first time, would have been a real step in making the European Union take its share of the fight against climate change. I ask everyone who thinks it is important to fight climate change to confront this concrete act of the government's onionous rhetoric about the created environment. The next time you hear a wonderful speech from State Secretary Balázs Orbán about what Roger Scruton said, think that when they could have done something, they acted against climate change. [[13.10]] The fact is that even though there is a conclusion among the adopted conclusions of the European Council on the rule of law, the rule of law and what Hungary's situation will be with regard to EU money, we know precisely that it was put into a limbo on purpose, they did so on purpose without knowing exactly what the consequences would be, that it would not be possible to know exactly how any sanctions against Hungary would be imposed. This is precisely because the German and Hungarian governing parties are playing to this confused and incomprehensible solution, and in some ways they are inaccessible, because the Hungarian governing party can show their own war in such a confusing situation, and the German governing party can serve both its capital and its own liberal electorate in such a confusing situation. This confusing situation has been shown in the Latin American soap opera with Fidesz's EPP membership, which we do not know how it ends; unfortunately, the Christian Democratic People's Party is still a member of the European People's Party and Fidesz is currently suspended. We claim that Viktor Orbán's support in Berlin and Brussels is not a derailment of the European system, but the essence of the German hegemony. As long as Viktor Orbán pursues a policy appropriate to the Audi, the BMW, he will enjoy immunity; as soon as he does not do so, the real rule of law procedure will come. According to the LMP, it is not necessary to conclude a strategic partnership with these large multinational companies, but to do so with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. According to the LMP, it is not tax forints to be given to these large multinationals, but it is necessary to make a living from the civil servant pay table, so that an elderly caregiver does not earn 178 thousand forints. The priority is not to do everything we can to help the European Union's central countries by lying to competitiveness. Finally, the relationship between the Orbán government and the European Union is currently evolving to be good for everyone, good for the capital of the central country, good for Viktor Orbán, but not good for Hungarian workers. Therefore, it must not be denied that the European Union can only succeed in the future if we radically change it; if we radically change the neoliberal structure on which it exists, and if we finally have a Europe of people instead of a Europe of capital. Thank you very much.
u2020-08-03-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From the DK Group, Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány Group leader applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-08-03-5	Ladies and Gentlemen, A depraved government can bring the most moral nation to ruin. Hungary has a depraved government. I ask and recommend to my fellow Hungarians that they do not allow us to be destroyed. About two weeks ago, an excellent Hungarian patriot, mayor of one of our settlements, Bogdán Laci, passed away. I know few more honest people than he is, and I would be less ashamed if the Hungarian government or factions giving the majority of the Hungarian parliament considered his memory worthy of at least one word. Hungary has a depraved government. Who cannot say two good sentences about Bogdán Laci, about the man who, although not without discussion, at times showed that there is a different kind of coexistence between gypsy and not gypsy people, and there is a way to lift the hardest, often most despised people, then it is not our common shame, but the shame of the Hungarian government and the majority of governments. And our job is to bow our heads to a decent patriot like Bogdan Laci. We see and hear the agony of the University of Theatre and Film Arts, the agony of the university whose history is not as old as Zoltán Várkonyi or Károly Makk or Edit Domján, Dezső Garas or Ferenc Kállai, and now after the destruction of other universities, the Academy, the CEU, this is the fate of the 30th of the dogs. No party art. If art is a partisan, it's propaganda. They will kill what made it worth going to the theatre, and because it was worth watching Hungarian films in the cursed world even many, many years ago. What is happening here is unfairness, the serious mockery of Hungarian cultural heritage and artistic heritage, and it goes against everything honest, Republican people think of Hungary and Hungarian culture. You're not only depraved, you're depraved of everything that's going on around you. It's a shame what's going on here, and I can't say anything else, by the way, acknowledging the statement by the student council that I ask all those involved in this university have something to do with the care of this legacy, so that they don't play a role in this infinitely unfair and ugly game. Thirdly, I think that the News Portal Index did not particularly like what I or we represented in the Democratic Coalition at times, I think; but it is not really their job to like us. In fact, sometimes I didn't like what they said about us, but thank God they didn't mind. It's the job of the press, the newspaper, to represent your world. You say it's a business matter, they don't say anything. And tourism isn't business? Interestingly, they interfere in and intervene wherever it is in your interest, but they refuse to provide the free press, create its conditions, its independence, but also contribute to its subjugation in a food way. Hungary has a depraved government. We don't want to go with them, I suggest to my fellow countrymen.
u2020-08-03-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the MSZP Group, honourable Members, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Group leader, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-08-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first thing that arises here, given the empty benches, is where the Fidesz Members are, where the members of the government are, where the Speaker is, where Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is. I do not miss Special so much, but it should have been the case, or it should have been expected of the Prime Minister to come before Parliament and tell us what he has done in Brussels. Three weeks ago, he called an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament to vote for a billet political statement before the EU summit. It could and should have been expected to report on the outcome, such as the completion of the procedure under Article 7 against Hungary for breach of the rule of law requirements; it managed to persuade the leaders of the other EU Member States that the requirements of the rule of law, so-called brakes and balances His system is stupid; EU Heads of State and Government supported the Prime Minister in his fight against civil society organisations that defend human rights, represent green or even workers' interests. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Whether they are here or not, the answer is clear: no. The fact that the Fidesz MEPs are not here proves not only that they represent the interests of the Hungarian people, but also that they aim and enforce the interests of the Fidesz elite, the economic and power elite. This Fidesz elite is now in the best interest of playing from public property to private property all of our common treasures, Lake Balaton, Lake Venice and other free waters. Against this robbery policy, the MSZP took a referendum initiative last week; we have been collecting signatures for weeks, because the hundreds of years of public agreement cannot be broken so that rich and poor alike can benefit from the rest on the shores of our natural waters. We say that Balaton is not the Prime Minister's, not the Fidesz Elite, but all of us. We see the Prime Minister wants more Balatons for his own elite and his family, but we don't let him or his family have our lakes. Therefore, we say that whoever agrees with us that the Balaton belongs to all of us, sign the initiative of the MSZP; who agrees with us not to overbuild the Lake Balaton, sign the signature collection sheet of the MSZP; who wants a free beach on the shore of our natural waters, sign the signature collection sheet of the MSZP. Ladies and gentlemen, In a democratic rule of law of the Western European type, this would be unthinkable. Just as there would be unimaginable cases that are raging today, the government attack on the Index or the support of Mr Lőrinc with tens of billions of cash in connection with the sale of the Mátra Power Plant; it would not be possible for the Constitutional Court to ask the Government for a briefing on how to decide on the constitutionality of a government decree. And then we didn't even talk about the impossibility of civil society organisations, the colonization of fines, science and culture, the serious reduction of academic freedom and university autonomy, and even the outsourcing of civil society organisations to foundations led by government members as a means of saving power, because we can see that oil professionals are also good at acting. For us, therefore, the situation with the University of Acting is unacceptable and outrageous. And we have not yet talked about the ever-increasing strangulation of local governments, with which the government wants to retaliate with the election results of the large-scale opposition success. Ladies and gentlemen, Such a state cannot be called a rule of law. We must say that the republic in which we live is a formal republic, a non-existent republic, which is, in fact, an authoritarian system, and which we must eliminate. Therefore, for the Hungarian Socialist Party, this also means that a real struggle for freedom must be pursued. And in this fight we are not alone, we have the opposition parties, we have the opposition representatives; the time has come, my fellow Members, together, we must prepare together to stop this tumult, this power frenzy in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, The reconstruction of democracy, the division of power, freedoms and the rule of law cannot be the subject of debate for our common future, Hungary!
u2020-08-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr Brenner Koloman, Vice-President of Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-08-03-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Prosperity for all Hungarian citizens instead of trading! that could be our motto if we analyze the results of the European Union summit. Why do I think it's a bartering thing that happened at the Prime Minister's meeting? And, alive with a little reflection, we were sitting here, when 132 of the less courageous people voted in favour of the political resolution from which I spoke 3:0 in a fulfilled soccer language, in case the Prime Minister understands it at the Brussels summit. And it is not about what has been achieved and what is not, because we have already said in advance that this paper did not deserve what we have printed out this political decision on occasion; rather, the terrible thing is that the leaders of Europe have made a bad compromise after which they have all gone home and everyone has declared themselves winners. For example, I know the German press, and I tell you, honourable Members, Germany is the biggest winner of this European Union agreement, and France, which is probably true, is not for nothing. Then Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, as well as the Libernya internationale..., sorry, the former Vice-President of the Liberal International until 2001, we do remember well, fellow Members, because I remember him coming home and signaling that he has defeated everyone. I'd like to point out that Prime Minister is very excessive. And by the way, I refuse to use that hateful word on behalf of the EPP Jobbik. It is no coincidence that the Fidesz spiritual thugs are slowly threatening the Vice-President of the Parliament physically, the fidesz thugs paid with the money of the taxpayers, who have previously lived anti-Semiticly against President Peter James, and who joked about the elimination of the Hungarian and European Germans, with the powerful support of Szilárd Demeter, the cultural pope of Fidesz. Shame, shame! The next great lesson for the European Union summit is that multinational companies and the Oligarchs near Fidesz and the oligarchs close to large politicians in other countries will benefit again. Here again, I would like to refer to the detailed analysis of my fellow Member, Mr Zoltán Balczó, former MEP of Jobbik, which shows that there is no way to apply directly to the European Union for more money than before in this new budget; small and medium-sized enterprises, cohesion funds and rural development again do not have the right money in this budget, if we look at the proportions, because politics is always about the proportions, and of course, it will be possible to classify the billions, the majority of which we know through overpriced public procurement who will land with. The next thing I want to draw the attention of this House is the credit bomb. Because the stingy four, who also went home in a short-sighted way, and said in their own countries that of course they had won, because we didn't give money to the southern states that asked us to do so, just forget that these stingy four would make them even more indebted over the longer term to those Member States in South Europe, which, in fact, were seriously affected by the coronal virus epidemic, which could then shake the financial and economic system of the European Union as a whole. The credit bomb's ticking. Let us summarize what happened at the European Union summit. We must establish that the future of the European Union is in danger, and that the pro-neutral Jobbik will not underestimate the danger of liberal fog eaters or populist frenzies in this matter, because we believe in a Christian social welfare Europe as well as the founding fathers of the European Union: Konrad Adenauer, De Gasperi, Schuman. Prosperity and freedom for all Hungarian citizens, the good cooperation of nations in Europe! And this European Union will only work if it has common values; we cannot build a Europe together with trade-offs and compromises without value, honourable fellow Members. We, representatives of the People's Party Jobbik, are fighting together to be a decisive element of a national unity government as a centre-right party in 2022, so that we can also represent the interests of Hungarian citizens at European Union level. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-08-03-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear House, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament Ákos Hadházy on 27 July 2020 14.B.563/2020/2. I'm a member of the Pécs District Court on a private charge of defamation. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I regret to say that Parliament does not have a quorum. [[Noise, interruptions. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Can't we count it by machine? Let's count it. Dr. Lajos Oláh: A visible majority!]] If my fellow Members had listened to what I had said, I regretted the fact that the Parliament was not a quorum. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Let's take a look at the presence by machine.]] [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that Mr György Balla, Deputy Head of the Group, has in a letter initiated the repetition of the vote by means of a ballot counting machine. In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote using the ballot counting machine. [[Vote.]] I note that, when the agenda was adopted, a total of 33 votes, 1 votes against and 1 abstentions, 35 people voted, i.e. 35 registered to the Parliament meeting today with the help of the ballot counting machine. Based on this, I'm going to determine that the Parliament is inoperable. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! On the basis of written information from the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, as well as announcements of the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. Based on this, the house rules are 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I will establish the list of missing representatives and I will have them posted. In the absence of an agreed agenda proposal, no item on the agenda may be discussed. I would like to inform you that you will be informed of the date of the next Parliament meeting. The meeting is closed, and I wish you all a good day.
