u2020-11-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and Gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Dear House, Fellow Members! In 2013, the Hungarian government declared November 4th, the first day of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence to be a national day of mourning. So today we're sitting on a national day of mourning. In 1956, after the bloody days ending with the hope of the winning revolution in October, the people of the country began to build a new, free and democratic home from the ruins. For a few days full of grief, faith and hope, the Soviet troops launched an invasion of Hungary on November 4 in the morning. However, our freedom struggle could not be crushed in one day. At the same time as the attack of the Soviet superpower, hopeless armed resistance began in Budapest and some parts of Hungary. Later, the opposition of the captured political leaders and the population made it even more difficult for the invaders and the Hungarian Communist leaders to complete their ignominious mission as quickly as possible. Opponents of the amazing overpower showed that Hungarians are not only able to gain freedom, but, if necessary, willing to sacrifice their lives for it in the most hopeless situation. All this was undertaken so that, at dawn on 4 November, János Kádár's radio speech made it clear to them that the Hungarian revolution had been betrayed. Nevertheless, they opposed the re-Soviet conquest. They were confident that their persistent struggle could bring about the intervention of the UN and the Western countries. They hoped that an uneven struggle would not be unnecessary. The people of Hungary have paid enough blood to show the world's attachment to freedom and justice. Now it is the power of the world to show the strength of the principles of the UN Statute that István Bibó spoke to all the countries of the world on November 4, in the name of his fellow countrymen who feared for his freedom. Bibo wrote these words as a member of the last Parliament of the Imre Nagy government, facing Soviet soldiers occupying the building. Today, we know that their trust in foreign help was in vain, not the sacrifice of our heroes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At this moment, on Sunday morning, 4 November, the world knows that mass murder took place in the middle of Europe. A nation is being assassinated by a foreign power. The nation will survive this attempted murder. At what cost? We don't know that right now, but he's gonna make it. On that day Sándor Márai spoke to the peoples of the world and to all Hungarians from the Radio Free Europe studio in New York. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary survived everything that was done against it in 1956. He survived, but he paid a high price for it both then and then. Due to the events of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, at least 2700 people died all over the country, more than 1900 people died only in the capital. The armed occupation was followed by the bloodiest political retaliation in Hungarian history, in which hundreds of our countrymen were executed, nearly 900 were dragged to the Soviet Union, and more than 20,000 were interned or imprisoned. But we must not forget that during and after the revolution 200,000 Hungarians were forced to leave their homeland. Dear House, Fellow Members! It is also thanks to the indescribable truth and the brave sacrifice of our 1956 heroes, which cannot be erased from our memory, that our nation survived the new Soviet occupation. Let us now remember the well-known and unknown Hungarians, heroes and victims who sacrificed everything they had to turn our country's fate to the right. Remember, if we keep them in our memory, they will live forever. Please pay tribute to your sacrifice with a one-minute setup. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you very much. Dear House, General debates are now being held. I would like to draw your attention to the increased compliance in the Chamber with the protection requirements of the pandemic epidemic. The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for 2019 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it will follow. Report submitted by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights B/8769. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/11093. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Kozma, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. Mr. Ákos Kozma, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, will give his report from his place. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to add an oral amendment to the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for the year 2019. However, given that my oral additions may have been made before the Judicial Committee and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, allow me to add only a few points to our written report this time. Firstly, given that the report before you is about the year 2019, allow me to thank my predecessor, Commissioner László Székely, here, because this report is a three-quarter presentation of his work. I would also like to thank Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and Deputy Commissioner Gyula Bándi for their conscientious work, whose activities in 2019 are also included in this report. Dear Parliament, Our report is in the spirit of honesty. It also includes the good and the bad, it presents the results we have achieved, but it also draws attention to the problems where in the future we still need to polish some elements of public or public service operations. [[9.10]] Our investigations, on-the-spot checks, then our reports and findings focus on the three most important elements in each case: man, man and man. Dear Parliament, 2019 was a year of change at the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Parliament has elected a new Commissioner, the office has moved to a new seat, and the employees of the office have been granted a new legal status and are entitled to a new salary. After these introductory thoughts, allow me, of course, to mention some of the technical findings of the report without the need for completeness. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, having regard to his constitutional function and his legal powers, is involved in explicit codification work only exceptionally. However, by drawing up legislative proposals and giving a fundamental opinion on draft legislation, it can make a significant impact on the preparation of legislation. In 2019, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was asked to comment on 108 draft legislative acts. However, this number is 30 percent less than the number of legislation sent to us in 2018 for an opinion; in 2018 we adopted 154 such legislation. Obviously, there are many reasons for this reduction. However, it was also possible that, although the ministries sent a number of proposals to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, they did not fully comply with their obligation to consult legislation in 2019. More than a third of the draft legislation came from the Ministry of Human Resources, almost a quarter from the Ministry of Human Resources, but some ministries did not request the opinion of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on any occasion. As in previous years, the proposals were, unfortunately, sent for an opinion with a very limited time limit. The short deadline for opinions makes it difficult for the Commissioner to give a meaningful opinion on the proposals. The Ombudsman therefore maintained in all cases, irrespective of his position in the opinion, the right to initiate subsequent amendments to the legislation already published. In 2019 the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights issued a total of 57 reports, 19 of which initiated amendments to legislation or an overview of the legal environment in general. These legislative proposals covered a wide range of issues, family support, children's rights, enforcement, national preventive mechanism reports, expropriation and forestry issues. This multifaceted legislative and legislative proposal of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights supports the fact that the former Commissioner for Fundamental Rights institution, which integrates even specific Commissioner functions, effectively ensures the protection of certain constitutional rights in our country. Dear Parliament, On 10 December 2019 the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights extended the powers of the Parliament by creating a law; then he adopted the law whereby the Independent Police Complaints Board ceased from 27 February 2020 and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights took over his duties. Given that the new powers have not been taken over during this reporting period, I would therefore obviously like to present a detailed report on this in the following year. However, we also indicate here that the legislator has made the examination of police complaints more effective by removing the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the parallels in the fundamental rights protection activities of the Independent Police Complaints Board, by extending the time limit for submitting a complaint, by broadening the rights of action, and by making the investigation of police complaints more transparent and accessible to complainants. The warranty elements of the personal and organisational independence required for the examination of police complaints, which also existed in the case of the Independent Police Complaints Board, also naturally exist in the person of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights as the Supervisory Body of Parliament. The legal deadline for lodging a complaint has been extended from 30 days to one year, and the law ensures that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights can take part in the proceedings for the review of a police decision taken following the transmission of his report and can therefore present his findings and arguments of fundamental rights directly to the determining court. In addition to its proposal to remedy the individual complaint, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was also authorised by law to propose to the national police commissioner or to the Director-General to issue, amend or repeal instructions. Dear Parliament, As I have said, I would like to make a detailed report on this subject in relation to our activities for the following year. However, I would like to say so much to conclude on this subject that this task has been taken over effectively and within the legal deadline. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also acts as a quasi-child-rights ombudsman in Hungary, so his inquiries, reports and other public statements together draw the focus on the rights of the child. In 2019, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights delivered sixteen reports on the rights of the child, which are almost one third of all reports. The topics are the most diverse, educational issues, persistent lack of development of children with special educational needs, home care fees, and many other issues involving children's lives and existence have been addressed by the Office through the process of guardianship. In 2019 we also held a number of on-site child rights investigations from Tornanataska to Zalaegerszeg to Budapest. A child-centred approach is also particularly important in the broad healthcare system. As a result, in 2019 we examined the practice of the joint placement of the mother and the newborn in Hungarian hospitals, and we examined the conditions for the child- and parent-friendly operation of the premature-intensive classes. We have also dealt with the current problems of access to education for children who have been permanently treated in hospital. Finally, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that, in connection with our work on the protection of the rights of the child, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, which was published at the beginning of 2019, acknowledged the activities of the Hungarian Ombudsman. Now allow me to say a few words about the public-interest reporting system. The protection of the rights of whistleblowers is based on two pillars in our country. One is an electronic system for making and registering announcements of public interest operated by our office, while the other is a review of the public interest notification of the competent bodies. In 2019, 368 submissions were received through this electronic system, an increase of 20 percent compared to the previous year. The announcements are very diverse. In many cases, they concern police measures, Internet fraud, data fishing, data protection announcements, illegal garbage disposal, water pollution, air protection, taxation. The palette is very wide. The request for a review of the procedure of bodies examining public announcements came to our office last year in 77 cases. In all six of these cases, the procedure of the audited body did not fully comply with the requirements of the relevant legislation, thereby violating the right to petition, legal certainty and the right to a fair administration of public affairs. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, In its activities, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has always been in close contact with the institutions in the field of national and international human rights protection, whose work has been assisted by its resolutions, its professional materials and, if necessary, by consultations. In line with the broad mandate and responsibilities of the Commissioner, I and my colleagues are constantly involved in the work of various ombudsman's umbrella organisations dealing with the protection of rights. Since my entry into office, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has followed an international strategy focusing on developing an active international presence and developing intensive communication and professional cooperation with international actors in the protection of human rights. The last three months of last year have given me a good opportunity to implement this strategy. Dear Parliament, According to the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has acted as a national preventive mechanism in Hungary since 1 January 2015. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights also regularly examines, in the performance of the tasks of the National Preventive Mechanism, the treatment of persons deprived of liberty in detention places, in the absence of a pleading in order to prevent mistreatment, and in the absence of circumstances suggesting that there is maladministration in relation to fundamental rights. The purpose of the visits to the national preventive mechanism is to encourage the authorities and institutions concerned to improve the effectiveness of their measures to prevent mistreatment. In 2019, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his staff, acting in the role of the National Preventive Mechanism, carried out an unannounced visit to ten detention sites, during which a total of 3162 detention places were inspected. Despite the fact that all visits took place without prior notification, the visiting groups entered the detention sites without delay, the staff of the detention sites fulfilled their duty of cooperation. Visitors' groups had unrestricted and unrestricted access to detention places, to persons deprived of their personal liberty, and to documents related to detention. The 2019 National Preventive Mechanism reports initiated 86 measures to prevent or eliminate mistreatment. The measures are addressed in 68 cases to the place of detention visited, in 14 cases to its supervisory body. In four other cases, the National Preventive Mechanism has also proposed legislation. The continuous and constructive dialogue to monitor the implementation of the measures is not only the national preventive mechanism but also the statutory obligation of the leaders of the detention sites, authorities and other bodies concerned. The recipients of the measures examined the proposals of the National Preventive Mechanism, and I can report to the Honourable Parliament that they have responded substantially to them in all cases within the time limits laid down by law. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I briefly wanted to add this to our written report. Of course, in case of questions, I am happy and willing to answer them. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-04-2	Thank you very much, officer. I now give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision, also in a 30-minute time frame, who will give his supplementary speech here on the stand. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-3	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Ákos Kozma, Dear Mrs Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet Deputy Ombudsman, who protects the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. Dear Professor Gyula Bándi, who is acting as deputy Ombudsman to protect the interests of future generations. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, And since it's November 4th today, there's special respect for heroes. The heroes who, despite the Soviet invasion, insisted on fighting for freedom in Hungary. May God bless you and rest you. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the 2019 report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies was discussed and adopted by the Judicial Committee as a committee responsible for tasks and powers on 22 June 2020. During the hearing of the report, the committee examined Article 40 of the Fundamental Rights Act. § 2 and found it legitimate to comply with the consequences of paragraph 2. Ladies and Gentlemen, Article 30 of the Fundamental Law states that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out basic protection activities, that anyone can initiate proceedings. In addition, it sets out, in general terms, the fundamental rights of the Commissioner to investigate or investigate any irregularities he has come to know about fundamental rights, to initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. The Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act highlights the areas to which particular attention should be paid. In accordance with these regulations, the report presents the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the most vulnerable social groups, in particular the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. In the last two years, Parliament has repeatedly amended the mandate and powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. As a result of the legislation of 2019, the role of the Independent Police Complaints Board has been transferred to the Commissioner's duties since February 2020 and the new institutional structure of the Office has been established. In addition, the salary arrangements for the staff of the Commissioner's Office have been implemented. These important and important changes have been made largely this year, so we will discuss them in detail in the debate on next year's report. A significant change in the role of the Commissioner is that in 2019 he became a new, albeit not final, seat of his office, which, however, did not affect the effectiveness and effectiveness of fundamental rights protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, To sum up, I can say the following. The Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights received a total of 5693 cases in 2019, 80% of which, 4565 cases were still closed in the year of arrival. In addition to the complaints received, a notable figure this year is the 358 recommendations, out of which 260 recommendations have been addressed to the audited body or the supervisory body and 57 legislative proposals have been formulated. In his report, Mr Ombudsperson pointed out the importance of the National Preventive Mechanism, which focused on examining women's detention conditions in 2019. [[9.30]] In examining the circumstances and detention places of the 3162 inmates, the Ombudsman also said at the committee meeting that there was no evidence of intentional abuse by staff involved in detention involving serious physical or psychological injuries. At the committee meeting, Members asked Mr Ombudsperson and his deputies, including the measures taken to combat inequalities, the prevention of school psychological abuse, the provision of minimum hospital space, the rights of migrant children, the investigation of dual murder in Győr and the question of contacts with civil society organisations. Mr Ombudsperson has answered all the questions raised by his representatives. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Ombudsman's report shall also cover the Office's activities with an international dimension. The Office, as a national human rights institution, is in continuous cooperation with the UN and UN bodies and other international institutions acting to protect human rights. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is a member of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions under the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, composed of national human rights institutions, whose accreditation review took place in 2019. The Committee welcomes the volume published on the occasion of the 30-year anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which contains a summary of the Ombudsman's reports on 30 areas of child rights. In international terms, it is worth pointing out that the Office is regularly represented in the UN minority forums as Deputy Commissioner for Nationality. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued to expand its international relations in 2019 by joining a new international anti-corruption reporting network under the auspices of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, NEIWA. Ladies and Gentlemen, The report before us, you can see from this that it fully meets the requirements of the law. On this basis, I propose to the Honourable Parliament the adoption of the proposals for decisions by decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to express his position during the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the committee representing nationalities will now be presented. I give the floor to Speaker Giricz Vera, the Ruthenian minority advocate, who describes the first sentences of her speech in her ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Madam Speaker. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-5	Честованый пан Предс Честован... депутаты! Честованый пан и пан... Обудсман! Уд имени русинськуй сполности Мадярщины из честован Mr President, Dear House, Dear Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner, On behalf of the domestic Ruthenian minority community, I welcome you with respect. At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 29 June 2020, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. On the basis of paragraph 2 of Article 2, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and Dr. Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates as a committee related to the debate in the presence and information of Deputy Commissioner Sándor B/8769. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. During the reporting period, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of National Rights considered monitoring, evaluation and control of the legislation that serves the interests of nationalities in Hungary to be a priority. Its activities have helped to a significant extent to prepare the necessary legislative amendments to nationality and to justify them in a professional manner and to have them accepted by Parliament. The Committee commends and thanks Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor for the successful work she has done over the last nearly seven years. According to the Fundamental Law, nationalities in Hungary are state-creating factors. All Hungarian citizens belonging to a nationality have the right to their free religion and preservation of identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. The year 2019 was a period of reckoning and redesign for the area of nationality, so it was primarily about strategic decisions and the processes accompanying them. In 2019 we remembered that 25 years ago, nationalities in our country were first given the opportunity to form local minority self-governments. Part 6 of the report gives an overview of the situation of national minority rights in Hungary, especially with regard to the above-mentioned anniversary. The focus of the report consists of three different changes in the area which fundamentally determines the enforcement system: the protection of the Ombudsman's rights, the system of nationality self-government and the legislation. All three of these events have also challenged the Deputy Commissioner and his staff as they required continuous adaptation and stability despite intense external changes. The number of programmes has increased steadily since the establishment of the Deputy Commissioner's institution, i.e. from 2012 to 2018, but there has been a decline in the year under consideration. The reasons for this are the intensive summary closing period and re-election tasks related to the move of the Ombudsman's office, the outgoing Deputy Commissioner's mandate. However, it is important to point out that, according to the experience of previous elections, the number of submissions stagnated at best during the transitional periods, but generally decreased, while in 2019 the number of complaints even increased by 6 percent and reached 409. The Deputy Commissioner's work was also supported in 2019 by two separate departments: the Secretariat of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, led by Dr Tamás Török, and the Department of National Rights, Dr. Gabriella Varjú, head of department. Dr. Szalayné dr. Sándor Erzsébet's six-year-old Deputy Commissioner's mandate expired on 21 October 2019, so the Ombudsman had to appoint a new person under the Fundamental Law and the Ombudsman's Law. During the mandatory conciliation procedure, the Association of National National Governments and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary gave unanimous support to the former Deputy Commissioner. On 4 November 2019 the Parliament once again elected Dr. Szalayné dr. Erzsébet Sándor as Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary by 153 votes. In view of the fact that 2019 was also a cycle closing year, we therefore consider it appropriate to take a look back. Between 2013 and 2019, 1966 complaints were dealt with by the Deputy Commissioner, of which, on 1 January 2020, 1866 cases had already been closed, and 1515 cases had been dealt with in substance. [[9.40]] We welcome the editing method chosen by the Deputy Commissioner, using which to present submissions according to the number and type of cases and with colour figures broken down by nationality and place of residence of the petitioner, which offers a number of comprehensive conclusions, in particular the comparison of several years of changes in the series. In general, according to the Deputy Commissioner's practice, the legal background and the text of the basic legislation on the rights of nationalities have been developed, ensuring a high level of protection, thus complying with the domestic conditions and the requirements of our international commitments. However, in relation to the detailed rules, legal anomalies are common, and in some areas, for example, structural problems can be observed in the management of the local government, education, funding, the exercise of cultural and linguistic rights. The fact that, while in the case of 12 communities, submissions relating primarily to classic nationality rights have been received further nuanced, social, housing and discrimination issues have dominated the Roma community. The report points out that the majority of submissions only referred to the disadvantages arising from the administration of the Roma origins, without prejudice to specific discriminatory procedures in general. In the year of reporting, there were 70 complaints concerning the area of ethnic education, typically submissions against the shortage of teachers, the lack of equipment and equipment and the nationality content of textbooks. However, the issue of school treatment for children has also been published in relation to obstacles to compliance with the school obligation and the licensing of private learning status, as well as problems affecting public support for the school's operating costs for 2019. The correct exercise of maintenance rights has been identified as a specific problem. In the year under consideration, the Deputy Commissioner received 25 complaints concerning the operation of the national authorities, with recurring critical issues concerning conflicts of interest, funding of national authorities, operating and task-based grants, funding environment for proposals and cooperation between local and municipal national authorities. Individual and community name use is a multi-annual problem for ethnic communities. Several indications and individual complaints were received from the Deputy Commissioner's Secretariat on this subject, on which seven inquiries were opened ex officio. The investigations were still ongoing at the end of the reporting period. The Deputy Commissioner's Report highlights the fact that in 2019 we celebrated a double jubilee: the 25-year existence of the minority self-government system and the eventful period of the current elections. The scale of the process is well indicated by the fact that in 2019 2200 local ethnicities, including 1200 Roma and 62 ethnic localities, chose 20 Roma municipalities, and all 13 recognized Hungarian nationalities formed their national self-governments. It is important to stress that 20 submissions were sent to the Deputy Commissioner before and after the general elections of the national minority in 2019, which, on the one hand, gave rise to legislative criticism and, on the other hand, challenged the practice of the electoral bodies. In view of the nature and systemic nature of the complaints submitted to the Deputy Commissioner, the initiation of a comprehensive investigation following the elections of the national minority self-government was justified. The third major professional challenge of the year of the report was the preparation of a comprehensive amendment to the national minority law law. In 2017, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary drew up a draft bill containing a number of amendments to the national minority law, the various versions of which the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner commented on several occasions and assisted in the amendment of the law with their expertise. As a member of the working group, which was set up by the Secretary of State for Church and Nationality Relations of the Prime Minister's Office, supported in particular by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, the Deputy Commissioner proposed a total of 58 technical and 31 substantive amendments and 6 general comments on the law. Nearly 90 percent of the proposals drawn up and supported by detailed justification were adopted by the working group. The report addresses in depth the nationalities of the 2021 census. In the 1910 census, more than 45 percent of the population claimed to belong to a nationality, only 2 percent of the population in the 1990 census. Unique legislation and funding based on it, as well as an institutional system in Europe, have enabled communities to develop opportunities and strengthen identity. As a result, according to data from the 2011 census, 6.5 percent of the population declared themselves to be an officially recognised nationality. In 2019, the Deputy Commissioner received several indications regarding the processing of data collected during censuses and the preparation of the 2021 census. The problems raised may not only lead to anomalies in the procedure at a principle or methodological level, but given that the census data sets have an impact on the ability of municipalities to be formed, they are decisive in a number of areas, through the use of Community languages to the financing environment, and may have a long-term impact on the exercise of collective rights of communities. Therefore, due to the multiplicity and complexity of the difficulties involved in preparing the 2021 census, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality considered it necessary to launch a comprehensive investigation. The year 2019 was special in many ways, so it is worth observing the breakdown of 202 by type, which is illustrated in colour diagrams. The activities of the Deputy Commissioner in the field of cooperation between the Ombudsmen of the V4 countries and the participation of the Vice-President and his staff in regional cooperation at European level, raising awareness of human and ethnic rights, deserve recognition. Based on the report and last year's practice, the Committee has assessed the cooperation between the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as meaningful and effective, and is confident that the joint and effective work will continue. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption in plenary of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2019. Дякуву за призур! Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-04-6	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Kovács, who will make his speech here on the platform. We'll wait for Congressman to get up on the stand, and then we'll give him the floor. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács will take the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2020-11-04-7	Mr President, Dear Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners, Dear Parliament, On behalf of Fidesz, I wish to add some of the things that President Vejkey has said to me and to put it into perspective, but it is clear that, in the case of a report, the data can be the same, or repeats, on the subject. We all know that Article 30 of the Fundamental Law defines the tasks of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, that the Commissioner carries out fundamental rights protection activities, that anyone can initiate his proceedings, that is a very important issue, and that he can initiate general or specific measures to remedy fundamental rights. The Fundamental Law also declares that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will report annually on his activities to Parliament today for this reason we are here. This topic has already been discussed very thoroughly and in detail before the Judicial Committee. In addition to the 150 - page report, the oral amendment, on the part of the Ombudsman, approached an hour, and the discussion of the subject itself took considerable time, but I think that this was important for all of us, and it served to build up everyone. The committee, by the way, found the report appropriate. As part of its activities, it presents the following areas on its own: the interests of future generations; the rights of nationalities living in Hungary; the rights of the most vulnerable social groups; the rights of people with disabilities; the practical implementation of the prohibition of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment; the rights of children. The operation of the Office. It has already been said that there has been a duality: László Székely was the former Ombudsman, and we thank him for his activities, and, of course, we have also re-elected Deputy Commissioner Sándor Erzsébet Szalayné, his work as well, and Professor Gyula Bándi's work, which goes from earlier to this period, and we thank him for this report. Dear Parliament, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights paid constant attention to priority areas of investigation in accordance with the relevant provisions and spirit of the law. There were three such areas: one dealing with the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable groups of children, the other dealing with matters concerning the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children; the Commissioner and his two alternates included the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and the protection of future generations, the right to a healthy environment. In addition, the Commissioner shall provide general information on the legal options available, irrespective of its competence, and, in the event of a need, shall provide information on the social care opportunities and assistance organisations available to the complainant, and, if necessary, may propose amendments and drafting of legislation. In 2019, a number of on-the-spot investigations into institutional operations and supply conditions with significant attention were carried out. In the case of children, a report on the problems of the functioning of the previously mentioned gymnastics homes or the Budapest Eszé Tamás Children's Home, while in relation to the rights of persons with disabilities, an examination of the operation of the Mosgó home can be mentioned. Two interlinked studies dealt with the inadequate legislative environment and sometimes worrying practice in the prevention and treatment of institutional, pre-school and school abuse. Among the Ombudsman's protection of children's rights, parents or other legal representatives who turned to the Commissioner mainly challenged the procedure of guardians, including the most frequent cases concerning parental contact and infringement of adoption, protection or education procedures. In 2019, as the Commissioner mentioned, he adopted and issued 16 reports on child rights, which are close to one third of all reports. This is also a very important and high proportion on the subject. The focus of the studies was on how fundamental rights in the field of health were exercised, whether it was the joint placement of the mother and the newborn, the child- and parental-friendly operation of the premature intensive care classes, the procedure followed in the event of leaving the medical institution without permission, or the situation of limb rescue and vascular surgery. Several reports have also addressed the education and development of children with special educational needs with disabilities. A specific part of the intersection between education and health has been reviewed in the report on the right of children permanently treated in hospital to education. Dear fellow Members, Hungary's Fundamental Law protects natural resources as a common heritage of the nation. The spokesperson for future generations has prepared a package of proposals on environmental responsibility to protect the common heritage of the nation and to promote the right to a healthy environment and to physical and psychological health, focusing on economic operators' interest in preventing environmental damage and taking real financial responsibility for the damage they cause to the environment. For all of us, the red sludge industrial disaster, on which the review judgment will now be in the Curia on the 10th, and some of the compensations are still in the air, is an exclusive example of a lack of financial responsibility of about ten years. The Deputy Commissioner participated in the development of new domestic energy and climate strategies, taking into account the importance of medium and long-term planning, as highlighted by the Constitutional Court, as well as the constitutional principles of precautionary and prevention. As a member of the professional group, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality was involved in the preparation of a comprehensive amendment to the national law. The spokeswoman has just touched on and mentioned to a significant extent her activities in this regard, the content and technical proposals for the necessary development of the legislation, which are important for nationalities. It is to be welcomed that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued to expand its international relations in 2019, and continued contacts with the networks of ombudsman's rights and human rights established at international level to address common goals and problems. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has joined the newly created international anti-corruption notification network initiated by the Dutch Ombudsman and has expanded relations with several countries' administrative and human rights commissioners. It should also be pointed out that, with regard to the successes on the international stage, Dr. Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, was elected member of the Presidency at the conference of the European Ombudsman's Institute exactly one year ago. Congratulations! Dear House, The Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has also launched inquiries in a number of specific cases in 2019 and in a comprehensive manner following a specific complaint and ex officio. The three areas were the examination of the right to life and human dignity, social rights and the requirements of the rule of law and procedural guarantees. The Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights opened ex officio inquiries in 215 cases in 2019, asked for an opinion on 108 draft legislative acts, 5963 cases were brought to the Office, of which 4565 cases were completed. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates carry out their duties under the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Rights Act at a high professional level, in a committed manner to the protection of fundamental rights. However, they regularly engage with international organisations and foreign ombudsmen. In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the 2019 report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and to support the proposal for a decision of the Judicial Committee. The Fidesz fraction supports its acceptance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2020-11-04-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre, who is speaking in place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Dear Deputys, The Ombudsman, as we all know, is a Swedish term. The idea came from Sweden itself, and it is quite old for when it was introduced in Hungary. In Sweden, this was invented in 1713 by XII. King Charles of Sweden and already incorporated in the Swedish Constitution in 1809 because in some respects they felt it was important to protect the rights of citizens. In the original plans, this was in some cases a little different, the king wanted to keep his hand on the law enforcement in his country, which is why it was created. It was not established too soon in Europe, since only the Maastricht Treaty of 1991 introduced it into the European Union, completed the Roman Treaty and created the European Ombudsman institution. And in Hungary, too, it was not possible in the time of socialism to defend civil rights, and this institution could not have been created until the change of regime. However, it is very important that it became a subject immediately after the change of regime, and it was included in the basic law and the constitution at that time in the course of the amendments, and by 1995 this institution was practically operational. By the way, this was incorporated into the Constitution by the Parliament in 1993 and has been in operation ever since. It is currently governed by Article 30 of the Fundamental Law. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out fundamental rights protection activities, anyone may initiate proceedings. It investigates, investigates and initiates general or specific measures to remedy maladministration that has been brought to its attention. The legislator has already received criticism here of why maladministration is not formulated and why it is not specifically regulated by law, what are the maladministrations that should be investigated. However, this is clearly a legislative problem, not a problem for the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. We also see that there are a lot of things that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has to deal with. In particular, help is needed for those who are unable or difficult to enforce their needs on their own, in particular the protection of children's rights, enforcement issues relating to the transfer of children, the examination of the institutions of children's homes, the possibilities against child abuse, the rights of children in education. The other large group is people with disabilities, then the problems of the homeless, the protection of the rights of the elderly, the protection of patients' rights, the protection of the rights of minorities living in Hungary, and the protection of the environment and future generations. In addition, the Ombudsman may make legislative proposals in Hungary. Mr Kozma has already pointed out that, unfortunately, the problem is that the time limits for opinions are very short, and it is not always possible, in practice, to support the proposals that they might be able to make with appropriate professional skills. That is why the right to comment or to make new proposals for this bill is maintained at a later stage. By the way, I think it's general. I do not wish to raise this as a criticism of the government, as the governments before this have generally given such an opportunity to the professional forums with a similar short period of time. This is not only the case of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but also the case of courts, prosecutors and other professional organisations. When an opinion is available, there is usually a very short time for an opinion. I am very pleased that the proposal also contains independent ideas that have been formulated in recent years from the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, in which Parliament has been proposed to legislate. I would like to highlight some of these. Back in 2016, it was proposed that the minimum hospital living space should be set out in legislation. I think this is a very important issue, and I am very pleased that you included it in your current report as a current problem. However, I very much disagree with the Minister's disagreement that this should be addressed and included in the legislative programme. This year, the issue of prison business in Parliament is an ongoing issue, where we are looking at the accommodation conditions of prisoners, which is obviously also an ombudsman's task. There, the government considers it necessary to determine the living space a convict needs, the conditions under which a convict needs to be created, but the Minister of the Sector does not consider it important what housing conditions should be in health care and that there should be a minimum living space in the hospital. I think that this is extremely important, even if certain exceptional situations can occur; for example, the present one is. When the problem is very serious, it can obviously be waived, since it is most important to ensure patient care. But I think that legislation in this area would be very important, and that the Jobbik fraction would certainly be a partner in the future in determining this. It is also a very important thing, which I also constantly perceive as a problem, the problem of the enforcement ban. As has been established, while the amount of certain social benefits provided for by law during the enforcement procedure is exempt from the ban on enforcement, they are still subject to incarnation by the work of the court enforcer, and are indeed banned and taken away. I myself have just encountered such a problem, and I have also looked into it with the bailiff. The executives said that they have a legal obligation that, for example, if the family allowance arrives in the account of the person subject to enforcement, they are obliged to take it off at the moment, even if it puts the child in serious danger. This does not affect the executioner on the basis of the legislation. In fact, it was even said that when this amount was transferred back for human reasons, disciplinary action was envisaged against them if this was not to be withdrawn in the future. I think it's another task that I'm very pleased to have been called to the attention of the Parliament. I think it is our job to create the legislative possibility for such people not to occur in the future, and to remove social benefits free of enforcement from enforcement, so that the objectives for which these social benefits have been established can actually be met. In 2016, Mr Bándi had a proposal that was still not met, and this is about lignite. We fully agree that low calorific value and severe air-polluting lignite should be excluded from the population's range as soon as possible. Gyula Bándi also proposes replacing it with firewood, as its calorific value is much better and its environmental impact is much less. We fully agree, one hundred percent, that this is also an important step for the protection of our environment. I would like to highlight one more thing about the credit debt of higher education students. In 2018, it was proposed that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, when a student takes out a loan, should be exempted from the obligation to repay the mother in case of childbearing. Here they discussed why this only applies to the mother, for when a couple are having children, in many cases the mother does not have such a debt while the father does. [[10.10]] In this case, they can't write down this loan, until if it was for the mother, then it could be written down. This goes from a common family budget, so it wouldn't make a difference in this respect. Indeed, this is also a good professional idea that should be considered and taken into consideration. What's the point here? For young people to be able to have children as soon as possible, raising children will be helped by the state in all things, and there is no way to distinguish between a woman and a man, a mother and a father, since they all share in raising children in the same way. Of course, as I said, in these areas, you can count on our faction to help you in all areas, so we support these areas. With regard to the protection of children's rights, we very much agree that children should not be used in the political campaign. Unfortunately, we have found that the governing parties have often not received this kind of recommendation, and at the same time it was completely regular when they took photos together in children's institutions for campaign photography. Then I think it is very important that there is a continuous monitoring of children's home institutions. I think that this is a little bit of an area that might need more attention in the future. What we see from the report is that where the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Office have been investigating, there have been serious shortcomings, and we are generally hearing a lot in the media about the sexual abuse, exploitation of children, even in children's homes. In the gymnastics area, housing homes found almost a complete lack of physical conditions, and the personal conditions were only in a very small part suitable for home creation. It has been found that children are being verbally and physically abused, not primarily by employees, but by children and children. Smoking children, staying on the street, eating problems, lack of numbers, severe contemporary aggression, are the ones that have been established. As shown by the results of the follow-up study in Zalaegerszeg, more such checks would be needed, since it was found during the follow-up checks that errors would be corrected in many cases and that they would try to correct errors. This is very important in protecting the interests of children, so that they are constantly under control throughout the country, and they are able to eliminate all kinds of errors that occur today. Another interesting reference, the child's food normative, which I found rather outrageous, is that in addition to the cost of lunch, 486 forints a day for children to eat four times a day. If this is divided into four meals, it is only more than 120 HUF/dining. We know very well what can be achieved from today's prices. Practically, children can get buttered buns or greasy bread from this money alone, and it is certainly not for their physical advancement or for their vitamin-rich, fruit-green diet, which would otherwise be prescribed. In this regard, too, it would certainly be important to improve, and we hope that there will be some progress in the near future, and that the recommendations made by the Commissioner will be taken into account. Another problem with children's homes is the problem of neighbors. Obviously, this must also be taken into account, since these children's homes are usually located in urban or rural areas. Indeed, the rights of neighbors of such children's homes must be taken into account, who have repeatedly indicated that children are on the streets for eight to nine hours, smoking, gangbanging, cursing, making noise, cursing. This is also due to the lack of workers, and to the fact that wages in this sector are extremely low, and this is why it is not an attractive area for those who would come to work here, to deal with the children's affairs, and so there has been a very serious shortage of workers in this area. Change in this area is also very important. Another big problem is the problem of health care. Here, I would like to draw attention primarily to waiting lists, which narrow down patients' ability to assert their interests in the area of a fundamental right. It is these patients who, in many cases, require relatively urgent care, and in contrast, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] participate in very long, in many cases six-month waiting lists. That should be changed, too. Maybe I'll keep going. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-11-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Ákos Kozma, Szalayné Sándor Erzsébet Deputy Ombudsman Woman! Deputy Ombudsman Gyula Bándi, Professor! Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, B/8769 on the activities of the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in 2019 The Ombudsman's report under number 1 shows in detail the activities of the Ombudsman and his deputies in 2019 and presents in detail the inquiries carried out by the ombudsman's office as well as a mirror to the work carried out by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, reporting on its results and reporting on the challenges of the future. H/11093 on the adoption of the accounts The EESC also supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Ombudsman and his alternates in 2019. The report shows the dynamic development of the Ombudsman's international engagement. I would just like to refer to the fact that new cooperation agreements are being concluded with human rights, contacts with co-institutions dealing with international law protection, access to scientific centres and networks. This growing international role is achieved by the Hungarian ombudsman's office being a national human rights institution with the status of A, since 2014. In 2019 the UN-accredited national human rights institution's status review process was a priority international task. In order to ensure the success of the review procedure, in 2019 an accreditation working group of experts from different disciplines was set up in the Office, led by Professor Gyula Bándi. Ladies and Gentlemen, In September 2015, the 193 Member States of the United Nations, including our country, decided to take joint steps to reduce poverty at global level by 2030, address the challenges of climate change and inequality of chance. To this end, 17 sustainable development goals have been set, ensuring that no one is abandoned. The 17 targets are broken down to 169 tasks and contain nearly 230 indicators that aim to assess and monitor several aspects of social, economic and environmental sustainable development. In the year 2019, the Ombudsman made a major contribution to the performance of these tasks. I also congratulate Mr Kozma Ákos on the fact that in 2019 he was elected not only as an Ombudsman of Hungary but also as a member of the Bureau of the European Ombudsman's Institute. [[10.20]] This Institute plays an important role in the scientific processing of issues related to the protection of human rights and citizens' interests, as well as in the European cooperation of ombudsmen. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2019, the Ombudsman's international professional relations as a national preventive mechanism also developed dynamically. In the field of children's rights, the Ombudsman joined the initiative of UNICEF's Hungarian Committee in 2012 and organised the working day of 20 November 2019 in the spirit of the World Children's Rights Day, accepting UNICEF's young ambassadors in office and issuing a jubilee volume to honour the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Ombudsman also paid particular attention to protecting the rights of vulnerable people, children, people with disabilities, the elderly, patients, and the homeless and other people with existential needs in accordance with the provisions of the law in 2019. In 2019 the Ombudsman carried out a number of on-the-spot visits concerning institutional operations and supply conditions, which concluded with a report. For example, the home in Gymnastics, mentioned by others, or the report presenting the operational problems of Tamás Eszé Children's Home in Budapest. Health in the field of health in 2019 was also the focus of studies on how fundamental rights in health work. For example, it has been examined how fundamental rights apply specifically in relation to the joint placement of the mother and the newborn, or in relation to the child- and parent-friendly functioning of the premature-intensive classes. Ladies and Gentlemen, For the area of nationality of the ombudsman's office, 2019 was a period of reckoning and redesign. In 2019 Erzsébet Szalayné Sándor's Deputy Ombudsman's mandate expired. In recognition of the work of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, Parliament has re-elected him as Deputy Ombudsman. In October 2019, there was an election of national authorities, which meant the simultaneous renewal of the level of representation of the local, regional and national authorities. In the course of this, nearly 2200 municipal and 62 regional minority self-governments could be formed, and all 13 recognized Hungarian nationalities also formed national self-governments. The third outstanding professional challenge of 2019 was to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the national rights law in this respect, which was well-absoluted by the Office, with 27 technical and 31 content proposals for legislative work. Thank you very much. In addition to the above, the Deputy Ombudsman dealt with 409 complaints concerning the area of individual nationality law in 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, The common heritage of the nation is a unique asset that we must protect. With the work of Deputy Ombudsman Gyula Bándi in 2019 he wanted to promote the protection of the common heritage of our Hungarian nation and the right to a healthy environment and physical and mental health. Thank you very much for his work. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Justice Committee of the Parliament, as a committee responsible for the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, discussed and accepted the 2019 report at its meeting on 22 June 2020 and thus submitted to this House the H/11093. Proposal for a Decision No 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the above, the Christian Democrats support B/8769 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2019. H/11093 on the acceptance of the accounts and the acceptance of the accounts This Decision is addressed to the Kingdom of Norway. Please, support me. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-11-04-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga, who is speaking on the stand. We'll wait for the congressman to beam up to the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The report before us is about the activities of the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in 2019 and, as the Commissioner said, this period is primarily related to the Commissioner's activities, since Commissioner Ákos Kozma appointed Commissioner from 26 September 2019. However, in the context of the report, a number of questions were raised or addressed in 2019 to the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which is worth remembering at the hearing of this report, in particular in order to clarify how the Commissioner intends to maintain good practice for 2019 in certain areas, where appropriate. One of these important events in 2019, which I have to mention, was an ombudsman's resolution to protect children during the campaign period. There have been numerous times in a campaign period that some candidates have used children in the campaign as campaign tools, thus violating their human dignity. This involved, where appropriate, either conducting schoolchildren for events, or the candidates shared fruit and other things in schools and kindergartens, and this was presented to the public in a political robe. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies have spoken out against such practices, for which they deserve to be thanked. In particular, after the publication of the Ombudsman's resolution, the Hungarian Socialist Party made use of several submissions during the 2019 campaign periods, which were born to protect children. We have acted against campaign activities in which children have been used. We agreed with the Commissioner that the human dignity of children cannot be limited by using them as virtually a campaign tool, a kind of object. Several cases of child infringements in electoral procedures have been identified by electoral bodies, in particular by the competent courts. The justification for the infringement of the then Fidesz mayor Zsolt Borkai's Győri Courtboard is exemplary, according to which the child should not become an instrument of politics, in order to ensure that the political neutrality of kindergartens and schools is maintained. Unfortunately, not all courts saw the argument of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights so powerful, and at the electoral committee level, violations of children during the campaign period often fall to deaf ears despite the fact that it is very clear that we are facing a systemic problem. The report before us, although referring to the Commissioner's call for children's rights, gives less information about its afterlife. At this point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that even in the 2018 campaign period the National Election Committee has made a reprehensible decision on a number of similar cases, even against the Prime Minister, which was also a decision of the NVB. [[10.30]] That is why it would be welcome for Commissioner to provide information on how he intends to monitor children's participation in the campaign period in the future, if so, by what means. It is also important to know that Commissioner has proposed legislative changes in order to protect children during the election campaign period and that he plans to turn to the Constitutional Court because the rights of children are not sufficiently guaranteed during the election campaign period. As in the past, the MSZP will continue to support the protection of children during the campaign period. A little further away from the campaign period, it is worth drawing attention to another phenomenon: the Commissioner repeatedly refers to the reply to written questions sent by Members of Parliament that no specific complaint has been received by the Commissioner in relation to the specific matters which we have presented. In many cases, Commissioner has informed us that he has conducted an investigation on the grounds of our submission, but the complaint received from the person who is not involved in the specific case has become decisive in several cases. It would be worth considering, in our view, that the questions submitted by its representatives should be treated by the Commissioner as a complaint of general interest and as a complaint of public interest and examined on the basis of them. I would like to draw the Commissioner's attention to the fact that the Supreme Prosecutor's Office has established an established practice of transferring Parliamentary documents in its own course, in many cases assessing our submission as a complaint, in which at least such an investigation is initiated, even if the end of it is not always clear. The next case, which I would like to mention, and it gives the specific topicality of the handling of our submissions, is that at the end of last year we informed the Commissioner about the situation of the Dobian psychiatric system, that sick people are being sent from there, that some have been reportedly directed to homeless shelters, and that they are afraid that they are about to close the institution. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] At that time, Commissioner has indicated that investigations are being carried out, but their results are not known. And in the days it turned out that the Dobian psychiatric system had ceased; according to local residents, all the patients had been sent from the hospital, and the workers had been relocated and transferred. Therefore, it would be critically important for the Commissioner to deal with such matters in a meaningful way and to inform Parliament accordingly. I would also like to mention one more specific issue, another current problem, which, unfortunately, has been on track for a long time, and this concerns airspace noise and the air traffic at Liszt Ferenc Airport. Commissioner and his deputies have drawn attention to the harmful effects of airspace noise, in many cases to the violation of fundamental human rights and to the threat to health. The problem was also dealt with in detail by the MSZP. We have also tabled a proposal aimed at harsh sanctions for aircraft in breach of the rules. The Commissioner pointed out in his report before us that the measures introduced by the Government in this area are insufficient and the level of the fine is insufficient to deter. The problem is the fact that, on the basis of a new bill from the government, the government should no longer consult local authorities on the detailed rules for imposing penalties for non-compliance with noise restrictions. This has the consequence that, in the future, there will be no need to listen to local authorities representing those who suffer the harmful consequences of the noise burden. Commissioner, you will certainly agree with me that excluding local bodies in this form from decision-making is in no way in the interests of residents. In your report, Commissioner, you indicate that state measures, their impact and effectiveness in relation to noise are being monitored. It is important to know that the involvement of local communities in decision-making will be monitored in the future by Commissioner, in particular in order to ensure that those affected by noise can receive real public assistance. Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, I have mentioned a few specific matters from this period, and it may extend a little beyond that which is not specifically and not primarily related to Commissioner's activities, but I would ask you and you to take into account what I have said. I wish you good health for your work, and thank you for listening.
u2020-11-04-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. Did he put it on? [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think that the negotiation of all such accounts here, within the walls of this House, is an opportunity for us to examine, in general, how that institution works, what our attitude to it, what role it plays; it plays the role that it was originally created for, and what we think it should do. And I would like to begin with the discussion of this report, so that we finally have our Ombudsman in fact and his two alternates. I think that this has come about and that it has led to the introduction of this legal institution in Hungary, that as a lawyer to a kind of people, as it is used to be, there must be an institution to which citizens can turn, one of the speakers here has pointed out how important this is in their skill-related matters, of course within certain constraints, and that the Ombudsman, with the office, apparatus, state resources behind it, and obviously with his own expertise, can initiate investigations, examine that question, and give some answer to the citizen's request. Of course, this may lead to rejection or at least not favourable treatment, or at least the citizen will come and get some answer to his problem. And I think it's good, I think it's right, I think it was a good thing to introduce it in Hungary at the time, and I still think it's a very good legal institution. And let me even tell you the personal thing, because of this role, I wanted to be an Ombudsman for a very long time, because I thought that you could do a much more effective job than a Member of Parliament, since you can say more obvious things to citizens' complaints; you can be more direct to this than you often do as Members of Parliament. The report that we have here is a very detailed report on a very large number of topics, which is highly professionally thought-out, and I thank the Ombudsman and his colleagues very much for that. Perhaps, for the sake of the minutes, I always say that I like to discuss such reports as soon as possible after the period under consideration or the reporting period, because if we come to Mr Ombudsman with any good ideas or suggestions now, it is obviously not possible for him to put this into effect already in 2020, so that I can say it, so it is possible in his report on this year next year that we will mention the same critical points, but nevertheless this is a very fair, very good report, I think. I think we also talked at a committee meeting about giving Hungary a very real slice and what country we live in. It is true that in a certain way it concerns a terrible slice, because it concerns very broad topics, and obviously, in this report, we can see problems with the different topics, what is not working or not working as it should. The scope of the topics is shown by the fact that, from child abuse, through the rights of prisoners, through patients' rights, to environmental protection, to discrimination against members of the LGBTQ community, there is a great deal of concern in the report, and obviously the work of the Ombudsman's Office, and many times it is appropriate to do so, not to say: a good solution or a response to documents produced by the operation of the Ombudsman's Office. So what I'm saying is that it is useful, and it is good what happens there. [[10.40]] But let me be a little critical. If I have interpreted the discussion of this report from the outset in a dilating way, then there are some moments that I should mention as criticism, either exceeding or partly exceeding the limits of the report. It's gonna be three parts of this. As one of the criticisms, I think it is important to emphasise and to devote energy to finding answers to the announcement or complaint as soon as possible, so to speak, so that the time spent on the investigation should, if possible, be reduced. There is obviously a reasonable limit to this, so naturally a complicated question cannot be decided in a day, I can readily see that, but it feels that too long is going to pass, on which the Ombudsman responds to a complaint, and in some way the medicine comes to the problem raised by the citizen, on which the matter is no longer so relevant, or at least life has already overridden the situation in many respects. I'll tell you two of those in the last year. The Ombudsman opened an inquiry into the Mátra Power Plant last December, if I recall correctly. We also discussed this at a committee meeting. As I recall, to this day there is no result, while the Mátra Power Plant was sold long ago, it was passed on. One day János Áder announced that he would be eliminated and then took it back, but the point is that a thousand things have already happened. It does not follow that, of course, it will not be possible to say an appropriate thing when the Ombudsman's resolution is born, but this will happen in a very, very long time, compared with the problem being raised, and there will be a lot of new stories by then. It is similar in relation to the segregation of Roma children in Gyöngyöspata in schools, and I believe that the issue of the investigation of compensation granted in January is similar. It's November, as I understand it, and it's not over, or I haven't found any trace of it, but it's been practically all year. Again, I am saying that it is possible that this is a very complicated and demanding matter, only if I can use such advice, I would try to narrow it down or try to reduce the time that passes between the complaint and medicine, let me say so. The second part of my review is related to the individual tests. You must have been informed by civil society organisations, we, and Members of Parliament, have often been contacted in a case where you already have a partnership, or at least there is a connection that in certain investigations, the civil society and the criteria indicated by experts are not reflected in sufficient weight. I'll give you an example to make this clear. It is very, very supportive and should be supported to examine every year the situation of the homeless in this country. This is indeed a serious problem, a current problem, a problem affecting tens of thousands of people, so it is entirely appropriate for the Ombudsman to come back to the subject every year and examine it. But if we read the resolutions well, they will always approach the issue only from the institutions, from the heads of institutions or from the institutions. It has never occurred to me that he has asked homeless people, say the Ombudsman or turned to homeless people, while there are NGOs dealing with homeless people who have recommended this to me that they would be happy to help them to come forward, to hear from the homeless people how and what life was given to them. I have a similar problem with the homeless investigation, for example, that it focuses on Budapest, while two thirds of the homeless live in rural cities, things operate in a completely different system of care, they can often solve the homeless problem of rural cities with worse organisation, but this cannot be published in the report, because it is the institutions in Budapest that the report focuses on. This means that the otherwise very good aim and very welcome examination are also a bit distorted by these kinds of shortcomings, so to speak. My third and most importantly, my politicised type of comment will be that, as a citizen of the people, I would also expect that, perhaps in matters where there is a very certain violation of fundamental rights, or at least a very well-founded suspicion, I will give you an example soon, in some way, the Ombudsman should speak, state that he considers the matter to be so important that he examines it, at least, and what my fellow Member László Varga has said earlier, perhaps he will investigate certain matters on his own, and if this is not allowed by law, he will initiate such a legislative amendment. I'll give you specific examples. In recent months, so much so that almost six months ago, the Fidesz majority of Parliament accepted a certain Article 33, the issue of the name and gender change of transgenders, in which I know that a number of complainants came to you, as Members of Parliament, and I, as well as my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, and I am sure others, and there were signatures in that case, so that you were contacted by the masses of effective citizens. To this day, I do not know, in addition to the written answer to the Wind Bernadett in question, that the office would have said anything in it, had any communication. In such cases, the answer is that the investigation is taking place, so we cannot advance the results of what I explained at the beginning of my speech that I have a problem with time. But I would think that, when it comes to such a situation, I could imagine that the Ombudsman, as a lawyer to the citizens, would speak in this matter, at least to be satisfied if we were to be fair, both sides of the conversation. I would see such a role in the role of the Ombudsman, I confess. This is what the other similar case relates to, to give another example. There has been an atmosphere here for two months now, and the story of the story begins with the story of everyone, but it has actually expanded, and it is allowed that certain politicians and other statements have been made about the members of the LGBTQ community, that is one thing, but here fundamental rights violations can be assumed as when a mayor bans the use of the book, for example, in kindergartens. I'm not a lawyer, but I could tell you that this is a violation of the fundamental rights of learning and teaching enshrined in the Fundamental Law, or at least the subject of the investigation could be a violation of it or not. One word, like a hundred, the third part of this issue, to which I say that I would shift these types of reports and the functioning of the Ombudsman to another, is that it responds better to situations that arise everyday and generate debate and, of course, violate the fundamental rights of one of the social groups. I could imagine that. Let me conclude by saying that, in addition to all these criticisms that I have just mentioned, I would once again stress that this is a very thorough, very detailed report, and that the Ombudsman's office and, of course, its staff seem to spend a great deal of effort going around these matters, and that the reports and resolutions that are being drawn up are indeed professionally sound. Thank you very much for that. I therefore hope that my comments can make this even better, and that next year we can talk about an even better report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-04-16	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Further speeches will follow. First, I would like to address Congresswoman Bősz Anett, from the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ombudsperson, Allow me to thank you for the report, and on behalf of myself as the Hungarian Liberal Party, I share some thoughts with you. I respect and approve that the Commissioner started his speech by expressing thanks to his predecessor, because, as we have heard from opposition colleagues here, he has been in this office since mid-September last year. [[10.50]] By the way, I think that Dr. László Székely had a very nice farewell to Parliament last year's report. And not only as a liberal, but also as a responsible citizen, I must say that this office and your position, Commissioner, is of exceptional importance in an otherwise undamaged rule of law and democracy, even where there is no general violation of the principles of equal dignity and equal treatment, and it is not so typical of everyday life of individual and collective violation. Unfortunately, in recent years in our country, there has been not only a political but also a social operation in which this is not guaranteed, so you have much more attention in this sense. I also think that the work they have done is honorable and honest. We could all live in a happier country if they didn't have 154 pages of accounts, because that would mean that there are fewer violations of the law, the dignity of fewer of our compatriots is being violated either on an individual or on a group level. But unfortunately, we see the opposite, and your report, Commissioner, in this sense, I must say, is also understood as a country report. As you said about children's rights, I was thinking that these ideas could have come from the opposition benches. That is exactly what we are trying to convince the pro-government colleagues and the representatives of the government, which you have been talking about. Among other things, the fact that our education system is discriminatory at a number of points, and not only for pupils with special needs or with mild disabilities, we are talking not only about raising children with severe disabilities and raising their rates for home care, I think this is out of the question. This is perhaps a budgetary issue after we have agreed on the principles, and unfortunately, we are not doing well in these things, or perhaps we are not financially able to raise it, even though those who care for their sick children at home deserve everything. However, I am afraid, Mr Ombudsman, that the members of the most vulnerable social groups will not get to you. I can see from the report and from your exposure that you have received a number of complaints, which have been handled extremely well, but I also see that the social gap has become so great, and this also shows in the exercise of rights in our country today that members of certain social groups do not even get to correct their own violation. They simply get to the point of living that their dignity is damaged every day in a medical clinic, whether their child's dignity is in an educational institution, whether in an office or wherever, there is no official business to be done, but they can no longer take steps to bring justice to them. Once again, I should like to thank you and your colleagues for, in the case of complaints that have come to you, however, trying to take action to the best possible extent. With regard to the joint placement of the mother and child, I would like to express my deep agreement with you, and I would like to point out that your predecessor, who served in this position for the greater part of the year, last year, as allowed by his scope of manoeuvre, spoke out in favour of the independence of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the rights of the LGBTQ community, and may I say that in the case of the most defenseless, as well as the right of premature children to continue to be present with them. This was not clear before in our country, I think it is a big step forward compared to recent years. This is why I say that the ombudsman's report can be seen as a kind of country report, because we can see that it can face medical protocols or customary practices in school and finally bring justice to social groups or to people who may not have been brought to justice. After your entry into office, Commissioner, the Helsinki Committee has prepared a detailed technical material, precisely in December 2019, and has touched on several areas in the letter addressed to you, which you consider to be burning in our country. It also affected areas that Professor Székely had not dealt with, although it would have been good to do so. One example is the fate and treatment of the residents of the Fotian children's home, such as the justice of prisoners and the way in which the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights is elected. On this latter point, the Helsinki Commission has made a very specific proposal to the Commissioner. To the best of my knowledge, you asked the Commissioner to take advantage of his licenses, which the law gave you, to take the initiative for the future, so that we could delegate candidates to the head of the office, one of the last bastions of the rule of law, in the context of a freer application or a major professional debate, and then finally choose an ombudsman. I respectfully ask you that you have found this proposal in your head, or are inclined to use it. For years, the Helsinki Commission has been constructive in its work and the Ombudsman's work, even through resolutions, and one of the main root causes of the letter addressed at the end of last year was a rather sad step for our country. In particular, according to the decision of the Accreditation Sub-Committee of the World Federation of National Human Rights Institutions, and as that decision appeared at that time, it was considered that we should lose the classification of our country as a human rights institution, a category A. For this reason, I think it is very important that, for example, we consider the Helsinki Committee or any civil society organisation wishing to promote enforcement not as some kind of political civil society, but as an organisation following professional guidelines and, by the way, promoting the affairs and legal system of our country as well as its political and social development. That is precisely what I am asking: could the representatives of the Helsinki Committee have discussed the following issues with the Commissioner? I would like to quote from this letter: how it acted against racism and against asylum seekers, against xenophobia against refugees, about its position on the law on organisations supported from abroad, and on the steps it has taken to protect human rights and other civil society organisations, and on the position of the UN Special Reporter on the Status of Patriotics to find that it was reluctant to turn to the Constitutional Court on matters which it considered political. Commissioner, I know that you have served in this position in a quarter of the last year, so in this sense we are really discussing a year in which the Helsinki Committee has raised the shortcomings of László Székely, but not only the continuity of law, but also the fairness of the report requires that we be able to talk about these issues here in front of the House. I respectfully ask the Ombudsman, therefore, that there has been a move forward in this matter and that you and your colleagues have heard the Helsinki Committee's proposal. Finally, because that is what you started with, I would also like to say that I have drawn up this speech in the spirit of honesty and honesty. You have said that you wish to talk about both good and bad things. I would like to conclude by saying this with a positive thought, namely that I think it is very good that one of the first steps of the Ombudsman was that which, by the way, in the Hungarian press, was given great attention by saying that the patient has a right to capture poor hospital conditions in a photograph, and in this sense, justice has been found in your office by those who have turned to you. I think this is very good, and thank you for your work. I trust you will continue to be willing to give justice to our fellow countrymen who have been violated or whose dignity is damaged. [[11.00]] Unfortunately, there are many people in this country, many of them are counting on you, and I wish you all respectfully at the same time that your work can be done independently of other institutions and political expectations, and I wish you good health, especially with regard to the epidemiological situation. I look forward to your reply, and thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-04-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Ritter Imre, Member of the Nationality. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-19	Danke sehr. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank Vera Giricz for expressing the opinion of the national minority committee, to add one or two ideas or to comment. In any country, one of the very good standards of the quality and quality of democracy is how sensitive democracy can be with minorities living there, how tolerant it can be, how understanding it takes into account their needs, because in democracy, in its essence, a minority community can never directly represent its own interests or achieve its goals by voting. This is only possible if the majority society is sufficiently sensitive and understood. At the time, nationalities in Hungary unitedly protested against the abolition of an independent ombudsman's office. This is our opinion today, and we will maintain it in the future, simply because, looking through history and the world, this was the case and today too, I cannot say any country where one or more nationalities, communities in absolute and relative terms can be in a better state, in worse condition, the majority society can better or less well tolerate their needs and goals, their achievement would have been fully satisfied or would have been possible. If someone thinks this is strong, let me mention that just a few weeks ago I was able to spend a day and a half with the President of the Parliament of South Tyrol, who was here at the invitation of the Hungarian Parliament, for about a day and a half, for several hours. I think that there is no need to introduce South Tyrol, the small corner of Europe where they enjoy a level of ethnic autonomy not only in terms of public education, culture, but also in terms of the economy, from tax charging to collection, legislation, legislation, a level of organisation that Europe's ethnic communities, in particular, we can only dream of today in relation to Transylvanian Hungarians in Romania. At the same time, it should be added that in the 1970s and 1980s, they tried to achieve and fight these rights for themselves with explosions, concrete physical struggles. As we have talked with Mr Josef Noggler for several hours, today, it has always been a constant struggle to keep the acquired rights on the one hand and to do the opportunities and goals that have not yet been achieved on the other. I think that this is okay, or even if it is not okay, but it is the law of life, we have to accept it, but as a result, we will always need the ombudsman's office examining nationality rights in every society and its current situation, and, of course, we have to adapt to today's legal order. Last year, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities voted in advance to Dr. Ákos Kozma, we unanimously supported his election, and I am pleased to inform Parliament, that over the past year, we have not been informed, either formally or informally, that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has limited the work of the Deputy Ombudsman and his team in any respect. I thank the Commissioner for this fundamental rights and ask him to continue to do so. Dr. Szalayné dr. Erzsébet Sándor's re-election was not a preliminary vote, but the maximum recognition of the work carried out by him and his team in the previous term, and who knows how divided and in many ways the 13 ethnicities in Hungary have different goals, they have responsibilities, how different methods are in many cases to achieve them, he sees that it is very difficult to meet. I think that the greatest compliment to the last term is that both the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and the Association of National Governments unanimously supported the re-election of the deputy ombusman. It is no secret, even extremely positive, that we regularly conduct personal consultations, where we exchange ideas on strategic issues forward, determine where, at what points the most urgent and important tasks are, where we see political support for progress, what legislative and enforcement issues we can solve together. A very good cooperation has been established that nationalities in Hungary are sending concrete cases to the Ombudsman's Office, where specific resolutions, or where systemic amendments are to be made to specific cases, will be recorded in the reports with comprehensive monitoring, while making proposals for further progress, so that we can move forward effectively with our own parliamentary instruments by discussing them with the Nationality Committee and the IOOOSZ. I think that in recent years there has been such an extremely effective, good cooperation, which is a very important help in improving the situation of nationalities in Hungary. It is no coincidence that, for example, three ombudsman reports will be on the agenda at the committee meeting next week. So on behalf of myself and the committee, I would like to thank the Commissioner for fundamental rights, as well as the Deputy Ombudsman and his entire team, and here I would like to emphasise the term "the team," because I think that all of his colleagues are absolutely committed and do very good professional work, and there has never been a least problem in cooperation. I wish for us and all of us to have the same good cooperation with all ministries, with a wallet. For this I wish you very good health and many common success for the rest. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-20	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Csaba Gyüre, who spoke again. Here you go.
u2020-11-04-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I finished my speech as the lead speaker on waiting lists and outpatient care with the question of the appointment lists, which I think might be a little bit more attention, because it is very important for patients to have the right patient care as soon as possible, and don't give me a god, the problem is that even a patient who has problems with serious pain, if not life-threatening, because obviously, waiting lists will not live, but whether they have such problems, severe pain, difficulty in movement, often have to wait half a year. And I'm not talking about the problems that Covid has caused, which are the newest, but the ones that have been before, and constantly in recent years. [[11.10]] Then, most of all, the questions I wanted to ask the Commissioner. On the one hand, Mr Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, made a proposal on environmental responsibility, which we consider very important that environmental responsibility can properly transfer the awareness of society in Hungary today. In this connection, I have a question as to where this is going, how much the government has taken over this, and how much it will become something that we can communicate to society in the near future. Then the Deputy Commissioner also examined the spatial planning plan for Lake Balaton in particular, and we also consider this to be a very important issue, as we are hearing very bad news about Lake Balaton recently, especially about the investments made by businessmen close to the government. This is where I think primarily about the construction of coastal hotels and residential parks and the elimination of coastal reeds, thus eliminating or restricting water purification at Lake Balaton. As we hear, this will apply to Lake Neusiedl soon. Then the Commissioner also asks for special protection with regard to natural resources, and notes that they have become worse recently. Is there a proposal to the Parliament or the Government to make an improvement in this too? One more thing that I noticed in the report was quite different: the number of complaints rejected without examination in the small figure, which showed this, was very high, since two thirds of the cases, a total of 2949 cases were rejected without examination, while the number of complaints examined was 471, which is only about 10 percent. What is the reason for this large number of rejections? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members, if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I am now asking Commissioner Ákos Kozma to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I'm guessing the location. (To signal:) From above. [[Dr. Ákos Kozma enters the speaker's stand.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank all the ladies and gentlemen of this House for their constructiveness. It was an honor for me first to write to myself that it was purely professional, and now I have modified it to say that it is almost entirely professional debate that has taken place here in Parliament. It has been an honor for me, and I think that this shows the commitment for all of us that these issues should be overtaken and that daily political debates should be overdone. I hope that we will be able to think on both sides in this direction in the future: you, the Commissioner for Citizens, Members and Fundamental Rights. Allow me to address the comments on our 2019 report in my reply. There's been a lot of talk. I think we should stick to the specifics of the 2019 report. I would particularly like to thank the representatives of the committees for their opinions, Mr Vejkey, and Mr President's opinion. I think that we have reviewed the relevant questions in detail before the Judicial Committee, and I have also tried to answer in detail all the questions that have arisen there. I would also like to thank the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary for its opinion. I think that we also tried to give an account of everything that we did and did in 2019 in a very detailed manner in front of the Committee on Nationalities, together with the Deputy Commissioner. Allow me to read here a short quote on the committee of nationalities. I think that everything we Hungarians and all of us think about our nationalities is in this. A quote:. What is one of the issues of nationality policy, we, the 13 nationalities, must be able to put it in a uniform and in a way that clearly shows to the Hungarian Parliament and the government what we are asking for, we expect, and what we can do for the development of Hungary, in order to protect the values that have been created together over the past centuries, in order to further enhance them. I think that everything we think about our nationalities and what they think about our common country is in this. So thank you once again for the support of the Committee on Nationalities. Let me tell you something specific about what has been said. I thank Mr Zoltán Kovács for his comments on behalf of the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your positive words about the expansion of our international relations that I consider very important; we will continue to strive for this in the future. Personally, I am committed to the fact that we can only do this work effectively with international cooperation, together with our international partners. They can count on us in the future, and we are counting on our international partners. I would like to answer Mr Gyüre's thoughts in a few words. We will, of course, continue to have our own ideas and legislative proposals. I would like to thank you specifically for mentioning the extension programme in the prison institutions. I think that this may be one of the most important issues of the past period, although it does not apply to the year 2019, because it has recently been implemented, but, speaking of which, let me also express my joy and appreciation for the fact that there is no prison in Hungary today where saturation would be above 100 percent. In this, I think that Hungary has also made significant progress at international level, so thank you for mentioning this to the Member. The children's institutions. Visiting children's institutions is a matter of paramount importance to me. It is also a little difficult for me to talk about the year 2019, because I was in office for three months in this regard, but if we can go a little beyond this period: in this period, too, I think it is particularly important to visit children's institutions, so in the case of the virus, I was in a number of dozens of children's institutions personally, in the first wave as well as now during the second wave, and what Mr. We will continue with the follow-up and, of course, we will continue to examine the implementation of the checks that we have established in the future. So thank you, Mr President, for these suggestions. On behalf of the KDNP faction, Mr Vejkey also highlighted our international engagement. Thank you for your appreciation, thank you for your congratulations on our membership in the international and European ombudsman institutions. I think that, as I said at the beginning, these are essential things, so the only way to achieve results in this chair is to join forces with our international partners, monitor their signals, and we, and this is very important, to give signals to our international partners. Just give me one parentheses example. Again, it is not the 2019 report, but in this case, international practice has shown that ombudsmanship mainly took place online, through various digital fora. On the other hand, during this period, I also considered it important that I personally take part, of course, in compliance with all regulations, and be there for these visits, and I informed my international partners about this. I have to say, and I will certainly be able to talk more about this next year, but I have to say that we have received serious recognition from our international partners, that we also try to find out personally, through personal impressions and experiences in this situation. So international cooperation is also important in this respect, and so I can give our international partners the results I have personally experienced. Congressman Varga, on behalf of the MSZP fraction, spoke about the issue of children. I would like to say one sentence: the human dignity of children must be protected, it is a basis. We can't let that happen, we won't let that happen, and as long as I fill this position, that won't be a question. So we totally agree on that. Some things have no concessions, no questions asked. I have already mentioned the protection of children's rights as the first and most important issue in relation to my Commissioner's nomination in the context of my Commission's hearing. [[11.20]] I think that in 2019 this issue was highlighted in our operation, and I can tell you so much about this year that it continues. If you look at the reports that have been submitted to our website, you will find many reports on the rights of the child, many of the child-related investigations concerning children's rights are under way. Obviously, we would only like to form an opinion on these issues after an informed and thorough examination, but these issues are my first item on the agenda. He asked two specific questions on the matter of the Doba psychiatry, as he said, which is still under investigation, this is a complicated, difficult matter. As regards Liszt Ferenc Airport, as regards airspace noise, we are also constantly monitoring our findings made here by the Deputy Commissioner, if any developments are to be made in this regard in the future, we will be paying attention to that and, if necessary, we will take the necessary steps. On behalf of Mr Sebian-Petrovsk, on behalf of DK: well, first of all, if I may make such a personal remark, I urge you to become an Ombudsman and try it once. It's not a simple story, but I'm glad you have such ideas. I also had an idea of what this was like, and now I see that the situation is not simple, but in any case there are many opportunities and wide palettes available to the Ombudsman, so that what he experiences and what he sees in the context of fundamental rights protection can also be done. I would also like to say that in Hungary, too, one of the most competent institutions of the European Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is in place, which I think is something that all of us, especially the ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, are proud of, but I am also proud of. And I think that we need to take advantage of this opportunity and exercise all the powers that we have, and therefore the wider range that we have, must be used to protect fundamental rights. Mr President, general points have been raised and answers should be provided as soon as possible. Yeah, that's what I'm working on. It's not a simple question. Well, I gotta tell you, all the questions we've been asked are, uh, how do I put this? it is thorough, or I can say that it requires a very thorough examination of fundamental rights. Therefore, we are faced with complex questions that cannot be answered overnight, but we are also trying to provide meaningful answers to the questions that have been submitted to us as soon as possible, taking into account the human resources at our disposal. The views of civilians. I think that we are putting the right emphasis on listening to the views of civilians, as well as the views of civil society organisations. In any case, if any civil society organisation makes an oral application to me in writing or even in our customer service, I will examine them in any case. There has never been or could never be a case where there is no meaningful response to them sooner or later. So I fully agree with Mr President's point on this point. A fundamental rights inquiry is being carried out in response to the question raised by the Member on transgenders, a fundamental rights investigation is also being carried out in this case, so, given that this does not concern the year 2019, I would like to say no more. With a general lead, I can note that every case that comes to us will go back to us with a meaningful reply as soon as possible. You are very keen on the suggestions made by Congresswoman Anett: firstly, I must say what I have just mentioned. Thank you so much for what you said. I also hope that it is a shorter account, a happier country. I will try to make the 2020 report shorter, and then perhaps we can conclude that everyone is feeling better. [[Anett's shaking his head.]] Although we will probably find it difficult to say this this year, I agree with what the Member said that our report is actually a country report. That's true, though I often say that we're basically like the mechanic they take the wrong cars to. So when you look around, all I see is what kind of sheets the complaints draw, so from this point of view, the country's report is a bit lame, because only those who have complaints, problems, have something to say in terms of public administration or wider state operations. So from that point of view, that's not entirely true. I think that there are fundamentals in agreement with the Congresswoman that obviously cannot be allowed to do so. That's not even a question. She raised the even stronger appearance or publication of the word "civil" - the civil voice - in the course of the Commissioner's operation. I would just like to inform you that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, as the national preventive mechanism, operates a civil consultation body, in which, by the way, the social organisation you mentioned is also a member. I also try to consult the Civil Consultation Panel continuously, and in all respects, for example, to give an example: when selecting detention sites, I ask them for a proposal, and we listen to them, and I also try to take their proposals into account in the field selection. In terms of the Commissioner's choice, let me say one sentence. This institution is not unknown to us in the election of the Vice-President nominated by me and my predecessor last October. It is in the law that the opinion of civilians, that is to say, ethnic authorities, the national minority authorities, is to be heard, so this system is not foreign. One of my three elected officials has this system already in place. I would like to thank Mr Ritter specifically for his words of appreciation, and I think that, and at the beginning, I have already spoken to me about the contribution made by the spoke woman, and I sincerely say this when I am able to attend the meeting of the committee representing the ethnicities in Hungary. I think that this will give us all a great deal of strength, the unity, the common direction that will help us work for our common country. It has always been important to me and will continue to be the support I feel in your sentences. Thank you, Mr President, thank you, Mr President, for your positive comments. I may have already mentioned some of the questions asked at the end by Congressman Gyure. All I can say about these specific issues is that, of course, as in all matters, the Office is continuing to follow up on the issue of environmental responsibility raised by Deputy Commissioner Bándi, Professor. So these issues, which we put forward in whatever form, are constantly being monitored. This is why there are many tasks to be done by the Office, because we are not only dealing with new complaints, but we are constantly trying to monitor the responses to the reports that we have made earlier, and the new practice that will be carried out. So in this respect, I think that, and I thank the Member for his words, the follow-up is ongoing. What we do not yet have an answer on the issues, we do not have a substantive decision yet, and I can promise you that we will draw up our legal position as soon as possible. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Once again, I thank you for the professional and meaningful contributions made in the general debate. And finally, allow me a final thought, my dear Parliament. The ombudsman institution is a fine-tuning of modern rule of law, modern democracy. It is not a classic branch of power, but a new, modern institution of the rule of law, which assumes the high level of functioning of the rule of law. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, Let's be partners. Let's work together. Together, we shall preserve the dignity of the ombudsman's institution at the level where it belongs within a rule of law structure. There are two pillars of this cooperation in my reading. The first is that the Ombudsman's proposals, requests, suggestions and opinions in a modern democracy, such as our modern Hungarian democracy, should be heard. The second pillar of this cooperation is that they do not expect the Ombudsman to resolve daily political issues and debates. Dear Parliament, I trust that next year in my report on the year 2020 I will be able to inform you that, along these principles, by working together, we have succeeded in strengthening the Ombudsman's institution as a modern tool for the protection of fundamental rights in the state, thus also serving the best interests of the Hungarian rule of law and our country. Dear Parliament, Please accept our report for the year 2019. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-04-24	Thank you very much, officer. I would like to ask the President of the Commission, Imre Vejkey, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-25	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much, Mr Ombudsman, for your answers to the questions raised. I believe that here, before Parliament, as well as before the committee, the Ombudsman has answered the questions raised in full. The Ombudsperson's report for 2019 also pointed out in today's parliamentary debate that the Ombudsman and his deputies performed their duties at a high professional level. Today's parliamentary session also proved that not only the fractions of the governing parties supported this report, but also the left-wing factions did not raise any substantive objections to the report. All that remains for me is to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the report and the proposal for a resolution during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the implementation of the 2019 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow up until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/10660. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted its closing accounts for the previous year in accordance with the legal requirements by 31 May. The Committee on Budgets discussed it at its meeting on 20 May and submitted it to the National Assembly, as the NMHH is not entitled to submit its proposals to Parliament separately, as in previous years, through the Committee on Budgets. At the committee meeting, the Authority adopted its accounts by 10 votes to four, with no abstentions. As far as its structure is concerned, unlike before, the proposal now includes five separate budgets. It includes, on the one hand, the closure of the appropriations managed by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Media Council, the Media Council, the closure of the MTVA and the TV Film Mecenation. However, this is only a one-off opportunity for us to discuss five budgets, since the Film Mecenature ended on 1 January 2020 with the succession of the National Film Institute. On the basis of the legislation adopted by the Parliament, NMHH will continue to cover its expenditure from its own revenue and from its budgetary contribution. Such own revenue includes, for example, frequency charges, charges for booking and use of identifiers, fees for official procedures and supervisory fees. These fees are the basis for the administration's management. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, Madam President, she said that the authority defines the individual fee elements in a way that effectively serves the development of communications and related markets in the public interest. Expenditure has been planned with this activity in mind and related professional tasks. It has been found that the operating costs in rem represent a fixed amount year by year, and that investments serve efficient work. I just want to give you the most important corner numbers on the four budgets. The Parliament approved the Authority's budget expenditure and revenue appropriations for 2019 with HUF 34.6 billion. Of this, the spending budget was HUF 33 billion and the budget revenue was HUF 35.8 billion. That's 3.4 percent overachiever. The Media Council's budget expenditure amounted to HUF 607.1 million. The budget revenue was worth HUF 657 million. The appropriations in the management of the Media Council shall include the revenue in respect of MTVA, which has been billed by the Media Council, but permanently. This is the source of the support programme, or the Media mecenation programme, which the Media Council is conducting. This revenue allocation was achieved by HUF 1 billion 733 million and the expenditure allocation was similar to HUF 1 billion 736.2 billion. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In our opinion, the prepared draft discharge law and the nearly 40 pages of justification attached to it provide the Parliament with sufficient detail on the individual budget lines and their fulfilment. At the same time, I would like to note that all five accounts were audited by an independent auditor, and in their report it was found that the accounts submitted provide a real and reliable picture of the management of 2019 and the financial situation. In view of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to negotiate and support the proposed bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to participate in the debate. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Balázs Simon. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As the lead speaker of Fidesz, our group supports the 2019 closing act proposal of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. We support all the ideas, all the numbers, the main amounts, the sub-budget chapters that have just been presented to the House by the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Dr. Lajos Szűcs. We accept both the five budgets and the five budgetary statements and accounts contained in the single budget proposal, i.e. the accounts of the NMHH, the Media Council, the appropriations in the management of the Media Council, the Television Film Programme and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, i.e. MTVA. The question may arise as to how we support it. Our group supports the closing report submitted, which has just been emphasised by Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, on the basis of the fact that the proposed discharge law has been examined, audited by the independent auditor and has made findings that lead us to the clear conclusion that the accounts presented show a real and reliable picture of both the management and the financial situation. [[11.40]] At the same time, I would like to inform my fellow Members that, after the general debate has been concluded, the detailed discussion of the bill will take place at the Cultural Committee's meeting next Tuesday. I would also like to inform you that, when we are discussing these accounts, the President of the Media Authority is present at the meeting of the Cultural Committee every time, as he will be present at the next committee meeting. If my fellow Members have technical questions about closing accounts, they may ask the Cultural Committee to answer them immediately on the spot. Furthermore, at this time and during the previous debates, the representative of the Media Authority is here in the Chamber, and he is monitoring the general debate that is taking place. In conclusion, I reaffirm once again that the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Potocskané Anita Kőrösi. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We discussed this proposal at the Committee on Budgets, and the Vice-President also presented the results of the vote there. Obviously, there is no question that opposition representatives unanimously said no to closing accounts. We said no because what goes on at NMHH and its institutions is quite simply outrageous and disappointing. You say that you support this discharge because it has been audited by independent auditors. We know how this works for you, how you spend your money. And yes, Members will be asked about their professional position at the Committee on Culture. I think that there is also a place here in the general debate to talk about what works at MTVA. We see what works: government propaganda. You spend a hundred billion forints in a public service institution that should be used to provide credible information to the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families. This simply does not happen. We see that the Orbán government cannot deal with crisis management, and the virus has simply defeated Viktor Orbán and his government. Instead, what do we hear on M1 and its co-channels? That there is hurrah-optimism, that everything is fine, that they are handling the crisis, that they are handling the virus, and that the public service activities are carried out on MTVA and in the public media. It's quite simply amazing what you're doing, and you're doing it out of 100 billion forints with a much, much better place in the budget. Let's see, it could be spent on masks, if masking is mandatory; it could be spent on testing to protect people. No, what do you do? By means of news, brainwashing is carried out, and the Hungarian public's obligation to provide information is not authentic. It could be quite simply said, I think it's two hands, but maybe one hand is enough to count the last time an opposition representative visited MTVA. I think you know the answer. You do not allow opinions which are not in line with your position to be expressed. This is exactly what MTVA and the public service media themselves would be one of the key players. But you won't let that happen, because then we'll find out what's going on. But isn't that the only thing that counts as one of those lies how do I say it? tool... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: A bag of potatoes.]] Yeah, a bag of potatoes. This should have been reported in connection with the election in Borsodi. Did you do it? Probably not. And video footage proves it. It's quite simply twisted, silenced... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Last year's budget! Congresswoman, this is last year's budget. The president's ringing the bell.]] With regard to the 2019 budget in the general debate, I think I can say that [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] which relates to the operation of MTVA. Your fellow Member here said that it would be safe to ask professional questions at the Cultural Committee meeting, why not in the general debate that I would criticise their flood of lies in 2019 during the municipal campaign? Why can't I? Oh, now about the election in Borsodi... My fellow Member said it was a bag of potatoes! Everyone's associating with that now. We got there today in Hungary, in 2020 that in every case, the choice of sack potatoes comes to mind. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: No!]] That's exactly why what I'm saying is that you're not telling the truth, you're twisting it, and the public service that's supposed to work here simply isn't working. A hundred billion forints. And that's what happened in 2019. We see you're pumping more money into this system. I asked at the committee's meeting what the next agenda will be spent on between the expenditures in rem. I can even accept that there will be more sporting events next year, if everything is true, and if the virus situation will allow that, and that will require further improvements. I will explain this in more detail than on the next agenda. The point is: In 2019 you used the entire media network to further build and consolidate the Orbán system, and you did so out of 100 billion forints, so that otherwise it could have been a much better place elsewhere, and then we would not be held there that the health system would collapse, that Prime Minister said yesterday that the hospitals would be fully full by mid-December. How are they going to take care of those people? Why do you have to pump these expenses through the media at this level? These are rhetorical questions, I know I won't get an answer to that. And then I'm gonna... [[Nacsa Lawrence points to you.]] Thank you very much, my fellow Member will answer this question about where the money is going. It would be good to know, because it is not where the Hungarian taxpayers are intended, and therefore, quite simply, as I can say here at the committee meeting, that the Jobbik Group will not support this discharge, this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-04-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unlike you, I have watched what the NMHH did in 2019, because this debate is about the 2019 final report. Valuable programs have been launched or conducted. I will also say a few words about this, but let me answer you first, honourable Member. You're here accusing independent auditors of tampering with data. [[Anita Kőrösi: I didn't say that!]] He says we know your methods. That's what he was talking about, independent auditors. Then, if you know something that has not happened in the way it is described in the legislation, then, on the one hand, you should press charges and, on the other hand, do not accuse independent, otherwise well-known companies that are regularly operated by international multi-businesses, research networks, universities with these independent audit firms, you do not accuse them of any kind of fraud, because I think it is unworthy even of you. We have heard little about how the public Alpha News and its associates communicate. I thought you were gonna talk a little bit about how your public media is lying about us every day and how they're blaming us personally, pro-government representatives. Just as the congresswoman did not mention the election in Borsodi, why better activists glued the inscription on potato sacks. It's also a case of videos and photographs. It wasn't about any of this either. And I'll advance the trust, László Varju will definitely talk about it [[Laszlo Varju nods.]] He didn't mention that your mayor would take people in uniform to distribute free newspapers and make freedom of the press impossible, because Ferenc Gyurcsány's bodyguard instructed them to drive out of the underpassers activists who were distributing free newspapers. Nor did you mention this, Congresswoman, not a word that your mayor, in uniform, is making the press products impossible in Budapest. This is freedom of the press in your vocabulary, which is how you interpret freedom of the press. I think it's a shame that we have to face moments like this, photos like this, when Ferenc Gyurcsány's bodyguard surrounds activists with uniformed people who distribute newspapers. But to talk about the report and the year 2019: Lajos Szűcs's report and the figures also show that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority did a very high level of professional work in 2019 and contributed to making work, learning, leisure, information, entertainment and private life more efficient and meaningful for the Hungarian people. [[11.50]] CHAPTER XXI In the 20th century, in the era of innovation and the fourth industrial revolution, infocommunication, fast internet access, the 5G mobile network, public wireless internet access systems have become virtually part of our everyday lives and are constantly becoming part of our daily lives. A country that is lagging behind in the fields of innovation, digitalisation and information communication is constantly losing to its competitors and is being put at a disadvantage in the current digital revolution. Thanks to the steps taken by the NMHH and the Hungarian government, Hungary today places particular emphasis on innovation issues and the expansion of modern infocommunication tools and opportunities available to all. Today, the data, the information, has become almost more valuable than the raw material. Digital technology that knows all about us, monitors our habits and life organisation presents a number of dangers, offers opportunities for many abuses, but at the same time, if we use it responsibly and carefully, it is very useful to have a flow of information about digital education, online language courses or online CREATian courses. This duality needs to be resolved in the education of children to a correct and conscious digital culture. I think that we can all agree that raising children to digital awareness is a key issue that will determine the education of the future, and even the education of the present, in which parents and educators, teachers and teachers have a great and great responsibility. This also has a significant role to play in teaching-education programmes and training launched by the media authority, as well as various services to protect the media security of users, young people and children. Today, even the most caring parent can no longer control the content that their child consumes in the online space. It used to be much simpler, but it is now impossible for parents to control it and protect our children from everything, so it is very important to have a much wider digital education with a completely different perspective in both the family and the school environment. The main role in this is, of course, for the family, but the work of schools and media authorities is also very much needed. Therefore, it is very important to educate children about digital culture in a conscious, family and school context, where we are teaching children responsible media consumption and media awareness from childhood. To help with this goal, NMHH has created a new Internet interface, an information portal for parents on childrenaneten.hu. This page was created to inform parents exactly what pages they visit, what games children play when they hang out on the Internet. About 80 topics can be found, parents can find information on this website, fill out quizzes to test their knowledge. The goal is to encourage parents to start communicating these topics with their children, since the only way to keep them safe is to know the dangers they face. In addition to the unlimited information flow, however, online space poses a number of threats, and users are significantly exposed to online harassment, online fraud or cyber attacks. In this important area, it is up to a national government that supports innovation and is family-friendly at the same time to provide a wide range of opportunities and to protect children, young people, families and the elderly from the dangers of digitalisation. In recent years, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has taken serious steps to protect minors against online harassment and abuse. The NMHH Internet Hotline service is outstanding, which is a legal assistance service operated by NMHH to report illegal or harmful content to minors. With regard to NMHH Hotline's legal aid service, we can say that such a system is needed, as notifications are constantly growing, and such an online legal assistance service is needed. This is largely due to the fact that the NMHH also launched a campaign to promote legal assistance among minors, especially between 11 and 16 years of age, thus increasing the online awareness of young people. Most cases here have been data abuse, large companies have been exposed to different data-gathering persons or organisations, or unauthorised disclosure data abuse has been the subject of most of last year's notifications. I think that such a media campaign for the age of 11-18 and a promotion campaign or an Internet campaign are absolutely necessary, and we will obviously be able to talk about this at next year's budget. Therefore, the NMHH also renewed its partnership with the SOS Children's Village Hungary and continued the joint projects that started. Obviously, after examining the notifications, Internet Hotline and NMHH staff also took the necessary steps. I think we can also see from the priority projects that the NMHH has managed responsibly, that the money has been put in a good place, that it has served media awareness, that it has the protection of minors, that is why the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me a few sentences before I begin today's speech. 64 years ago, this was the very day that Operation Rotating Wind started against Budapest, and the attack drowned the achievements of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. Today, on November 4th, let us remember the heroes who have been able to make the greatest sacrifice for the independence of our country, for the achievement of the freedom we desire. In addition to commemorating the victims on the national day of mourning, we need to remind ourselves that we have to fight for our freedom over and over again. We must remember that we can only be worthy of the sacrifice of Imre Nagy and his associates and of the Hungarian nation if we do not give up the goals for which our ancestors have fought. That's what I wanted to say as the vice-president of the MSZP faction. Then let us move on to the agenda, and I would also like to report to the President that this item and the next item have been consolidated by me, because there is a link between them, so if they would allow me, I would use it. Secondly, I would also like to say that, after the epidemic is getting worse, we have to take very, very good care of each other, and I would like to wish both Minister Judit Varga and Secretary of State Rétvári a better time from here. I think that this is a very, very important thing that this is a very, very difficult time for all of us. And now I'm really getting to the point. One thing is clear from the figures of the 2019 budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Media Council and the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund: that nothing is too expensive for Fidesz to spend on its own propaganda. This is confirmed by the fact that, by mistake, the budget for state propaganda, still called public media, has increased several times since 2010. Every year, the Fidesz government spends more and more public money on public media, while, according to ratings, less and less people watch public television, except for a championship broadcast. In this respect, 2019 is no exception. However, it is quite amazing that the proposal on the budget for the public media for 2021 on today's agenda contains even bigger numbers and even more budget support. If you look at the facts of MTVA in 2019, it becomes obvious that the public media can only spend money, manage well, generate its own resources. Last year, for example, they were able to farm with a shocking amount of money, and the Parliament referred more than HUF 73 billion to their account in the form of a public service contribution, i.e. this was in line with the plans. What did not, on the other hand, develop as planned, is the creation of commercial-type revenues, which somehow does not go with the propaganda door, as there is about 10 percent lag in this area. Nevertheless, the HUF 93 billion budget shows an amazing magnitude, and it wants to increase this gigantic and meaningless expenditure to 118 billion in 2021. Let's see what they've spent all this money on Cunegund Street. A significant part of the amount, some HUF 53.5 billion, went into material expenditure, but the amount of personal payments also increased significantly, so much so that the latter was spent for HUF 17 billion more, that is, the propagandaists of Fidesz are getting paid more and more every year. To tell you the truth, I am curious that this government, which has a public opinion poll on everything, does not dare to ask people whether they agree to spend 100 billion forints of our money on such a public media, especially if next year they want to pour even more into this pointless 100 billion-burning machine, because they do not consult on the need to spend this money on propaganda, or rather on helping the unemployed, health care or education. Are you afraid of people's answers? [[12.00]] I must admit, we were a little naively hoping that, in view of the epidemic and economic difficulties, they would plan a more modest budget for their propaganda machine called the public media. Unfortunately, we were disappointed. You believe that HUF 93,000 million is not enough for MTVA, and you intend to increase it to HUF 118 000 million. The question arose as to why. What we see is that instead of 16 billion last year, they want to spend 20 billion next year on wages and contracts. They want to spend an incredibly, almost incomprehensible amount of money on something; this is HUF 70 billion, while in the year 2019 we managed to solve this problem with a small amount of HUF 53 billion. Why are you trying to raise me on this now? Unfortunately, this bill doesn't give me an answer, and I don't see anyone answering that. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] What we do see, however, is that the Media Authority is preparing for punishments with a great deal of steam, because both rising frequency charges and fines are expected to generate more revenue. It's better to watch out for television channels and radios. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP does not support this mindless and pointless waste of money. We do not support spending more than 100 billion forints of public money in the poor public media of Fidesz's propaganda machine. We do not support the fact that taxpayers' money is used to spread unconceived disinformation reports and reports received from abroad. We do not support the fact that the public media that worked well for 20-30 billion forints in 2010 will receive almost 120 billion forints next year. We are not in favour of wasting people's hard-paid taxes on microscopic television. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-04-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, My compliments to my fellow Members. Vice-President János Latorcai, President-in-Office of the Council, indicated that Zita Gurmai joined up his speech, so that we will not address him the next time, although he may speak freely. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-04-37	Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. I think that it was an idea by a congresswoman that is worth taking into account and combining the budget planning of these two years and the debate that they have because it is closely linked, and all the governing parties are doing is trying to separate it. What's this story about? About spending more than 300 000 million forints in the 2019, 2020 and 2021 budgets for something that no one is interested in. But then they will see it once again as a political judgement, which I was given in response to the Committee on Budgets. But I think that the viewers will judge it, because the ratings of these channels or of this authority, the direct organisations within its funding scope, are far below everything, and it cannot be said at all that it is worth spending so much money on. That's the statement I'd like to make. But if you want another political judgment, I'll tell you one more. The tragedy of November 4th would not have been reported by the TV of power. This TV wouldn't have reported what they were doing in this country. This party state TV, which is run with so much money, is exclusively for your power efforts, and has nothing to do with the intention to inform you, the public interest that the media law would require you to do. This National Media Authority does not comply with the law either in the domestic or European context, as the European Communications Code, which may be formally related to the Authority, does not respect its requirements in substance. For this reason, people who can only watch channels financed in this way and accept the offer to be informed on the basis of the news of the MTI are insufficiently informed. With this budget and the maintenance and operation of this organisation, you do not grant citizens the right to access fair and equal information. Therefore, you are causing Hungary unacceptable crimes by implementing this budget. It is unacceptable for people to be deceived and not to tell the truth about what is happening in this country. The offer is unfair, and let us also remember that their first decisions included ensuring that newspapers and channels for which the MTI provides government news free of charge are provided free of charge. Now everyone knows that this was a huge trap, and some of those who stepped into this trap at least start reading the news based on the news from MTI. At the same time, the option was eliminated and eliminated, excluding those who could obtain funding from public opportunities and advertising opportunities, and thus even in an alternative communication situation. I think it's quite obvious, and for the past ten years, people have had to go through it in these circumstances. There is not much cosmetology on this, honourable Member, if you make gestures about the fact that, recalling the old times, you are running a cultural channel in which many people watch the productions made earlier with joy and respect. This instrument is used to desecrate, in accordance with their own objectives, the responsibility of all Members of Parliament, all parties, as governing parties, for the sole purpose of their power aspirations, to ensure a level playing field. You spend hundreds of billions, but let's be exact, over these three years more than 300 billion HUF in the MTVA building, among other things, in which we can't make it possible for the opposition's parties to speak about us, not just about us. It is unfair what they do, which leads to the absence of freedom of the press in Hungary. You are preventing and limiting this. Even if the congressman looks desperate, he does. [[12.10]] It is unfair to abuse this freedom of the press, which, by the way, leads you to be in power by election fraud, because people are deceived and they do not see the truth, they cannot see the truth that you have produced in this country. I started by spending 300 000 million forints during these three years; 300 000 forints, and I could say that one third of it this year, more than one third of it this year, when you face an epidemic risk where you cannot help 300,000 people in this country to prevent the loss of wages or to survive in some way over water. You're doing all this under these circumstances. That is why I think that the trick that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets was excluded from being the author of this bill, which prevented him from speaking with a pro-government majority, is now not in one case, but, in two cases, proof of fear. They fear and fear that they may otherwise be confronted with the opinion of the author that this draft law in this form is unacceptable. I do not agree with that, and I ask all opponents to do so, but in fact, it should be understood that what they are doing has nothing to do with democracy. It would be time for the media authority to face the fact that, yes, it is his job to ensure a level playing field and equal opportunities for the parliamentary parties in the Hungarian parliament and, by the way, the parties that can participate in democratic public life with support. You can't even live up to that minimum. Because you're obstructing it and making it impossible in this way, that's what keeps you in power at the moment. But I also think that the time will come for people to get rid of this regime. We have long urged, for example, that the Internet be accessible free of charge throughout Hungary. They couldn't solve this, but they could have done it through this system. They left the children and families alone at home in the epidemic situation when they could have helped them. Remember, citizens, 300 billion forints did not spend this 300 billion forints, and another 300 billion forints for Hungary to build a digital utility network. Compared to this, everyone should consider how much they pay each family to have an Internet service anyway! The Democratic Coalition expects the honourable government parties to do their best to allow families to access the Internet, at least during the period of the epidemic, because the use of digital utilities is as important as the minimum water, the minimum electricity that ensures survival for the most deprived. To sum up, I would like to tell you once again that the Fidesz-KDNP party, which has committed the most serious crimes in the area of violations of freedoms, is severely restricting the freedom of the press in Hungary and in relation to European standards. This gross restriction is unacceptable and, as I say, it is unfair to use 300 000 million forints for all of this. Of course, we could go into the details of what this 300,000 million forints means to whom. Will you report to the president your salary of nearly HUF 5 million? That, by the way, a few thousand people here, as the congresswoman mentioned, were only increased by HUF 17 billion in personal expenses? Gentlemen, Look in the mirror. What you're doing is unacceptable. They pay a bounty to keep their mouths shut to serve you by the way, and in the meantime, under the name of the National Media Authority, they abuse the word "speaking national" and otherwise they want to silence the Clubradio. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No, no!]] You are doing this and you are contributing to it! If you wouldn't, if you didn't provide the majority, you wouldn't be able to do that, and you will continue to maintain this threat. Let's just mention a few shows, right, even yesterday? Between two football matches, half-time they produce one-minute shows in which opposition parties are presented in an environment that is definitely bad for them. These are the programmes you produce and the programmes that serve your authority, which, by the way, appear not only on public television, but also on the television of the party state, but also among those who serve you. Honourable Congressman, Do you have any idea how one of the most prestigious sports channels in Hungary, the Spíler, has the rights to broadcast high-rated football matches, how much does MTVA pay to be able to take over its programmes? Honourable Congressman and Mr Vice President, Please inform us and inform us how much you do this for and how much you will have to pay to have this broadcast on your M4 sports channel. It's time to tell the truth. Overall, I must say to you that neither the Hungarian media law, nor the European obligations, which you have repeatedly amended, is being complied with, is being used unfairly, and it is unacceptable that during these years, during the years of the report and the budget, they spend 300 000 million forints on their own mass media of power and party states. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-04-38	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches; first, I give the floor to Mrs Potocsány Kőrösi Anita, the better Member.
u2020-11-04-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Nacsa's exposé, which he has spoken here. You're mixing the season with the guy when he says we're looking at commercial media products to see what they're spending on. Excuse me, we're talking about public service media here. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Commercial!]] In 2019 you applauded nearly HUF 100 billion in government propaganda on public media. We've seen what's happening, and you bring commercial media products here. Excuse me, commercial media products are maintained by the market. [[Nacsa Lawrence laughs.]] So I apologize for standing up for the fact that we do need free expression, freedom of expression and freedom of the press, which you do not provide through public media products. As my fellow opposition Members have said, there is nothing else to do with this whole MTVA, except that you are spending 100 billion forints not on crisis management, but on brainwashing. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-04-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-04-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I also asked for two comments, one of the Members of the Council of Nacsa, to put it this way, was critical of how terrible it is to be fidessed here in this country, because they are actually suppressing you here in the media area. [[12.20]] With regard to opposition media, he spoke of the fact that there are almost a minority of media on the right and serving you, which is simply ridiculous. So it is amazing that they are still able to refer to the power of the media that is oppositional or not sympathetic to you in Hungary, while you have built up a media empire in recent years, and if you had done this with your own entrepreneurial money or with your own salary, then your soul is on it, but you are doing it with public money all the time. With public advertisements, they are able to use not only Hungarian Television, but also other televisions and various organs. So I have to say that when I have listened to you, I have been thinking that the roof of Parliament will not fall upon you, that you have the nerve to say that you are still in a minority situation, and that if someone at last wants to compensate you for this either from the capital or from another part of the capital, you will stand up and say to them with great pride that this is a tragedy that is happening there. That tragedy, please, what you've been doing in the media for the past few years, starting in 2010. That's one of them. I would say to the other Member, Mr Varju: I absolutely agree with what he said, but please do not excuse everyone by paying a price to serve them. No! Some people really do what they do for their job, for their existence, because they have no other option, so they do what they do, they are in a really difficult situation, because they have to make a living as journalists, but believe me, there is no reward among the leaders. They do what they do with faith, consciousness, joy, and do not have to be exonerated in any way, but must be accounted for in that case [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if we can do that. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-11-04-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]]
u2020-11-04-43	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is true that a man can do anything. This is the continuation of our debate yesterday; the others do not understand, but I do not obscure them now. I'm sorry, I'm gonna take this off, 'cause it's not gonna make my voice sound. [[He's taking off the mask.]] I promise I'll be very brief. Indeed, we always discuss this here, when these proposals are introduced in the autumn, that it is a bit difficult for the debate to first look at the proposal on the implementation of the budget for the previous year, and then, as the next item, the draft budget for next year, but that is just the way it is. I have chosen the method in advance to speak only briefly here, and I will speak more in the context of next year's budget. So for the record, I'd just like to record that, obviously, I've never questioned anyone, and I haven't even done that with the President, that everything would be fine in numbers. I don't even think that accounting discipline has been violated. The problem is always that the large amount of public money that the majority of Hungarian taxpayers provide to the public media with the Fideszes-KDNP money is, of course, here we are talking about MTVA, where we see the problems, and then, of course, in a small part, at the Media Council, which is also included in this proposal, that about ninety-two full-tenths of billion forints are spent on how they are used. I think that this is not being used well, because there is no public service going on there, neither at the MTI, nor at the television and radio channels, they are doing state propaganda, and that is why I think that it is not okay that we are spending so much money on Fidesz's state propaganda, so I will not accept the presentation on the implementation of budget 19 for this reason. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2020-11-04-44	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for two minutes.
u2020-11-04-45	Thank you so much for the opportunity. I would like to draw attention once again to one thing, because the whole country sounds like the laugh that appears in the advertisements or programmes of Clubradio when it recalls the words of your Prime Minister that they do not silence anyone who disagrees with you. On this nonsense, lies and outrageous sentences, an outrageous lie is a country name, which the Prime Minister said in Brussels; but perhaps he was in Strasbourg, in Parliament. After everything that they're doing to Clubradio now, or what they want to do, and after the way they've shut down the People's Freedom, the way they've taken over these media, I think you've become a laughing stock, and as a result, you're going to lose your power, because what the Fidesz government has carried through in the media by taking power has gone against everything they call democracy, by the way. Unfortunately, I have to tell you the truth or agree with Mr Attila Mesterházy, because it is not just the News TV people who run around with microphones, they are being chased to put the questions that serve you under people's noses, and you will pay for it, because in this media, you are punishing and rewarding me by giving people money or taking away from them. But one thing is quite certain: freedom of the press is being trampled on by the feet, and the party state that works in Hungary, I hope, will soon cease to exist. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi applauds.]]
u2020-11-04-46	Thank you, Congressman Varju. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2020-11-04-47	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to add another thought to the attention of my fellow Members, namely, that when we were in government earlier, do you know how Magyar Television worked? They looked for a second to give him the same amount of time. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]] the opposition representatives of the time, as well as the pro-government representatives. Now, not just for a second, but for a month, it does not come out that any opposition representative can come in at all. When I became party president in 2010, almost every day my press secretary wrote a letter to the editor of the MTV at that time, his responsible news director, that I would like to go on television and give our opinion on the thoughts of the Prime Minister or some other politician. We were constantly told, undertaken, not that they had not responded, by e-mail, that there was no possibility of this now, because they wanted to give more space so that the government could present its ideas, and they felt, in fact, that there was no need for the opposition to criticize this in the public television programme. Then, when we complained to the authority about this, these complaints were actually rejected. And then we're talking about the current accounts of this authority. Just as the Hungarian Television has been reduced to, it is, unfortunately, a propaganda television, even if there are very serious people with respect for the exception, respectable people in Hungarian Television and everywhere on the radio, but they force a significant part of them to have nothing to do but to serve you and serve your party policy goals in a public television, which, I think, is unprecedented. Perhaps it is only possible in countries that are dictatorships east of us, certainly nowhere to the west, nor very much in the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-04-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2020-11-04-49	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mrs Gurmai Zita's sentences on 4 November and the freedom of the press are still at odds with each other. Of course, on this day it is fitting and welcome to remember the people who sacrificed their lives for Hungarian freedom. [[12.30]] At the same time, what happened on the 50th holiday in Hungary would have been fitting and saving for 16 years, so that the left could at last apologize for the actions that he had done on the 50th anniversary of 1956 as an heir to Hungarian people. This is out of Gurmai Zita's sentence, and I think the left has been in debt to this thing for 14 years. One thing is apparent in this debate on today's legislation is that the bill is a budget closing and you want to see a political pamphlet in this, and I think that is the most important difference. For if you had actually read the bill, for example, Mr László Varju would know exactly how much money there is for these certain royalties on which you have asked questions; you would know exactly how many people in the institutions are always told at the committee meeting and how much budget needs these personal expenses are. And then they would also know that comparing 2010 to 2020 is also pointless because since then... [[Anita Kőrösi: They always do this...]] I said 2010 and 2020, because you said 20 and now 100 billion forints. I'm not stupid, believe me, Congresswoman, you're trying to make fun of me. During the time, look at how many new channels started on television, how many online surfaces started, the technical needs of these had to be settled in every case. And we have also talked about how many billion forints have been paid to Hungarian taxpayers since 2010 due to the irresponsibleness of the previous left-wing governments in the case of a certain headquarters because you wanted to operate this headquarters in a PPP system. Dear Congressman, Mr. President. The trick is that I'm the rapporteur for this committee. It's not a trick. This has been the case since 2010, because it is also a matter of thought in the opposition that, during the 30-year operation of Parliament, the Committee on Budgets has always been an opposition committee, perhaps this is not a novelty for you. But what's new is that if you'd agreed to represent the committee in this proposal, you'd have to give the majority opinion. And in previous years, the Presidents of the Commission prior to you have developed the story that they are not doing so, and therefore the pro-government vice-presidents are the authors of this agenda. So if you think that's a trick, then I think it's an answer to what you said, and obviously to the next agenda. Finally, I would like to say one thing, Congresswoman Potocska, Mr Varju and Mr Mesterházy: the constant threat of threatening people who are currently working on public television, I do not think it is right. Exactly because democracy always has a government to go and another government to come. You must not forget what Mr Mesterházy said: in our time and under our government, these things have happened in the same way! And finally, I don't think the question of closing the Clubradio is appropriate for the 2019 accounts. On the one hand, because no one has closed the Clubradio yet, and on the other hand, this medium can be accused of many things, but not of being too clear about the media market and looking for the truth. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]]
u2020-11-04-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2021 will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/13331. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. [[Lőrinc Nacsa to László Varju, leaving the room:]]
u2020-11-04-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I do not have to say a few things too much, therefore, because in the previous debate it was said why it was the Committee on Budgets that handled this proposal and submitted it, why not, let us say, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who gave me these ideas which were otherwise considered professional. However, it must be noted that the president of the NMHH sent the budget to the Parliament by the deadline of 15 September, as laid down by law, which our committee discussed at its meeting on 19 October, with 10 votes in favour, 4 votes against, without abstention. This proposal lies before you. The total budget of the NMHH budget is expected to be HUF 40.7 billion in 2021, including four large groups. The first is personnel allowances and their contributions and taxes. Thus, the appropriation of personal allowances is HUF 10.8 billion, while the contribution and social contribution tax are included in the plan for HUF 1.9 billion. The proposal calculates a total number of 700 people. The expenditure in rem includes an appropriation of HUF 14.1 billion. Most of this, almost HUF 8 billion of prepaid VAT, which will be paid to the budget. Other operating expenses amount to HUF 10.1 billion. The largest item is operating aid to MTVA with HUF 10 billion. In addition, the planned amount of investment expenditure of HUF 3.9 billion represents a significant part of the smooth process of measuring services, as well as developments for IT purposes. The revenue side is also HUF 40.7 billion, so it is the same as the expenditure side. The main revenues of the NMHH's core activities are charges for frequency use, connection and use of identifiers, supervisory fees, procedural fees and fines collected. The second large group is the budget of the Media Council for 2021. The planned amount to cover the operating costs of the Media Council is HUF 195.8 million. This includes the staff allowances and contributions of the Media Council of five members, as well as the expert frameworks for their professional activities. The Media Council's budget must also show VAT on media market revenues, which must, of course, be paid into the public budget. This amount is HUF 445.2 million, so the budget total is HUF 641 million, both on the revenue and expenditure side. [[12.40]] The third group is appropriations managed by the Media Council. Most of this is the media service fee paid by media service providers, i.e. the total revenue and expenditure of these appropriations is HUF 1.7 billion. Let me last say a few words about the budget of MTVA for 2021. Budget revenues amount to HUF 109.9 billion, and commercial revenues amount to HUF 7.8 billion, thus total planned revenues amount to HUF 117.7 billion. The most significant revenue from the budget is the amount of the public service contribution, which amounts to HUF 97.2 billion. Another part: the average salary of MTVA employees in 2015 was equal to the average salary of the infocommunications sector, but this has already lost quite a lot of value by 2020, so next year it will have a higher funding opportunity to catch up on wages. On the revenue side, commercial revenues are HUF 7.8 billion. Unfortunately, this is a lower amount than in previous years. One of the reasons for this is the epidemic situation and the narrowing of the advertising market. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is worth considering these professional sentences, and on this basis it can be concluded that the bill is well-founded and that the justification is sufficiently detailed, and I therefore propose that it be adopted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-04-52	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Simon Róbert Balázs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-04-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a keynote speaker for the Fidesz Group, we support the draft budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2021 and we find it suitable for a general and detailed debate. As Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, I would like to ask my fellow Members once again, as I did at the previous item, that, when discussing both that and this item on the agenda, if a specific question arises, they should be asked at the next meeting of the Committee on Culture, which will take place next Tuesday, because there the President of the Media Authority and his colleagues will be able and will give a specific professional answer to the issues raised, as in previous years. Unfortunately, I saw it in the previous debate, and I have seen it in a political direction. On media matters, they were criticised by opposition representatives, which, of course, they have the right to do in a democracy. The problem is, rather, that it is not the 2019 discharge with the concrete figures presented, and I am now afraid that my opposition fellow Members will not be talking about the draft budget for 2021 itself. Allow me to draw attention to one more thing. In the draft budget for next year, the budget item of the Television Film Mecenature, which we have discussed earlier, is no longer included. This is because the Mecenatura ended on 1 January 2020 with the succession of the National Film Institute. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that the Fidesz Group supports the proposal that has been tabled. We are also looking forward to the comments and questions on this subject at the Cultural Committee meeting next Tuesday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-04-54	Thank you, Congressman Simon. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-04-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what was said in the previous debate to Vice-President Lajos Szűcs because I did not have the opportunity to do so at the time. He said that 2010 and 2020 on this subject cannot be compared because they are apples and pears. I feel a little bit that there is a double standard in Mr Vice-President's mind, because you always compare 2010 and 2020. I think you can compare it to that, and you can see what it was then. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, said that for seconds it was broken down how much opposition representatives should be allowed access to the public media at MTVA, so that the public's credible information and public service itself can be achieved. Not today. Then you can compare what was, what was not, how much it cost then, and how much it costs now. We're aware of the need for improvements. I said this at the committee meeting that I agree that technology must be developed, because it is now very much needed in the digital world, but not for hundreds of billions! 73 billion! My fellow Member has also told me how much work expenditure will be spent next year. That's a huge amount of money! To list in three sentences what will be acquired, and that there will obviously be major sporting events, so that they can finally stage the Olympics, because it is a heartbeat for all Hungarians to see the Hungarians on the Olympic podiums, but that is not just the story. We all know that you are doing nothing but building an alternative reality, and you are using the Hungarian taxpayers' money to do so. We're talking 100 billion forints. Next year, that's gonna be way over the line. So when we talk about what used to be and what is now on other subjects, it is also right to talk about it in the general debate in particular. These amounts, which will amount to 108 billion next year, if I remember the exact amount, and we are not talking about the election year yet, well, I don't even dare to think about how much you will present here by 2022, when even more propaganda starts, and we will see more one-minute news. Maybe it's gonna be like in soccer games, like in other broadcasts, and they're gonna be doing it in a little bit like that. Well, that's what your public service media is all about today, and that's kind of sad. The fact that you're saying that it's totally okay, we support it, and how good it is, and, uh, well, you should think a little bit deeply about how you use it here for your own purposes, so that this money would be a much bigger and better place, let's say, in crisis management, let's say, so that we don't kill so many people in this coronal virus epidemic. We see that this will not be over for months, and we are talking about the fact that in 2021 you will pour more than HUF 100 billion into the ether, so that credible information will not be provided, you will not disclose information, you will not give any space to opposition representatives to express their views. It's nothing but your media machine, covered with public service glaze. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-04-56	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-04-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last year was no different, we continue the previous debate, obviously the subject is connected, and you have said it several times. I am a little sorry that Congressman Varju told me to say that he did not speak in detail and then went out, and Attila Mesterházy threatened journalists, people working in the media, and then also left the room. I would have been happy to answer them. You're gonna have to clear your case now, because on the one hand, you're gonna say, "Ah, well, no one's looking at the public media, and on the other hand, that it affects the whole country, and that the whole country, I don't know, means brainwashing and you're using words like that. Well, now you decide which one is true. He's wearing a hat. He doesn't have a cap. Attila Mesterházy said how strong the ceiling of Parliament and the support structures are that they will not break. This can be seen from the fact that Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi called the party media of Jobbik a commercial medium. [[12.50]] Then it didn't break, and from here we know for sure that it was built very firmly in the past, because if something is not true, then that is certainly not true. I would like to reject the threat of Attila Mesterházy, who is an existential threat to people working in the media. I think that Congressman Mesterházy doesn't usually stand in the line of Gyurcsányis to threaten people, especially journalists and people working in the media, with their existentiality. Now he's in this line. We thought it was only Bertalan Tóth's own, that he was following Ferenc Gyurcsány in everything, but now we see that this is true of the entire Socialist Party. Ferenc Gyurcsány is the one who regularly threatens right-wing intellectuals with such things, so this is how they imagine democracy, so they imagine the change of government as a threat to the existence of right-wing intellectuals, right-wing media workers or independent media workers. They all talked about freedom of the press. László Varju has the freedom of the press to say here in Parliament that he thinks a journalist is asking him an unpleasant question, then going and asking him about something he doesn't like. Well, László Varju imagines freedom of the press and democracy not to ask a question he doesn't like, don't ask a journalist a question, don't go after it, and don't ask what the journalist, the medium he represents, and its readers are curious about. No one could answer that too... As Attila Mesterházy returned, I thank him for this, so now he will be able to answer me why his mayor and Ferenc Gyurcsány's bodyguard are chasing the underpass workers, the various distributors of the newspaper, out of the underpasses with uniforms and at the request of Gergely Karácsony's bodyguard Ferenc Gyurcsány, into your perception of democracy and the freedom of the press, to have the newspapers cast out and removed from the underpasses by uniformed people. That's what I'd like to ask for an answer to. On the budget for 2021, my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets, spoke several times. But in my previous speech, I mentioned NMHH's hotline legal aid service, its various programs to enhance child protection, digital awareness and media awareness, but I will tell you one more, because you want to take money from this program, of course. This is NMHH's successful project, the Magic Valley Media Education Center. The Művösvölgy media education centers were created by NMHH to support media literacy education for 9-16-year-olds with an experiential program. The first such centre was opened in Budapest in 2014, followed by Debrecen in 2017, and this autumn the third centre was opened in Sopron. That's what I'd like to do in NMHH. With the management of skilled, competent instructors at the Magic Valley Centre, the children who visit them can playfully, experienceably gain knowledge of the media's decision-making situation, and all-day interactive programs for school groups, classes and classes are becoming more popular among the students every year. So far, more than ten thousand students have participated in these employments each year, and obviously we expect this and the allocated resources to increase this number. Many of the materials and educational videos of the Magic Valley Media Education Centre are already available online, and youtubers popular among young people make interesting educational and awareness-raising videos on the subject of the media. For example, they present the practice of recognizing and detecting false news, which, in view of today's political situation and the state of the left, is not an easy task, since every day Jobbik and the other left-wing parties keep spreading false news, spreading false news and creating it. Also mention the activity of the NMHH, the Child Protection Internet, round table. This important task will also be combined and coordinated by the media authority in order to ensure that children's protection in online space is also explicitly given the necessary strength and emphasis. The professional outcome of this TWG will also help to make concrete government decisions on the issue of digital child protection. As digitalisation spreads and online space expands, the media authority is facing more and more new challenges. It is important to enforce the interests and personality rights of users and children as effectively as possible in relation to social media giants. Today, it is even less effective for states to regulate this area. Wherever it is, it may be worthwhile to take joint European action in this area and to cooperate closely with media authorities. You could talk about a number of programs here, all of which you want to deprive the media authority of digital awareness raising, child protection centers, online hotline legal aid services. There may be political debates between us, but I am asking my fellow Members not to withdraw support from programmes of such very important importance and, by the way, to which the bill is also a source, the digital well-being and the digital protection of children, I think they should be given priority. The bill submitted is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-04-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Szabolcs Szabó. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-04-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As I said in my previous comment, I'm speaking a little longer, but I promise I won't be very long, I won't fill the 15 minutes. I have also indicated that, in relation to what the Committee on Budgets has submitted as a proposal, I have always opposed and criticised one element in recent years, this is part of the MTVA. The other four elements I would rather not deal with now, so let's just stick to the budget block of MTVA. This is HUF 117.7 billion in this proposal, which is included in the table. In the beginning, I think it's a bit of a big deal. Even if we do not go back to 2010 or earlier, but even look at the last few years, the proposal on the accounts discussed earlier included 92.7 billion in 2019 and 93.4 in the original budget proposal this year. This has changed, but let's stick to the original, and then next year, when we discuss the closure of the 2020 budget, we see the final amount, because there may still be an increase this year. And this year, it's 117.7 billion. So if we just look at last year, this year and next year, so we look at three years, then the budget of MTVA will grow from 92.7 billion to 117.7 billion. I don't see much of an explanation for what this is all about, because the 92.7 billion was already high. In order to compare the size of this amount at some level, and I do not now come up with the fact that almost eight Groupama Arenas could be built with that kind of money, let us try to look at a similar group of companies from the media world; there is no such thing on the market, of course. We know some big media conglomerates. The kind of complex operation that is typical of MTVA is that there is MTI, it has a large radio network package and a large TV network package, but we know some big companies that are starting to look like this. Now I try not to talk about KESMA, the two most famous are RTL and TV2 Group, TV2 Media Group Zrt. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's commercial!]] and RTL Group. Yeah. You're not listening to me again, Nacha Lawrence. He'll hide in his phone and say something. Yesterday he ran into the fact that I read the opinions of the members of the Academic Workers Forum, and he said that I was saying it, and I drew his attention to the fact that it was academic workers. I've been trying to find something like that in the market, see what's going on. Now, back to the original idea, there are these two big groups. Indeed, in their size, they are large, perhaps even more complex and complex than the public media, but the type of production that is going on there is much more money-intensive, while we are actually talking about radio channels and, let's say, MTI is not mentioned for them, but it is very similar in many ways. [[13.00]] TV2 Media Group Ltd. Its annual turnover was 41.15 billion in the last closed year, it can be checked in Opten, and I earned it there; in the case of the RTL Klub group, this is Magyar RTL Television Zrt., that is the name of this company, HUF 39.98 billion. So, to put it mildly, there seems to be a sense of disproportion that MTVA is not very likely to operate cost-effectively. In the beginning, this is one of my problems, so the budget of MTVA is growing too intensively, and I do not see the justification, so they should be able to solve the greater margin of manoeuvre by increasing efficiency. On the other hand, as I indicated earlier, I have always had a major problem with the budget of MTVA that what they are doing is not a public service. That's what the literature used to call public media. So it is not about providing independent, objective information to the taxpayers of Hungary, because the vast majority of the budget comes from it, for example, the budget planned for next year, of which 117.7 billion will have 8 billion of its own revenue, 7.8 billion if I remember the number correctly, and the other part, which is about 110 billion, is a little less state aid, so the taxpayers' money is in it. So, what I'm thinking is, if he gets that much money from MTVA, he should be doing a real public service, and he's clearly not doing that. Here colleagues have already said that it is enough to reflect on the practice of the last few years, how, let's say, opposition representatives appear or how they do not appear in the public media, what is the situation with civil society organisations, and I could name it for a long time. And it's worth to turn on these televisions and watch them sometimes, I guess, the reason we're in this room is because we watch TV channels that belong to MTVA and listen to radio channels. I even tend to look at all their online surfaces because I think that if the taxpayers are paying for them, then I look at them regularly and listen. I'm not thrilled about what's going on there, but obviously it's part of our job, let's be honest about following the news. So, if they put their hands on their hearts and try to keep a little distance from these shows, then you can see they're incredibly tendentical. So when on MTVA's show, it doesn't matter which show and which host, because I don't want to call the poor person here, the host literally says that, but the Hungarian voters chose such a government in their infinite wisdom..., it goes perfectly away at a Fidesz party event. If at one of their mass events, not during the corona virus epidemic, of course, the Prime Minister or any individual or politician who supports the Prime Minister will give me a similar text, there is nothing wrong with him, if he says so in private televisions and private radios, there is absolutely nothing wrong with him, only when these types of shows, where they speak in this style, are going to be very wrong, and I suppose you can see that. In addition, this is not only about the news channel and the radio channel that basically broadcasts news, but also about this, they even put these little spots in the breaks of football broadcasts, and the news is very tendant there too. It's no coincidence that when I once dared to say that MTVA regularly produces news, fakes and explains, and that I was sued by MTVA, I had to prove in court that I didn't say this on my stomach, but I can prove it. I knew, and it's in the judgment that I've proven that he regularly produces news, forgeries, explains, so I can tell you that he makes news regularly, forgeries, explains. That's the problem with this thing. And the only reason I'm saying this is for you to think about it or go through it sometime, and look a little further away from the daily political practices, because there's going to be such a thing as opposition for the current pro-government representatives. Believe me, if you experience something like this on the other side, I really hope you won't experience this, if it's up to me, I'll do everything I can to make it public service media once there's a change of government, but I'm gonna close this part of it now. So imagine a situation in which you are in opposition, and you see such a public media, public media, you are absolutely right to be outraged. I am going to say in advance that I will be held accountable at the time, and I very much hope that the other opposition Members will be able to take account of this. And really, if it does, I will be the first one to agree with, say, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets at the time, because then, obviously, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets will be the opposition, and I will be the first to stand up, and I will say that Mr Szűcs is right, this is not okay, let's not vote this, let's change it, let's have a proper public service media. By the way, if we could go in this direction someday, then there would really be a more normal public address in many ways in this country. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-04-60	Thank you, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2020-11-04-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for allowing Congressman Nacsa to leave the Chamber sometimes and then to take part in the debate. I am a little concerned about the health of the congressman, because, on the basis of the comment, I am not a doctor, but I tried to look it up on the Internet, there must be symptoms of two diseases: one is phobia, one is a special form of phobia, and the other is amnesia, and one is an amnesia of psychic origin. Therefore, I suggest that if this persists for a long time, it is worth consulting a doctor, and I will tell you how I drew this consistency. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Medical...]] One is that you are like Móricka in a joke, that you always think the same thing about everything, so if anyone says anything, then you think that it can only be because Ferenc Gyurcsány has said something to someone, and everyone has an unwarranted desire to follow Ferenc Gyurcsány's thinking. Imagine, Congressman, that there are cases in which opposition representatives have a similar view of a particular situation. So, so much for the phobia, as far as I can tell, you have Gyurcsány's phobia, which is what I was trying to suggest. The other is amnesia, which is the psychological amnesia, which refers to when you called on me to respond to the mayor's response to the fact that he's dressed in different uniforms, I don't know, his thugs or what he said, his security guards are throwing out the well-meaning people who want to spread a newspaper that can't be spread there. Imagine that security people dressed in such uniforms in Magyar Television were lying on the floor on Congressman László Varju, three or four, trying to throw him out of there! Then there were a few other representatives who were also tried to be thrown away from there, and even imagine that here in Parliament, if a journalist does not want to report from the right place, then the duty of the guard is to enforce the rules created, who are also dressed in uniform, only to say that they are the security guards of László Kövér. So it is simply a matter, Congressman, that if there is a rule, as you recommend to everyone, then it must be respected, and it must be respected, even if they are the people who spread the newspaper for your benefit, and even if, say, opposition representatives or journalists here in Parliament. And even if we don't agree with that rule, it's worth following the laws, because if we don't comply... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Closed session...]] Congressman, press a button and then you tell me what you think, and I didn't yell stupid things at you when you were talking, and I had a little bit of a thing for you, so I pushed a button. So that's the other reason I'd say you have amnesia. [[13.10]] I have one more question, because he often said that we are existentially threatening journalists or I don't know who they are. No one is threatening anyone, we simply say that those who were unable to comply with professional standards and who represented party political interests are reasonable, if there is another government, then that party political interest should no longer be represented there. Imagine this, for example, you use this very regularly when you are on the government. Thousands of people were fired from public administration. Similarly, hundreds of people were expelled from MTVA, for example; only one leader was not held at the news directorship, for example, who did their work in an excellent quality that was technically acceptable during the previous period. So you're always gonna have to count on someone else that you haven't done yet. I see you've gone deep enough in this one. They not only rescued and fired political appointees, Deputy State Secretarys, State Secretarys, but they intervened much deeper into the Hungarian administration when they were put on the government in 2010; they even filed criminal charges against people, they raped professionals, and there was no result after that, because they were exonerated by the court. But it was capable of making their lives miserable or ruined, if necessary, which was not a practice before, and was not an example, but you have introduced this example. I could quote what your prime minister has to say to you, perhaps Lőrinc Nacsa doesn't have a problem with that. I've always been told by the Prime Minister that I've been paying close attention to him, that he's like a god to God. And then we don't have to make any more of this a problem, because all we've done is quote what your prime minister set you up as a principle in the story. So you don't have to be so sad and so upset about these stories. Yeah, yeah, I guess that's when I answered the questions you raised here, and maybe that's how we fixed up what's worth counting for you and what's not worth counting. Just before the criticism is repeated that opposition representatives are not talking about the particular proposal, please tell Congressman Nacsa to talk about the proposal and then I will not have to make such comments. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-04-62	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I now give the floor to Commission Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, who wishes to respond as rapporteur to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-11-04-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The mood of this proposal was a little better than the previous one. I would like to say to Mr Szabolcs Szabó that you live in an idealistic world. This week, when Zsófia Koncz took an oath, I remembered the same story from 19.5 years ago, when I came here to Parliament in 2001 during an interim election, when a report about me was made on the night of the election, and I saw it, because I said the sentences I said, and then I went home at night and watched the television show that was made of this report. I called the reporter as an idealist at the time and asked him how this could be done. Then the reporter said to me, "Lajos, be glad, because that wasn't the request, they asked for a much rougher one." This happened in 2001, and it probably wouldn't happen now, so we could subpoena it from our memory. And while we're here, I could tell Congressman Mesterházy that collective memory is not a problem if we bring it here: in 2002, Mária Berkecz, I don't know, remember, you may have to remember, he was the head of the Millenary, who had a body cavity examination; with a leader in the Millenary procedures. Well, I wouldn't say so much as you do, because, indeed, as God gives you, you're going to be like God, dear congressman. The other is what Congressman Nacsa said. I think we should read some news from the days. It was the Budapest Government Office that initiated legal proceedings for free distribution of press products in the public area. I think that's what you might call freedom of the press. How could Samizdatians today distribute their samizdats in the underpasses? Unless, as the mayor asks, a press product can be distributed free of charge if, on at least four pages, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó accepted and asked for by the capital! news is coming out. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] It's freedom of the press. It's totally okay, right? And I think that this is what this is about, and we would rather have talked about what the law actually contains, that next year, on the one hand, it is expected to be possible to manage a five-year lag financially with those who work there, and the next year, not only for sporting events, but also for technical developments required by sporting events. If that was the case, I think that would have made a lot more sense. However, I thank everyone for their contributions and I ask Parliament to adopt the bill before us. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-04-64	Thank you very much for Lajos Szűcs' debate closing. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc reporting in order of business? [[For signal:]] I give you the floor.
u2020-11-04-65	Thank you very much. I only asked for the floor because I don't think Attila Mesterházy should joke about diseases. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] I don't think, when tens of thousands of people in a country are suffering from the diseases you've listed and used here as a despicable political attack, I don't think it's... I like hard arguments, and I also like political give-and-takes in this horseshoe, but making jokes with sick people, I think it's shameless, and it doesn't belong here in Parliament. That's another... now I don't know where the MSZP can be sunk, but you managed to do it again with this comment. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-04-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic on the publication of the Agreement between Hungary on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and evasion in the field of income taxes until closure. Government referral T/13468. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Norbert Izer, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-11-04-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The establishment of an agreement with the Kyrgyz Republic on the avoidance of double taxation on income taxes and the prevention of circumvention of taxation is set out in Annex 97/2016. The mandate was given by Prime Minister's Decision No. The Agreement was signed in Budapest on 29 September 2020. On the Hungarian side, the signing of the agreement and the submission of the agreement to the Parliament as a bill was published in the 208th issue of the Hungarian Gazette in 1587-2020. It was made possible by a government decision. The main objective of the agreement in the bill, signed with the Kyrgyz Republic, is to avoid double taxation in the field of income taxes and, together with that, to make taxation predictable in bilateral relations. [[13.20]] The importance of the agreement is to exclude double taxation of incomes of individuals or businesses by determining the scope of taxation of the individual types of income, such as income from business, income from employment, dividends, interest, pension-type income. The Convention allows for a reciprocal conciliation procedure for the purpose of resolving possible tax disputes where taxation does not comply with the Agreement. It also provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with the possibility of using full tax exchange in accordance with current international standards. In terms of content, the Convention complies with international practices, the OECD Model Convention on Income and Property Taxation and the principles and rules adopted in its commentary. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On the basis of what has been said, I ask that the bill between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic on the avoidance of double taxation and the publication of an agreement on the prevention of tax evasion and evasion in the field of income taxes be supported and adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-04-68	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-04-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In recent years, the role of the East in the world economy has been clearly strengthened. Recently, the European Union has also adopted a specific strategy to enhance cooperation with the region. In view of the results of the last period, we can say that the strategy of the Hungarian government's eastern opening has fulfilled its expectations. In the last ten years, the country's exports to the east have increased by 22 percent, with 60 percent of the investments coming to Hungary from the East last year, and 40 percent of the newly created jobs linked to them. It is mentioned here that in Kyrgyzstan we managed to expand Hungarian exports by 7 percent in the first half of 2020. It is undisputed that Central Asian countries are showing a very rapid rate of growth. Our bilateral relations with the countries of the region are balanced, and this can bring many benefits to many Hungarian companies. The corona virus epidemic is irreparably transforming the world economy's known system, and in this new world, Hungarian businesses can open up to unknown opportunities. The goal is to win this unprecedented crisis. The bill before us, as well as the Hungarian-Cyrgyz investment protection agreement signed at the same time at the end of September, can be a useful opportunity for us. These provide the legal background for the appearance of Hungarian companies in Kyrgyzstan. This agreement on double taxation makes the operation of firms in the territory of the other State more secure and predictable. These agreements provide a good background for Hungary to be the first of the Member States of the European Union to enter into a strategic partnership with Kyrgyzstan. The Fidesz parliamentary group therefore supports the adoption of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-04-70	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-04-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Each international convention supporting tax evasion and, by the way, the aim is to avoid double taxation, to be supported, and obviously we will do the same. We believe that the innumerable agreements that have already been reached with different countries on this subject... now it is up to the Kyrgyz Republic to conclude this agreement with them, so that companies and other organisations that will fall within the scope of this Convention in terms of income tax can benefit from it, both they and Hungary. So, of course, the Jobbik Group supports this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-04-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-04-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has chosen to achieve the highest degree of national independence and representation of Hungarian interests, both in terms of reducing the foreign currency exposure of public debt and in terms of the recovery of companies and utilities of national strategic importance, as well as in terms of diversifying our energy and trade relations. A successful example of the diversification of our trade relations, of the Hungarian economy, is the Eastern opening policy, which is well demonstrated by the fact that most of the investments in last year's economic record year came from Germany for the first time, not from South Korea, after many years. The utopian theory that Europe itself is an industrial innovation power has long been decided. Today, the latest technology, capital from the east is as much as from the west, so there is huge competition. Hungarian foreign economic policy has achieved major successes and results in the Far Eastern regions in recent years, which has also contributed to the stability of the Hungarian economy. Now, in the next step, it is time to build mutually beneficial and beneficial economic and trade relations with the countries of the Central Asian region and the Turk Council. In fact, the countries of the Central Asian region have become independent countries since the break-up of the Soviet Union since 1990, and many today are able to produce dynamic economic growth. The Kyrgyz Republic is also a key country in Central Asia, since Kyrgyzstan can be an excellent starting point for Hungarian companies in the region and for Hungarian exports. The growing trade relations with Kyrgyzstan are characterised by the fact that during the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic, Hungary's exports to Kyrgyzstan were expanded by 7 percent in the first half of 2020. It can therefore be said that the relations between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan have never been as close as they are now. All conditions and opportunities were given to establish close cooperation between Hungarian and Kyrgyzstan companies and to successfully expand Hungarian companies in Kyrgyzstan and through it in the Central Asian region. The bill before us will also help Hungarian investors and Hungarian companies to operate in Kyrgyzstan, as well as the development of bilateral trade relations through proper legal regulation of the economic environment, so that predictable, safe, transparent and legally arranged relations can be expected. By adopting the Double Taxation Agreement by law, companies will become more secure and predictable in the territory of the other State and prevent tax evasion and avoidance. The dynamic expansion of bilateral trade relations and the investments of Hungarian companies are also supported by the creation of a €50 million Kyrgyzstan-Hungarian investment fund, as well as by the Hungarian embassy opened in Biskek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan. The foreign economic portfolio is also working with great forces to establish direct air connections between Budapest-Biskek. Of course, this will seem feasible when air transport returns. The increase in bilateral relations is supported by the fact that there are multiple over-subscriptions among Georgian young people for higher education studies in Hungary, and therefore Hungary will increase the 75-person scholarship framework in the future. The adoption of the bill before us is therefore an important step in the dynamic development of Hungarian-Cyrgyz relations, but the real breakthrough would be if the European Union finally signed a partnership and cooperation agreement with Kyrgyzstan, which has been under negotiation for a long time. On the Hungarian side, we are pushing for this, and almost the credibility of the European Union is questioning the fact that it is unfairly stalling against the partner country for a long time, completely unnecessary. According to what was said, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-04-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-04-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You see, Congressman Nacsa, there are areas where we agree. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this presentation. [[13.30]] I would like to add so much to the previous debate that you are a prepared, intelligent Member and you know and understand the irony. So I wasn't judging patients, I was judging what you said, and I think what you said made that very clear to you. You're not that sensitive, you're more of a political critic. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán and Lőrinc Nacs applaud.]]
u2020-11-04-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Secretary of State Izer Norbert, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, It follows a joint general debate on the legal status of the National Tax and Customs Office staff and on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the National Tax and Customs Office Staff Act until closure. Government referrals T/13471. and T/13467. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the bill.
u2020-11-04-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The aim of the bill is to put the status of employees of the National Tax and Customs Office on a new basis. With regard to the NAV, it creates a single new service relationship, tax and customs, independent of other legal status laws. This legal relationship applies both to those currently in professional service and to those in government service, but taking into account the necessary differences. The bill clearly distinguishes the entire population of the NAV from other public sector status standards and also separates the regulation on NAV employees from these background legislation. The bill thus completes the full integration of the NAV legal predecessor's organisations in the personal status beyond organisational and functional mergers. The state tax authority plays a special role in the Hungarian government administration, with a wide range of tasks ranging from taxation tasks to customs duties to enforcement and investigative tasks. In carrying out these activities, NAV also carries out criminal, police and police activities in addition to the classic, administrative and control type of official activity. As a result, the organization's personnel are also extremely heterogeneous. There are civil government officials, government officials, employees and professional finance officers in the staff of the NAV. As a result, the status of employees is currently regulated by three laws, including four laws. This situation, which is difficult to understand in many cases, involving the need for continuous alignment with the change of individual laws, is removed by creating a legal relationship exclusively with the staff of the NAV. In addition to creating a uniform legal relationship only for the NAV employees, the basic principle of the bill is to review, reduce the number of jobs, clean up the profile of tasks and assign rights and obligations to job-related tasks. In this context, the functions and functions of the current accounting staff will be reviewed in order to ensure that only the actual staff required to carry out uniforms and arms on a daily basis carry out tasks that explicitly justify the existence of actual status as an administrator. The draft law therefore lays down additional liabilities related to the use of weapons and coercive assets for a well-defined and detailed set of staff within the accounting officer's staff and provides for a certain amount of additional benefits to compensate for them. At the same time, it is, of course, inevitable that the actual status of an administrator in a position of officials, i.e. not having an actual armed service, should be facilitated in a technical sense in other positions of a different nature and with other responsibilities. In such a case, the obligation to bear arms and coercive instruments and to take action shall cease, but the essential elements of the status of the finance officer of the stock, such as the retention of uniform and rank, the promotion of rank, shall remain unchanged. With regard to the system of advancement, the aim of the bill is to modernise it while maintaining a planned and foreseeable life-span. It is therefore appropriate to resolve the fully tied system with the possibility of performance-based pay, by incorporating certain elements of wage-mass management in order to keep the organisation's expertise in particular areas of the organisation very specific and marketable in the competitive sector. Dear Parliament, The bill also simplifies the salary system by further reducing the role of regular allowances, including the inclusion of language allowances in the salary. The role of the job, formerly known as the public service supplement, is significantly altered. The purpose of the revision of the job bonus scheme is to ensure that only those stakeholders who carry out their work under more burdensome conditions involving several risk factors for all NAV activities are provided with a job bonus. In order to maintain the life-form of the planned advancement, the bill will continue to maintain the legal institution of the time-limit adjusted to the length of the service. In order to eliminate certain inconsistencies in the current legislation and to simplify the salary system, the number of grades and the number of payments will also be significantly reduced. In addition, there will be a substantial change in the salary system in which the institution of the compensation of salaries based on benchmarking will appear. The bill also eliminates the calculation of salaries with multipliers attached to the civil servants' salary base. Accordingly, the salary is determined by moving along the classification category and duty time in a band expressed in HUF, which creates the possibility of performance-based individual differentiation. The bill is also in line with the draft law on government personal decision support. Honourable Members, In the context of the bill governing the status of NAV staff, the proposed amendment of 69 laws is proposed mainly with text changes aimed at introducing a tax and customs service, in order to incorporate the legislation into the legal system. The proposals submitted therefore represent a significant step in a modern, XXI. The organizational integration of the Tax and Financial Control Office and the National Command of the Customs and Finance Office started nearly ten years ago will be closed to the establishment of a tax office in the 20th century and by standardising the status of staff. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-78	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-04-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2011, an organizational integration started with the establishment and adoption of the National Tax and Customs Office Act, whereby the tax office and the customs authorities were organised. This led to the establishment of a special law enforcement and classic authority organisation. The T/13471. The purpose of this bill is to put the status of employees of the National Tax and Customs Office on a new basis, thus completing the integration started in 2011. In the past, the status of employees followed the specific nature of the NAV's tasks. Thus, the NAV staff is currently predominantly composed of government officials and, to a lesser extent, professional finance officers, administrators and employees. As regards government officials and administrative staff, the Public Service Officers Act provides the basis for legal status, but as regards finance officers, it is the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. The NAV-tv. Sets out, to a large extent, the provisions of the above-mentioned legislation concerning the NAV stock, together with a number of derogations and a list of provisions which would otherwise not apply to NAV holdings. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft submitted is therefore integration with regard to the status of persons which closes organisational integration. What we need to see is that we have a new status law before us, which clearly and uniformly seeks to distinguish the entire population of the NAV from the public sector's standards governing other statuses, while at the same time removing the NAV employees from these background legislation. I think we all know that the NAV's task system is on an extremely wide spectrum, because, in addition to administrative and control tasks, the organisation also carries out criminal and law enforcement tasks. [[13.40]] In view of the fact that the integration of two former organisations has led to the current situation, it could easily have been possible that, although with different rights and obligations, the same tasks could have been carried out by government officials and finance officers. In order to resolve this problem, the bill lays down additional liabilities related to the use of weapons and coercive devices for a well-defined group of staff within the accounting staff and for their job detail, and a certain amount of additional benefits to compensate for them. Dear House, A very important aspect of the draft law is the correction of the salary system. On the one hand, the aim remains to maintain the vitality of the current system of advancement, but on the other hand, it is justified to resolve the fully tied system. As I mentioned earlier, the range of tasks performed by the NAV is on a very wide scale, which, in addition to the high level of expertise, requires the latest, most market-capable skills and knowledge. It is therefore necessary to establish a system of salaries which constitutes a transition between professional careers maintaining and compensating for the life of the service and market conditions. Mr Secretary of State explained in detail, so I would just like to point out that a number of provisions of the bill also serve to create the possibility of performance-based pay. T/13467. The proposal for a law, tabled in the Official Journal of the European Union, envisages the amendment of almost 69 other laws, as the Secretary of State has said, in order to incorporate into the legal system the new tax and customs service to be regulated. It is therefore also appropriate to amend a number of laws containing compliance, conflict of interest or other provisions concerning the staff of the NAV or the service of the staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of increasing the word further, so we can see that the bill creates an independent, uniform new service relationship for the NAV, independent of other legal status, while at the same time completing the full integration of the legal predecessors of the NAV beyond the organisational and functional merger. In view of what has been said, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Charles Becsó. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-04-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The change in the NAV Act has been heard for months, and the two laws before us, which we are now debating in a joint general debate, put a new form of legal status on the staff of the NAV, and in discussing this, we have already heard from you in the Expo about the changes that will be made. I would like to leave this to the end of my speech, and I would like to talk about two other institutions, which I believe to be a subject of concern and an important subject in this debate. On the one hand, the fact that new tasks will come to the tax authority, and this is the transfer of the tasks and administrative burden of the car tax away from the municipalities to the tax authority of the State. In the past and in the budget itself, we have already said that we did not agree with my fellow opposition Members that, for this year, the temporary abstraction of motor vehicle tax for 2020 has practically been definitively withdrawn. This, which is already included in the tax salad law, is that the administrative burden will be borne by the state tax authority, we see that it has made final the centralisation of the tax on motor vehicles in the municipalities so far. Quite simply, we believe that this leads to the impossibility of local authorities, but not taking note of this decision, we see that they are at least concerned with not leaving the administrative burden with the municipalities. So it will be up to the state tax authority and thus the personnel there to channel 100 percent of the vehicle tax into the central budget. I will ask you, by the way, that the local roads will be renovated and the abrasions improved there and the staining of the road signs will be provided by the municipalities. We know the answer to this question:, Magyar vállácsú, program, applications, and then you will receive money, but there are also conditions, so I could bring the whole car tax issue here now, I think we have dealt with this several times. So this is one of the NAV tasks for which obviously the staff will have to be provided by the state tax authority. The other one, which was also not mentioned, is the creation of a committee that I very much welcome. This is the Committee on Sustainable Economic Whitening. The fight against the black economy is very important, and we have never debated it, and I have always said that I consider it important to whiten the economy and the measures that have been taken in this respect. I could list the online cash register, online invoicing, or the specific taxes on small-tax companies. I would now like to ask the Secretary of State that they would still insist on paying 40 per cent tax over the annual income of three million forints. Mr. Secretary of State nods with a binding attitude and insists. In recent years, the kata has served as a point of whitening, and I fully agreed with it: with favorable taxation, we should really help the small ones, as much as possible in the family register, because we know that this tax method applies mostly to these one-man businesses, individual businesses, obviously it can also be used by deposit companies, we know. If this committee stands up now, then I ask you, if the cataclysm defines passages, when the tax authority will reclassify that activity to work, and now there will be a body to do so, then why don't you use this to implement the goal of exposing and punishing the jobs that I otherwise support and converting into work relations. No, now your collective is punishing everyone, all of them, hundreds of thousands of businesses, by imposing a 40 percent special tax on them. I myself tabled an amendment to the tax law debate, in which I respectfully ask that these three million be raised to at least six million forints, if not abolished. I mean, you're setting up a committee that could be responsible for that, and that could be a task for him. There can be no more important targets than the whitening of the economy. By the way, the system is working well, and I told you that, because if something works right, I tell you that too. We know that the VAT collection and payment is increasing, the VAT is falling, so this is a very good measure, but I maintain that this three million threshold will push some of the VAT back into the grey and black zone. It can't be in your best interest. There will be this committee responsible for sustainable economic whitening, which could carry out what you have not been doing in years. I tried to track the number of procedures in the last few years, when the cataclysms were examined in the direction of employment or not, since there is a million forints to be reported to both the paying agent and the entrepreneur, if he had made so much income from one place, it would have been possible to go after this. So you don't have to bring in this 40-percent special tax in order to discover this otherwise, I'm telling you, supported by me, so that we can uncover and uncover the covert employment. So I very much hope that Mr Secretary of State will answer that question, what this committee will do, which areas will be checked and what is expected, and there is hope that at least this threshold will be raised by the 40 per cent special tax. [[13.50]] And then what a significant part of the legislation is about, I would also like to say a few sentences. This is going to be a new service at the National Tax and Customs Office. This merger started a long time ago when the customs office and the state tax administration were effectively integrated into a large organization, this is the last step you have indicated; although we know how it usually happens, that there are always steps after the last one. What is apparent from the legislation is that their legal relationship, the bonus system, the salary system, the status of the finance officers will change significantly and eliminate the differences that have otherwise existed in other public service relations. I think that the new relationship of personnel... is that it was necessary or not necessary, so I think that the finance officers and the NAV staff have a private opinion on this. I hope that this measure, which you will certainly adopt, will result in the more effective work of the NAV staff, because, of course, it is in the legislation, in the draft legislation, that a salary table based on a performance assessment will also be introduced. So, yes, the lesson is given, and thousands of NAVs are going to tell you that, and you're going to say value judgment that this change was necessary or not. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-11-04-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-04-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The National Tax and Customs Office, today's organization of the NAV, was established in 2011 from the integration of the former tax office and the Customs and Finance Office. The period since then shows that the structure and operational form of the NAV have proved successful. In the last nine years, tax revenues from the central budget have been continuously increasing while the government has implemented a significant tax reduction for workers, families and businesses, as well as the dynamic expansion of the Hungarian economy over the past few years as well as the whitening of the economy and the effective work of the NAV. Here I would also like to thank, through the Secretary of State, all NAV employees who are involved in this hard and everyday work. The NAV is a central government administration body, but can be considered as a special category as it performs both classic authority tasks and law enforcement tasks. The personnel of the NAV are therefore complex, including finance officers, government officials and government administrators who are employed by the NAV in a professional service. The State Secretary also spoke about the actual staff of the NAV, and said that several laws regulate the relationship between the employees of the NAV, such as the 2010 CXXII of the National Tax and Customs Office. Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration Act XLII of 2015 on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Law and, in the case of a smaller number of NAV employees, even the Labour Code. It should be noted that in the latter case less than 300 workers employed by the NAV are not affected by the current bill. The status of the NAV staff is therefore currently governed by three, if you like, four laws, at least two laws apply to each person. The objective of the bill before us is to make it possible for government officials, government administrators and finance managers employed by the NAV to have the same relationship with the NAV, thus eliminating the duality on the basis of which it is possible to establish two different relationships with the same body. Since the establishment of the NAV in 2011, in the first years, there has been a serious wage tension between the government officials of the IRS and the finance officers each year. This situation was corrected by the 2016 amendment of the law, which brought about a fundamental change in the salary and promotion system of the employees of the Tax and Customs Office. The common career model introduced in 2016 and the competence-based salary table made it possible, inter alia, to arrange the wage tension between government officials in the NAV and finance officers. Different degrees of competence have been created within the pay table, as well as public service allowances and additional service time allowances have been introduced. At the same time NAV employees received a 30 percent wage increase from 1 July 2016, followed by a 5 percent wage increase from 1 January 2017 and a further 15 percent wage increase from 1 January 2018. At the same time, it is justified to establish a new, independent, uniform legal status to address professional and potential wage tensions, create more favourable conditions and more competitive salaries for all NAV employees, estimate, evaluate and recognise quality work, provide predictable, stable opportunities for improvement and reward the number of years spent with the organisation. Accordingly, in the bill we are discussing here, the system of salaries and advances is designed to create a more sustainable system of salaries and advances, to provide an opportunity for performance-based pay, and to ensure that no one is worse than the current situation, but only in a more favourable situation. It is important to note that the current salary system is still a positive career thanks to the 2016 career model and wage increases, and is currently specifically designed for the NAV, so there is no need for a complete restructuring. At the same time, it has become necessary to correct the salary system in order to eliminate or reduce practical anomalies that have occurred since the introduction of a career. The new salary system places the same complexity of functions in the same category, thus creating the possibility of narrowing the wage scissors. The long-term objective is to correct inequalities, to approximate the salaries of those in the same position and those in the same function. Thus, the salary is determined in the same band range, taking into account the category of classification and the period of service, which creates the possibility of individual differentiation reflecting performance. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Another main objective of establishing a new system of salaries is to make the broad and complex system of allowances less specific to wages, so that the allowances are less decisive than the current ones in terms of the total number of employees. The aim is to simplify or drive out a number of allowances and to build on the monthly salary this is a direction that I think we can all support. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The bill shall include a review of the categories of grades in the salary system and a correction of them which is necessary on the basis of practical experience. With this proposal, therefore, a single NAV legal relationship will be established, the current specific duality will be eliminated, wage tensions will be reduced and a more favourable system of salaries will be created than before. In view of this, the KDNP fraction will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-04-84	I would like to welcome once again my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go.
u2020-11-04-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a number of aspects from the government side, in addition to why this legislation is good, why it is good to create this legislation in this form, and there have been many points of appreciation, which is indisputable. I think that it would be unnecessary to repeat these points; perhaps it is more interesting in the debate that I share with you what points have been raised in our group and on what points there are doubts, and I trust that these doubts can be resolved in the general debate and then at the subsequent stage. First of all, a new bill establishing a legal status has come before Parliament, which is the number of legislation with this content. The question is why, over the past few years, the status of employees has changed. These changes appear to be experiencing tensions, in many cases worsening labour protection, increasing vulnerability and, at the same time, having to suffer, where appropriate, a reduction in salaries or salaries. Here, let me bring up the possibility of a proposal that could lead to a 30 per cent shift in the negative direction, and the possibility of 300 hours of overtime per year as proposed means that an employee may be obliged to work more than a month and a half per year, which obviously significantly worsens the labour law situation. The new salary scheme will also result in an increase in salary for NAV staff, because you have obviously referred to this, which will have a positive impact on a large number of employees, but it is difficult to explain that the language examination will be terminated from next year in terms of NAV staff, as this option has, until now, brought serious professional results for the organisation as well. [[14.00]] The bill regulates new relationships in many places, either with the same content as Kit. or Hst. Consequently, the question arises as to why this new legal status law was necessary if the same effects could have been achieved by a partial amendment of the two aforementioned laws. The fact that there will be employees who will be appointed after the employer's measure in a position with a lower status or a lower level of job replacement is not acceptable. As a result, in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, the government reduces the salary of some of its employees. This Act will enter into force on 1 January 2021 as it stands, and therefore it is not clear that less than two months between adoption and entry into force leave sufficient time to prepare for the smooth implementation of the status change. For the Government, a list of 13 points, while 15 points for the Minister responsible for the area, details what he needs to lay down in a separate regulation in order for the legislation adopted to actually become operational. So obviously it is also a question of when these regulations will be known. In view of this, I can say at this moment that, in this state of law, our faction is able to abstain, but I very much hope that, in part, we will be able to resolve a significant part or all of our doubts at a later stage in the parliamentary negotiations, if any. All of this has been said with a positive intention and in the interests of the Hungarian workers concerned. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-04-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-87	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House, Parliament is about to make a far-reaching decision when it will adopt this law, as mentioned earlier, as the status and position of an apparatus whose task is to collect more than 90 percent of the budget revenue will change significantly. I think that this is a huge responsibility and a huge task. In any way, but practically for Hungary, the tax collection that provides our common costs, I believe that it is definitely a very serious guard. Another question is what a tax system is and what the legal background is to qualify for recovery, which we are debating in many respects. I think we need to talk about a very important community and organization. If I remember correctly, we are talking about more than 20,000 people in this lineup, which is why the legislation describing the circumstances of their task is very important. In particular, because over the past years you have seen and experienced very high fluctuations in this body, and if that is the case, it is of great importance to know who, when, how they can perform this important task, how they are prepared to perform the task accurately. This task has questions that we need to consider; I am thinking primarily of the Democratic Coalition. In the first step, I must say, in this law, that you have adopted a law that deals with, in general, examining the social and economic impact of the amendment of laws. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State where this impact assessment is. I trust that you have done this work, and you will not go insanely into this story. I have just partially praised you, and from the other side I have shown you that the task that more than 20,000 people have to do is extremely important and large. I respectfully ask whether their own laws are being observed. I think that they will, so all I ask is that you give us the opportunity to provide this information, so that this analysis is clear, and that we can make a decision based on the same information as you do, or I think it was done on this basis. Despite the explanatory statements, however, we do not see that the provisions of the bill would substantially improve the financial and moral appreciation of workers. If there is such a great task and they are doing such a great restructuring other than that their ordinary directors are machiavellists who want to maintain continuous restructuring and continuous movement, unless that is why they are doing this transformation, along this principle, rather than being able to operate as a reliable, otherwise party-free place, the organization itself. They claim that they will create a single legal relationship, but this is not entirely the case, since the organisation itself will consist of three employees of different status and status. There is a risk of discrimination in the workplace, but in other legal entities, and there are problems in this regard. I'm just saying that in parentheses, but I am strengthening what my fellow Member Varga has already said: to remove the language substitute and to promise that it will be installed somewhere, isn't that a little embarrassing? I'm sorry to put it this way. It's supposed to be a problem. In this country, where you are very much counting on foreign investors, the workers who come in this way, who are many, to eliminate the replacement language, I think it is wrong in general, so it is wrong on a principle basis, and in particular, with people who have planned it in the longer term, they have calculated more than an outburst. If they're prepared for this, then why shouldn't they have it, and even if they have to use it in their jobs, then it's completely incomprehensible why they're doing this. With the uncertainty that is produced by removing the commitment to a civil servant's salary base, they are taking a great risk, but I certainly hope that if they dare and can be heard through the union, they will tell us as well. I didn't see it, but I hope Mr Secretary of State told you about the outcome of the negotiations with the unions, what they told you. I could say that this opinion has not been sent to us, and in this respect we will have to take a position without it. This tells me that, in addition to the clear agreement of the workers, the intention that my fellow Member Nacsa expressed was that the workers could not do any worse but better. But if we can only find one person who is worse off than before, then I think they're going to create a mechanism to correct this, because it's such that no one in 21,000 is going to get hurt, and it can't happen despite the best of intentions, although there's no doubt about your perfection and intention. [[14.10]] But let me say that if you make a mistake, then there must be a mechanism to correct all of this, because in this respect it is partly a huge responsibility and, on the other hand, compassion for people and workers tells me that there is a need for mechanisms where this can be corrected. Since you very much do not like trade unions and even negligate them, I must say that this is your first responsibility from the point of view of the workers. I must say that here you have limited the freedom of speech and expression of the workers, the free exercise of the right of assembly, and you are reducing these people in all of this, while only partially ensuring a decent salary, but only with the leaders I see a very high income. I don't think it's right. In this law, too, the intention of transferring without the consent of the parties, I see that they are very much in love with it, and in practice the possibility of conducting the war is now reflected here, as has always been the case in other laws. Of course, the position of the Democratic Coalition is that without an impeccable tax authority, it is unthinkable to whiten the economy. But since corruption has been suspected in countless cases over the past period in virtually the circles close to the government, it is very doubtful that the tax authority, whose employees are so vulnerable to their leaders, can avoid having to face political orders. I'm sure they won't want to carry it out, but the fact that you're using it in this way and you're taking advantage of it, I think we've seen it in the past. We agree with the need to transform the NAV, but the most important thing is that the political dependency of the organisation should be removed, and this draft, this draft law, does not guarantee it at all. Therefore, I think that if they cannot change this or do not want to change it, it will be very difficult to support it. In particular, if, in other respects, the situation is maintained that the world's highest overall sales tax is being operated in Hungary, and in this way, in fact, for some organisations that are not given sufficient attention, I would say that for those to whom it is only ten or maybe twenty years of control, it is, let us say, a real paradise that you will now offer here. I believe that, in the fight against the black economy, an ever wider range of online solutions can not only be agreed upon, but should also be supported. But in itself, I hope that solutions that are already spreading around the world will not only be applied and used in ways that serve party policy objectives, but also in other fair ways. There are some alarming examples, however, in which the tax authority also contributed when László Bige is a fertiliser-producing entrepreneur, let's say they sought and actively contributed to its regulation. I hope that the IRS will be less and less used as such a weapon. As I said, this law does not guarantee that it will in itself avoid it or intend to break away from this situation and deal with it in this way. I therefore believe that until decisive action is taken in this regard, the intention and this instrument are in the hands of your leadership when it is very important to consider what you are doing in this regard. Thus, in this form, it is not yet eligible. We will see what you intend to do here in the next few days, how you intend to change that. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-04-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The tax authority amendment proposal before us is a complex and comprehensive review of this otherwise very important institution. Here, I would like to say quietly that many other public administration institutions may also need, and even need, similar measures. We know that this amending proposal is linked to tax laws and the notified measures that extend the functions and work of the tax office. In addition to the long clarification and clarification text, however, we would like to draw attention to a few things. The IRS is still heavily overworked, carrying out a lot of tasks and cases and, as my fellow Member Varju mentioned in his previous speech as the lead speaker, they have a huge responsibility. However, we also know that in the future more tasks are planned to be transferred and that more tasks are transferred to the tax office. For example, the administration of the local industrialisation tax return, and I could still list these additional tasks. Here we have a question of what kind of additional tasks or tasks arising from the whole of the law are to be carried out. In carrying out both old and new tasks, I think it also means an extra burden for employees and employees in the NAV, which, let's just say, assumes an increase in numbers that we cannot read out of this bill, although I want to acknowledge that the direction can be an absolute positive and eligible direction. At present, the number of NAV employees is well below 20,000, and this number is constantly decreasing. One of the reasons for this is that long-time workers reach retirement age and the other is that their salaries are not competitive. Let's just think, Mr Secretary of State, about what income you have spent a decade or two at the NAV in the market you can go to work with economic operators today. I think that you know the answer as well as I do that it is important, not 10-20 percent higher income for the competitor, but a multiple of the current salary for an experienced and high-quality employee. I think that this wage development should be more pronounced than it was before. Here again, I would like to mention what my previous speaker, my fellow Member Varju, has already mentioned, that we will not be able to keep the workers if we take away the replacement language. Indeed, language skills are now one of the skills needed to carry out everyday work that must be rewarded. If you don't pay that loss, or you can say that we don't pay it, then believe me, there will be players on the market who will pay it. Therefore, in addition to the most constructive approach, I must ask you to consider this decision. [[14.20]] Another important part, which we also welcome, is digitalisation and economic whitening. Any development and innovation that accelerates and simplifies people's administrative tasks should be supported and promoted. What we consider important is that these developments must be made accessible and easy to master. I am thinking of older people and businesses, typically small businesses that still do not use digital solutions, which is why I said that there is also a need for an information campaign or programme where everyone can know how much digital development can make their lives easier. We can also see the government's efforts in the online account system and the continuing obligation to use it; where it is almost complete, we can also see the benefits. The proposal includes the Committee on Sustainable Economic Whitening. In this regard, we would already have proposals for the Committee, because, in addition to economic whitening, sustainability is included in its name, which would require a more resilient and stable economy in the first place. Sustainability is the most important thing to be more efficient with our resources, so all material waste needs to be reduced or eliminated. The whitening of the economy involves the need for decent wages, and also the need to review contributions, so that the number of minimum wage notifications can be put in the background, because today there are a lot of people on minimum wage, even though we know exactly that they do not earn that much, and we also know what serious disadvantages they will suffer in their old age. What I would also like to mention in any way in the context of economic whitening, although it is not closely linked to this bill, is the reduction of VAT on basic foods. Because, while we are talking about whitening, beyond the social policy objective, which I think the government should also support in these times of crisis, we also need to see that tax evasion will cease at a VAT burden of 5%, and is not comparable to a system where only the general turnover tax sometimes significantly exceeds the mark-up of basic food in this sector. I think that this kind of action would otherwise pay off in the long run, because I wish there was a loss of revenue for the state, but the whitening of the economy would be a wonderful way to compensate for that. We still need to talk about the performance rent. This is also an incentive system, which is therefore an eligible proposal, but it is important to ensure that those who have not already operated in such a system have the possibility to switch, as it is novel for them, and the proposal suggests that an extra-minus 30 per cent difference can be made according to the work carried out. And I have a question here, too, that there is a sufficient number to monitor this performance system, and that there is sufficient knowledge to verify that the system will be operational at all. The ability of the salary diversion system requires more people with new control functions, or a fully automated system, so I would like to ask which direction the Ministry or the tax administration will start following the adoption of the law. However, overall, it can be said that the transformation is necessary and can also be supported, despite any doubts that may arise. I am convinced that this type of transformation is necessary at the NAV, and that a similar transformation would be necessary even for a large number of public administrations, but please answer the question, Mr State Secretary, in any way that the current stock of the NAV will be able to carry out the tasks it has done so far, complementing the tasks that it will otherwise have to carry out in addition to tax laws and other laws. The fact that you and the Hungarian government consider the income that is typical of the National Tax and Customs Office to be sufficient to retain the stock is, as a matter of course, extremely linked to this issue. I think that if we measure the responsibility on their shoulders a little bit, the Hungarian government can reach into their pockets much braver than that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-04-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the lead speakerial round. Now we have a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then we'll have proper speeches. I give the floor from the Jobbik Group to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-91	Mr President, Dear House, The opportunity is tempting, since many of the previous ones, along the subject of the collection of well over 90 percent of budget revenue, have widened the framework for the general debate. That's what I said. That's what I said. It's a tempting opportunity to wander into more dangerous waters, but I'm still trying to stay close to the heat of the stove. However, what we need to see is that it is an extremely important issue on which, let us be honest, this government has been timid over the last ten years, and, for the sake of fairness, let us add that its predecessors have also been timid. In fact, if the tax system had been combined to make it more fair, to improve recovery efficiency and to clean up the climate, as far as the legal background was concerned, it would have been worth hundreds of billions of extra benefits in the national economy by 2010. Here, however, we find that an amazing concentration of activity is taking place at the NAV: the transfer of administrative cases and the transfer of the execution of forensic cases to the NAV, compared to earlier, represents some 300 thousand new cases in 2020. And we also see that the tasks related to the registration of self-employed persons are currently more than 560 thousand individual entrepreneurs in the tax database as well, and we can see that, in addition to a number of 20 000 people and a constantly decreasing number of employees can face personal challenges that are not necessarily correct to them. So, Secretary of State, many of us have asked the question, perhaps one answer in the closing words in this area is that, with such strong fluctuations and a slight decrease in the number of additional tasks, this is a phenomenon that I would certainly welcome in the spirit of an overall positive salary balance. At the same time, we also see that the 30 per cent possibility of hijackings has already been mentioned and that the possibility of even in a negative direction raises questions. Obviously, in a serious, strictly regulated environment, there is no need to fear great dangers, but this serious, strict regulation is very difficult to see from here, the Parliament horseshoe, within such an organization. I think that there is definitely still uncertainty here. On the other hand, what we have doubts about is the effectiveness of the fight against the black economy. Here, in order, government-based statistics show that, in terms of VAT revenue lost due to tax avoidance, they believe that this indicator has already fallen below 7 percent, i.e. the rate of VAT loss due to avoidance. At the same time, what we see is the reality that countless businesses are under pressure or simply avoid paying taxes that do keep the grey zone alive. And we see as we walk around in popular shopping malls, where there is a huge cavalcade and traffic all day, where a restaurant or a service unit chef is announced for four hours in shopping malls in Budapest. And the four-hour announcement can last for years without pricking anyone's eyes, anyone interfering in a situation that shines from a thousand meters away. We could give many examples, but what we can see is that workers are in a state of incredible compulsion. If an employer tells him that my friend, we can announce by four o'clock, and you get the rest in your pocket, very few workers in today's world can start arguing, negotiating or finding another job. [[14.30]] I am a very, very great fighter to develop employee self-esteem in this respect, but then the bills come in, you have to pay rent, the child has to go to school, so many people are forced to do so, that this purification is simply not expected without normal regulation. And I also have the feeling that with a penalty-tax solution along with water, the child is being poured out by this government. It's 19 again. A 21st century approach. It's a 100th-century problem. And indeed, as my colleague Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi rightly said, if at least the limit were to rise from the current 3 to 6 million, a very serious layer could already be removed from this unexpected burden, since, let us face it, the behaviour of the government constantly shows that it is trying to take picturesquely popular steps, but it constantly narrows down the range of people who can take advantage of the opportunities and, in the case of kata, we can also observe that a very wide social group is now simply excluded from the possibilities, and we can also see that when, overall, the salary can be said to be an increase in the framework of the NAV, the elimination of the language test and the inclusion of the language test, it is still a negative measure, which, in my view, is unnecessary. I don't know, the Secretary of State has examined the expected impact of this on the budget, that the language exams will not be available in the upcoming system. I do not know how much you want to save, whether it is the NAV or the Government of Hungary, but I simply do not believe that taking away the possibility of education and self-development will bring profit to the national economy in the long term. That's quite simply barbaric. I guess you don't think so. I am very confident that there is only some mistake that can be corrected by a dark night's amendment. I am asking you to do this, and our group is supporting this amendment, which will lead to the abolition of the language exams in the present form, and we will support this, so we do support the preservation of the system so far. I have the same opinion about the 30 per cent possibility of a salary being hijacked in the negative direction. Maybe that pen caught me too thick here too, and we should definitely take it back. However, I also see that the possible overwork that appears in this system I do not want to visualize a slave law 3.0, because this is indeed a professional debate and we are trying to preserve the tone of this, but we see that if it is possible to force, possess, motivate, to overwork some workers at 300 hours, although motivation is a very strong word in this case, then there is a guarantee that the vulnerability of workers will increase. Once again, we are talking about an organisation that, with great fluctuations, is trying to preserve its employees, but it should compete with the competitive sector in the light of the scarce resources at its disposal. And in the case of cadavers, I've been trying to force an honest confession from the government for a very long time. Because they force a lot of ditching into the situation in which it operates, and this government has simply refused to declare what its real objectives are for these workers. Even in the case of the replacement of lost wages, it has been mentioned that the vast majority of catapults are left out of the various support options. Our goal is to try to extend the construction of the Hungarian employment protection fund, which would make up for 80 percent of the wages lost for all the employees concerned, somehow to the cataclysms. I do not want to give Mr Secretary of State here a prescription on an A4 paper on how to do this, because obviously without professional organisations it is not appropriate to finalise such concepts, but I do see that this problem needs to be touched. The Secretary of State cannot afford to allow a double problem in the case of ditchings. One of the problems is that, as we approach the retirement age, the expected care of these countrymen will be able to operate in an incredibly reduced mode, such as those of workers who are here, say, like the Secretary of State, a Member of Parliament or any of our colleagues, and the known method of payment of contributions is being carried out around their employment. I would also like to say to you that in many cases it is not the choice of clicks that they may or should not take seriously the preparation for this retirement age. A lot of people are forced into this life situation. Take a look at the press workers, such as photographers, outside journalists, and in many cases only talk to them if they have a cataclysmic relationship on the table, and the responsibility of the Government of Hungary, not only is it your responsibility, the government at all times, to try to take care of their elderly care at all levels, to create a climate where this is even possible. But allowing hundreds of thousands of people to remain insecure as they approach retirement age is simply irresponsible in addition to a demographic dive. He tells these workers to stay on the side of the road, and this message is unacceptable. I add, and this is indeed a footnote, but it is a very important footnote, which was also felt by the family on the side of the road during the eviction in Csepel yesterday, while they could have received a deferment from the mayor and the office, but they did not receive this delay. And as a covid patient yesterday, members of the family on the street probably feel the same way. In one case, fortunately, you have received a one-week delay, but I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that before the eviction moratorium day, this confirmed positive family of Covid patients would like to be put on the street next week, so if you really care about these people, you should join us in the field. I promise you that there will be no enemy atrocities for you, or we can leave this building together, and I will say this most seriously, without any cynicism, but our fellow countrymen would very much expect the help that they are unfortunately not getting. I do not want to visualize that NAV employees are in a similarly difficult situation, because fortunately they are not, but there are also credit-damaged people among them, including the victims of executives. Don't let these people feel that the rest of the decaying social safety net can't provide any protection. I would like us to recycle this safety net somewhat, but the elimination of the language test, the possibility of diverting the salary in such a negative direction, does not strengthen this feeling, so our firm request is that these not too much budget saving and perhaps some pointless elements be cut back, the whole concept is set up in such a way that an opposition representative can vote for it. Until then, a benevolent yes cannot be put on this package with a conscience after which the one-off opposition representative could sleep in peace. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-04-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else could apply for a proper speech. [[There's no such signal.]] No. Then we close the block, and Congressman László Varju asked to speak for two minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to add one more thought, and that is what we all know that there is an economic crisis in Hungary. In this situation, the tax authority's connection to this, your attention, I could say: its very strong authority action, either its service approach, or the strengthening of the services of the office in itself, I think it doesn't matter how this happens. In particular, if the country is in a situation where you are forced to use the authority, i.e. the tax authority, to pursue those who, by the way, are increasingly difficult to deal with, do not cheat on the system of the world's highest general sales tax. I therefore think that it is important to draw attention to the fact that, once a system has been established that, in essence, all businesses are becoming completely transparent, since, in the context of the introduction of a system of electronic invoicing and even the provision of accounting, as they move forward in this regard, these services are becoming increasingly visible. But I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, in Hungary, when such an economic crisis is raging, and in fact, businesses are not getting any help from the state, from the budget, and they have to let people go, so they are in a very difficult situation, and this has to be taken into account in the checks that you are carrying out. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-04-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Again, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Norbert Izer if he'd like to take the opportunity to respond. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Your time frame is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go. [[14.40]]
u2020-11-04-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard many positive, valuable thoughts in the debate, which is why I would like to respond. In the tax area, there is more negative criticism from the opposition benches, and we are finally going through a debate on which at least half of the comments were positive. I would like to thank and respond to these, which I think are based on a misunderstanding or perhaps a negative criticism. I'd like to open these up a little bit. Let's start with Mrs. Potocska's comments. I think that one of the most serious elements here was not exactly related to the NAV law and the legal status law, but to the committee responsible for sustainable economic whitening and the rules of the cata system. It is very important to see that, if this committee is established, it will be an analytical, evaluation and proposing committee, so it will obviously not have the power to carry out audits and will not be able to take over the NAV's tasks, but it can make suggestions on the areas in which the tax authority will look at, what focus areas to focus on. This committee will also make these proposals, and that is the main objective of identifying the areas where more room for economic whitening is available. I think that, as the proposals have been made in relation to the whitening of wages, such as black employment, VAT, so what we have just heard is that the committee will obviously be able to put them on its agenda, and it will be able to analyse them and, where appropriate, to make proposals in this respect. Thank you for these suggestions. Back to the question of the kata, I would like to confirm to the lady representing that the government does not intend to amend this rule. The result of this almost year-and-a-half consultation and dialogue with the profession makes me say this, so it is not the arrogance that the government never hears the words of taxpayers or opposition representatives, but there is a very detailed analysis behind it. For a year and a half, we have been talking to taxpayers about ways to reduce the abuse of the cat. We have received about two dozen suggestions from organisations, representatives of the profession, tax advisors, accountants, chambers, and we have analysed each of them as to the solution that can reduce abuse, but in return it causes the least possible burden for the ditchings. I must say that this proposal, put on the table by the Chamber and adopted by Parliament in the spring, is a proposal that does not directly affect the cataclysms in any way, only puts a burden on the party's side. Obviously, we can see that they will be able to incorporate this into the prices in some cases. However, it is important to see that, according to our calculations, more than 400 thousand of them are still 340 thousand, so it does not affect the change in any way, because this 340 thousand clicks, for example, last year, could not issue an invoice from more than 3 million in total to a partner. So, based on this level of analysis of virtually individual data, we can say that the lives of 340 thousand clicks will not change in any way, neither the administrative burden nor the tax burden will increase. That is why I regret the fact that many times in the press there is a banning of penalties and fines, because that is not the case. It's just that we want to keep the Katas in the position they're in right now. By the way, those clicks will be faced with additional burdens by the client or through the client, who are in the so-called lucky position of being able to issue, say, half a million-million-dollar invoices to a partner/month. I think a lot of people would be happy about that, or a lot of small entrepreneurs with a lot of catapults would be happy if they could put up such a high bill for their partners. Unfortunately, the majority are not in this situation. Instead of a loud minority, the silent majority, to say the least, has been taken into consideration. Our aim was to ensure that the vast majority of the cataclysms did not encounter administrative or tax increases. I think that this amendment, which was adopted in the spring, fully serves this purpose. We also agree that the principles or techniques used as an alternative to black employment should continue to be monitored. These will continue to be examined by the NAV, as it has done so far. I think there will be no change in this direction. So this 40 percent tax that has been introduced is not an exemption from black employment. In addition, the NAV will also examine and punish the use of catapults as an alternative to employment. This is a tax that, fairly, we think will offset the tax burden of this tight-cut and clientele compared to the tax burden that little bits now bear. I think it's a fair, balancing tax, not a penalty tax. It is very important to note that the 40 percent tax rate in the kata has existed since its introduction, so this is not a penalty tax that the government has now invented. It's a tax that still exists in the kata system. The accounts currently bear the 40 percent tax that are above the 12 million HUF band. It's an elegant, cautious outlet mechanism. In the new system, which will enter into force next January, this 40-percent paying tax will also implement a cautious, elegant approximation mechanism, so there is no penalty tax in any case. I'm asking you not to tell the press on your side that we're trying to make the catnips impossible. This is the best way to maintain the competitiveness of the clicks. I think this is the main goal of continuing to support the Katas. Indeed, the burden of hundreds of thousands of clicks will increase, as has been said by the Member in her speech, and the burden of hundreds of thousands of clicks will not increase. The burden of the principals will increase, and the burden of 340 thousand clicks will not increase by one forint, provided that you do exactly the same activity and amount as you did this year. So what you can see is that the vast majority, three-quarters of the cataclysms, will not face any negative consequences. In response to Mr Varju's comments, I was very pleased when he began his speech, Mr President. There were a number of points that we could fully agree with. It has been said that the NAV carries a huge responsibility on its shoulders that it brings more than 90 percent of the revenue. I would just like to clarify here that 94 percent, and we agree to the maximum agreement that NAV colleagues have a huge responsibility. In agreement with Mr Nacsa's thanks, I would also like to express our thanks to all the NAV's staff that this huge task has been done to a very high level in recent years. A very serious guard, as Congressman Varju has also indicated, must address these issues and is an important community that meets the revenue of the budget. The number of staff is about 18,000, so over the years this number has fallen from the previous 21,000 to the area of 18,000. What we need to see is that, in our view, there is a very good legislative opportunity ahead of us now that the NAV will be an even more popular organization next, and it can keep this 18,000 people. It was considered what impact analysis was or what discussions were. I would like to point out to the Member that the impact assessments have been carried out. The unions have been consulted for a very long time. The concept of the law has already been understood by trade unions and representatives of the NAV. When the text of the law was finalized, the final text was agreed with the unions. Trade unions obviously had improvements in their intention to receive the highest possible level of benefits for members of the organisation. Most of these have been installed. I think that in the end a text was born that was absolutely acceptable to the trade unions overall. I think that the trade unions, therefore the organisation of the NAV, and the management of the NAV, are clearly declared, with full breast width, for the implementation of the new NAV law, and the organisation is prepared to implement it. It has also been said by Congressman Varju that there will be no uniform status. I would like to point out that the status will be uniform. There will be different jobs within the legal status, but the status is uniform. This is exactly what we would like NAV integration to do, which started ten years ago in the old APEH and VPOP integration, to unite that from now on, there will be virtually a NAV relationship, and within this there will be clearly civil workers and finance officers, but I think that the unity of status will create this unified treatment. It has also been said on several occasions how barbaric a solution was to eliminate language replacements. I think that if we look at the text of the law, we need to see that the replacement language has not been removed, but has been incorporated. The law guarantees the incorporation of this supplement, so it is not a promise, it is not a promise, it is not a promise that we will possibly compensate for it. The amount of this will be included in the income. It also occurred to me what will happen to those who are wrong. Also after reading the law, Members will see that there is a mechanism laid down in the law that no one can go wrong, so that no one's income will be reduced. [[14.50]] There are a number of guarantees for this in the system, and a mechanism has also been put in place, as you have mentioned, that in extreme cases where someone may not fit in the pay table because, let's say, his income has been too high up until now, and there is a correction mechanism in the legislation. So we can make sure that no one loses their income, and besides, this current legislative amendment represents an average wage improvement of 10 percent. So I think that NAV has been able to maintain its stock with the current NAV rule system, but under the new rule system NAV can give even more competitive payments. In this way, it will be possible to do what you have repeatedly indicated so that we can give NAV employees salaries that will otherwise compete in the market. Congressman Varga also suggested that his salary might be reduced. I would also like to indicate that it cannot be reduced. It also occurred to me what negative consequences this 30 - percent downward diversion could have. It is very important, and it was seen in later speeches that this is an extra-minus 30 percent, so it can be converted up and down. Obviously, this will be preceded by a benchmarking exercise. Here, too, I would like to assure the Members that there is a performance assessment at the NAV, and this benchmarking will be raised to a higher level in the future. I think the guarantee is that the organisation or personnel of the NAV can conduct and implement the benchmarking objectively. So I think there is no risk in this regard that a huge number of unjustified or subjective reductions may occur. However, I also indicated in the exposé that the NAV would like to switch, and with the NAV law we would like to switch from a very clear, time-based career to a more modern, more performance-accepting or tolerating relationship. I think that this 30 per cent hijacking will create this point, that although time-based progress remains, the time gap remains, but performance can be used to correct wages. I think that the personnel currently in place at NAV are a guarantee that they will be able to do this in an objective way that can be verified by the external eye. I am not afraid that this may result in a mass drop in salaries. I think that the NAV is obviously also interested in knowing the best possible staff within its framework. Among Mr Csárdi's questions, it has been said that, with a decreasing number of people, and in the case of a number of questions, the NAV will be able to meet the challenges. Many have retired, their salary is not competitive, and the taking of language replacements have been raised in the proposals. Let me indicate that the number of people in the NAV has fallen from about 21,000 to 11 thousand, but a very serious efficiency improvement programme has also been launched in parallel. So there are developments in the background here, the Members also mentioned the use of online digital solutions, where real-time data is now being collected by the tax authority, and while a check earlier looked like that the tax authority might have gotten tired somewhere, asked for, say, the accounts and ledgers of the last three years on a paper basis, looked into them with relatively time-consuming methods, and now it can be done with virtually mechanical interface search, behind the table, so in desk audit form, with mechanical help. Therefore, most of the selection of controls and risk analysis is already done with such assistance. Thus, this efficiency increase has been able to achieve an ever-increasing level of tax administration's work with decreasing numbers. Seeing how many tasks the tax authority has received over the past period, I value this not as a threat, but rather as a positive acceptance of the work that has been done so far. So what I see is that the tax authority is able to perform the tasks entrusted to it to a high standard, and this has resulted in the fact that, by the way, Hungary has now become a virtually general executive body of the tax administration, who can implement the implementations much more efficiently and with much more modern means. They are also able to enforce the supportive, service-based approach that is characteristic of NAV. Here I would refer back to Congressman Varju that, yes, it is very important that, in the current economic environment, the NAV is able to provide not only a club but also a helping hand. The measures taken by the NAV over the past period, I think it is clear that NAV is now a partner in taxation and, if necessary, it will try to help tax with iron rigour, but with the support of the majority following the tax, and we will try to support voluntary compliance by calling for letters of formal notice and calling for self-revision. I think there are very forward-looking changes in the tax administration. Mr Csárdi also raised the issues to be addressed by the Economic Whitening Committee. You mentioned whitening wages. Again, I can only say that we thank you for these proposals. I think that I will personally be able to propose to the committee which will be standing up to take these issues on the agenda, because, by the way, we agree that these are very important issues. There are still plenty of reserves in the whitening of the economy. Here, let me refer to the number that Congressman Z. Kárpát indicated that we used to come by saying that the 21 percent of the tax was reduced to 7 percent. This is not a methodology calculated by a government, it is the methodology of the European Commission, so a Commission methodology indicates that at the EU level, I almost say that we are exemplary, so we are better than the Germans and Danes. I think that we have done a great deal in this area, and we need to achieve similar results in terms of employment, including in terms of pay in pockets and black employment. I think the committee will put these on its agenda. Finally, Mr Z. Kárpát suggested that we keep narrowing the possibility, also slightly reattached to the kata. Here, let me remind you that the threshold has been raised since the catapult was introduced. It used to be 6 million forints, which increased to 12 million forints. And the tax exemption threshold, which, by the way, is very closely linked to the kata, increased to HUF 8 and then HUF 12 million. So the threshold is constantly increasing, the access to Kata is expanding. We've just seen it, I've referred to it, based on the last year and a half analysis, more than a third of those entering the kata have come from employment. So now there's such a high absorption effect on the Kata, we see, which no longer increases the mass of those who use Kata for purpose, but the mass of those who come through from employment. That's why I think it was necessary to take a step that keeps the kata competitive and focuses on those who typically bill one or two, so very few places. I think that the hairdresser, the nail artist, the taxi driver, so those who were invented to sell to private individuals were not harmed by this measure in any way. I think it is our most important task to keep it that way. I would like to respond to one more point from Mr Z. Kárpa's speech on the pension problem. Indeed, we have often stressed that the competitive level of kata also means that it cannot be as generous in terms of pensions as other systems. That's why there's a 75,000 option in the Kata, which guarantees and generates a much more generous supply fund. The interesting thing about this was that the popularity of the 75,000 elections did not reach the level that even we had planned for the introduction of the rule, and therefore NAV sought out those involved in this circle in a letter campaign. We sent out tens of thousands of letters to the Katáks and, in a campaign, we tried to encourage them to see the benefits of this HUF 75,000 extra payment and to see how much higher their supply rights will be. This campaign has had a positive result, so more people have used the 75,000 kata, but it is still missing what is probably the ideal one. So I ask Parliament's help, as well as the opposition representatives, in that we can, for example, help the cataclysms, that the benefits of the 75,000 forints cata can be explored together. I think there is room for manoeuvre in this, and the NAV will continue to help us to show the benefits of this in the future. Thank you again very much for your comments. As I mentioned, most of them, I think they were supportive contributions. The NAV has detailed rules in progress, so the rules at regulation level will be ready soon. I think that Members will see from this that there are very forward-looking and that the risks that have arisen today are explained by and respond to rules. I hope that you can support this proposal by the end of the detailed debate. That is what I trust, and I also ask for the support of the pro-government and opposition representatives. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-04-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[15.00]] We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-97	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the word, and also for the opportunity to bring the data of Hungarian reality to the Hungarian Parliament, because yesterday there was an eviction in Csepel that, in my view, could not have happened in a normal country with a social net. A gentleman named Elemér and his mother in need of care were evicted from their local government tenement by their continued willingness to pay and pay or pay for the latter period of one year. It was evident that due to previous labour market difficulties and temporary incapacity to pay, the gentleman could not always and at every moment repay precisely, but this could be done for an earlier period, and therefore, in addition to the rent of 40,000 HUF, the municipality would have to pay 65 thousand forints for each period. We also see that although the gentleman lost his job because of the epidemic in the spring, they were only able to pay 40,000 forints a month in addition to the rent, but they kept paying, paying, and their total debt has not increased in recent years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It was the City of Everyone's group that has discussed several times with the Fidesz mayor concerned, who, in this way, I would also like to see a better outcome with regard to the capture of Covid and the resulting difficult health situation, but Mr. Mayor and the Fidesz city administration in Csepel, although they could have done so, refused to refrain from eviction of the man and his elderly mother, even though the Mayor would have had the opportunity to state his reasons and to postpone them without stating the legal basis. If he had given a delay, thanks to the moratorium on eviction within days this year, this family would surely have been able to stay in his home. At the same time, the management contributed to the eviction of this family on the grounds of the protection of national property, and the members of the living chain seeking protection were singled out by police force, and then took possession of the property from which this family was removed. In this way, the young man will lose his livelihood, his work, much easier than having a home, and therefore, if he wishes to recover the outstanding debt of about a million, it will certainly be much harder than if he had at least been allowed to try to enforce this family in this municipal home. Yesterday's eviction case in Újpest is at least as outrageous, since the bailiff arrived at someone's home without prior notice and tried to evict him, and the GP confirmed that it was a Covid-infected case. Of course, an enforcement objection has been lodged, but according to the unbelievably incomplete Hungarian legal system, this does not have any suspensive effect in such cases, although Jobbik believes that if this enforcement objection is well founded, at least it is supposed to be justified, then it is quite certain that a suspensive effect should be introduced into the system. Now, I think that the eviction moratorium should be ordered in the course of today, because since I have been here in Parliament, my smartphone has received 5 alarms about the eviction event that took place these days: on November 11, November 12, November 10, an eviction was set at 10 a.m. on November 11, in Pécs, and there is another location in Budapest in one case on November 10, only on this one sitting day. It can be seen that opposition representatives, activists, are not able to be on every scene either, that the civilians are fortunately there, but when the living chains are being destroyed by police force, we must say that the ball should not necessarily bounce on the side of the civilians, but the legislature, the government, should have the responsibility to say the moratorium on eviction. I do not want to persuade any civilians to commit an infringement, I would like to persuade the government to take action at last, and do not allow the home of our fellow citizens to be taken away by institutionalised abuses. It can also be seen that sick people are now on the streets, and those who have lost their jobs can be banned by 33 percent and 50 percent, as well. In the middle of an epidemiological emergency, this created an impossible situation. On this day, of course, we must also remember the heroes of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, as the day of the defeat of the revolution was also the beginning of a very difficult period in Hungary. It is also a tribute to the heroes, but at the same time we must say that the dawn of today's very difficult age, its entrance room could be an amazing social disaster if we now allow tens of thousands of people to be evicted from their homes without accommodation. That is why I call very strongly on everyone to take the necessary steps, to protect the families who can count on us, and we are counting on them. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-04-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balczó Zoltán also applied for a speech after the agenda entitled 'Remembering 4 November 1956' from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-04-99	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Early November 4, 1956, Prime Minister Imre Nagy's short radio speech was delivered early this morning. At dawn today, Soviet troops launched an attack on our capital with the obvious intention of overthrowing the legitimate Hungarian democratic government. Our troops are fighting! The government is in position. That's what I'm telling the people of this country and the public of the world. This is the beginning of our revolution, followed by the bloody vengeance of the Communists, the exodus of hundreds of thousands, and the decades of the Kadár dictatorship, so we are rightly looking at the 4th of November as a national day of mourning. At the request of the Jobbik faction, I am speaking on this anniversary about the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom, but what I am telling you is my personal thoughts, because this is the only way I can feel credible. Personality also means that when I was eight years old, I was able to live through the events, and as a member of a so - called class alien family, I understood the essence of them. The order of 23 October and 4 November in Nyíregyháza was changed: on Wednesday morning, on the 24th, on Wednesday morning, we heard the frightening stream of Soviet tanks passing in front of our house, and it was particularly frightening to know that the target was Budapest, where three of my brothers were; and on the 23rd of October the protesting crowd came to the south bell when, with the help of a crane-car, they knocked down the statue of the hated Cossack rider, and then they walked up and down the city by truck. Well, so much for personal memories in front of my more general thoughts. What do I consider to be the greatest wonder of 1956? The whole national unity, co-conspiracy, feeling and action that took place in those days. Many expect this today, but such an inspired moment is good if it is given once a century to a nation. Today, however, it is still to be expected that the rule of hatred will be replaced by a culture of understanding and compassion. There is no common agreement as to who we consider to be the hero, martyr, or victim of 56, and this is the case with Imre Nagy. There are many who place on their subjective scales the positive and negative actions of their course, and on this basis they judge. For me, it is not where he began, but where he came from: he became Prime Minister of the Revolution, who refused to deny this revolution and war of freedom in the shadow of the gallows, but rather sacrificed his life, so he became a martyr. The power of Cádár was easily over the execution of hundreds of innocent people, but they couldn't do anything about the Imre Nagy who ever belonged to them, couldn't even say or write his name by reading the initials of poetry. The weight of 1956 has been given around the world, hundreds of thousands of people called to protest sympathy for the fact that our revolution has become a war of freedom against the repressive Soviet power. Our real heroes are those young people, many of whom were only teenagers, but they took on the battle against the mighty outnumber, sacrificing their lives. They became the symbol of 1956, the boys of Pest. On 23 October 1956, his victory was physically destroyed by November 4th, but it lives on spiritually as long as the Hungarians, we have the desire for freedom and the desire to do so. The message of November 4 is that we cannot wait for the West, if we do not want to live in popular democracy or illiberal democracy in a free and genuine democracy, we must fight the fight ourselves. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2020-11-04-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Together for the Ironworks! Mr Gergely Kálló has also applied for a speech on the agenda titled after the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This speech is very sad and is very worrying from the point of view of the Hungarian economy. These sad news and worrying economic news are coming from the Ironworks. A few months ago, the management of the Ironworks abandoned the collective agreement with the workers in an unprecedented manner. Although they promised that a new collective agreement would be concluded by 16 February next year, the negotiations have unfortunately not yet started. The other worrying news came in October to the iron workers, namely that they received their October wages in two installments. November was not a waste, and the month of November had a lot of rumors, as in November the iron workers received their salary in two installments: until the 10th, net HUF 200,000, and until the 23rd, the rest of their wages. I'd like to note here that the ironworks don't work for their wages by working half an hour, not the other half an hour, and then I'll work the next one. No. They work hard shifts, under very difficult conditions, so they deserve a decent salary. Although Vasmű is a private company, the municipality felt its responsibility. By virtue of the right granted by the Fundamental Law, the municipality has therefore convened an extraordinary assembly, where it voted for an announcement to the government, and to Viktor Orbán the mayor of the town of Dunaújváros, Tamás Pintér made an open letter. But what is included in this proposal? 1. The municipality asks the government to provide the company's employees with the full salary from the Economic Protection Fund until 31 December 2020; therefore, ISD Dunaferr Zrt. will assist. the situation of his employees. 2. The General Assembly invites the Government to contact representatives of the Russian Federation at government level in order to obtain accurate information from ISD Dunaferr Zrt. its ownership structure. 3. The General Assembly urges the Government to provide guarantees to ISD Dunaferr Zrt. the supplier's debt. 4. The General Assembly invites the Government to appoint a contact person at ISD Dunaferr Zrt. and between the government; the municipality undertakes to provide this contact point from the management of the municipality. Five at the end. According to the proposal, the General Assembly would also welcome the government, together with representatives of the Russian Federation, to promote ISD Dunaferr Zrt. investor groups interested in reaching an agreement with the owners of Dunaferr as soon as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have brought you a velvet pillow and a beaded sword. Your job is to accept this sword. Together with you, we will hold the shield and work together for the future of ISD Dunaferr. I add that this application was voted by the municipality at 100%, so the entire Fidesz fraction also voted. So I would ask you to do the same, together with your fellow parties, to vote in agreement and to discuss this proposal as soon as possible. I don't want to hold you responsible, and I don't want to say that the ball is now in your court. No, the ball is bouncing on our side. This tennis match is going to take place in doubles, and we're on your side. Our basic goal and basic task must be to hit aces, because Hungary is one of the best in the bleachers if not the best two-handed workers are looking at us and waiting for us. Let us work together for the Vasmű, because this is not only in the interest of Dunaújváros, not only of Fejér County, but of the entire national economy. Finally, allow me to remember the heroes of 56. Respect for the heroes! I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-04-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank my fellow Members, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and the stenographers for their work today. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good, good night, a happy home and a happy reunion tomorrow.
