u2020-12-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I respectfully welcome my fellow Members, our technical staff and all those who monitor our work. The first extraordinary meeting of the Parliament will be opened in the winter. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Csaba Gyüre will be attending the meeting to help me. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. The letter and its attachment can be found on the website by representatives and interested parties. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, Mr. notary, asked for an address on current matters. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-12-16-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Christmas 2020 will not be a happy, happy holiday for most Hungarian families. For many, just because they cannot meet their loved ones, they cannot be together as widely as they were in previous years, but unfortunately, there are many who mourn one of their family members because they have lost them in the last few months, over the past year. The coronal virus epidemic not only in Hungary, but everywhere in the world, requires a lot of casualties, but here in Hungary, the third highest mortality rate is the second wave. Unfortunately, the more than 7,000 people who died in Hungary as a result of the coronal virus may be just the tip of the iceberg, since we see mortality statistics that there is a much greater difference between the mortality figures of previous years and this year's mortality figures. We must say that it is already suspected that it is 10-15 thousand of us who have passed away before time, people who could have lived in health and happiness for many decades. Even if the health government and the prime minister themselves keep making bad decisions about the disease management, it's no use being heroic for health workers. I cannot agree with Viktor Orbán in December, who said that, after he is not the virus, he is not responsible for the number of deaths. I can agree with Viktor Orbán of September, who said that all responsibility in the fight against the epidemic lies with the government and, above all, the Prime Minister himself. Indeed, he has the responsibility, you have the responsibility, but then you shouldn't get out of this. The reason why Christmas will not be happy and cheerfully for many Hungarian families this year is because of financial difficulties and distressing their lives. A recent research says that this year the proportion of those who do not buy gifts is 35 percent, so seven out of 20 Hungarians don't buy anything for Christmas. This ratio was much lower before, 28-29 percent. Another research says that 71 percent of those who spend less this year than in previous years, so seven out of ten in the family register are forced to cut back. Again, this is the responsibility of the government and the Prime Minister, as the economy is obviously weakened in the wake of the virus. But how this crisis is being handled, whether people's incomes are being replaced or not, the fact that they extend the time of an unprecedentedly low unemployment allowance, the fact that they pay 100 percent of their sick money, the salary they start, the introduction of the basic salary for the crisis is your responsibility. You have not fulfilled this responsibility, you have failed, you have very badly failed this crisis management in terms of health and economic policy. You might think that at least the public finances are okay, that if they didn't spend so much on people's safety, income security, then macro numbers must be good. Well, he just admitted that Mihály Varga's finance minister is jumping 14 or 16 percent of the government debt from one year to the next. We'll be at 80 percent, I'd say, where you took over government in 2010. But no, because since then Hungarian people have been deprived of private pension fund savings, HUF 3000 billion from Hungarian people, and the deposit of 0.8 per cent of GDP per year, with a total government debt of approximately 15 per cent. So if we compare it to the state of 2010, then by the end of 2020, the government debt will be about 95 percent. This is your economic policy performance in terms of macro numbers. If neither people were helped nor paid attention to public finances, indebted Hungary, indebted Hungarian families, where is the money? I'll tell you where the money is: [[Dr. Pál Völner: At Momentum!]] at the Fidesz-near oligarchs, the two-thirds public fund management foundations, which are specifically charged with government members to prepare for their defeat in 2022, to be in the party register, and of course, for the unnecessarily purchased ventilators, in Southeast Asia, or even for Chinese railway construction or Paks II. unnecessary investments in the Russians and the Asian country. So we can say that you are responsible for the fact that Hungarian families are in such a bad situation and that public finances are in such a bad situation at the end of 2020. So please. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] If you've failed, at least take this responsibility, stand still, don't get out of it cowardly. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-12-16-2	Thank you, Congressman Tordai, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2020-12-16-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We may agree on one thing, and it is that this Christmas is not going to be like the others, and the reason for that is that we are closing a year in which a virus that has been completely unknown has attacked the lives of millions of people, regardless of their place of residence, age or otherwise worldview. We are not out of trouble yet, but the lesson is clear that if action is needed in difficult times, then the nation states are still the best framework for this, everyone will find their way home in trouble, expect and expect meaningful action from national governments, and governments will try to meet this requirement. Another important lesson for this year is that in most countries, the opposition has been able to lower its political tactical activity in order to achieve a successful defence. Unfortunately, this was not the case at home; for while almost the whole country was fighting the epidemic, we saw a small, handful of exceptions for the opposition on the left. The left-wing opposition fought against the government all along, but it hit the doctors and nurses. When people are called upon to account for their deaths, they are actually discussing and attacking their competence, their professional choices. [[Bence of Turdai: No, I didn't!]] [[9.10]] It's hard to decide what was the real low on the left in the last few months. When they came in here and said that the worst is mortality statistics in Hungary, and when we bring that up, do they even threaten to sue? Or when they took advantage of a man with an unfortunate fate and said that nine out of ten patients sent home died? Or when they demanded a ventilator so that when the government got it, they criticized the government for getting so many ventilators? It may also be possible to go to the deepest point when a false campaign was launched on tests, claiming that eight out of ten tests in Hungary have to be paid for while it is a lie. It was also a Pinocchio award, but perhaps the word "Sort Prize" is more appropriate. They've already started the mood for vaccines, but I hope they'll have the sense of responsibility to stop it as soon as possible, and do it because it's a matter of lives. As far as economic aspects are concerned, this epidemic has also hit the economy sideways. So our priority is to protect jobs. If you look at the budget, this year and next year, you will see that in addition to protecting people's lives, everything is subject to this goal. What I think is natural is that they are proposing things, and they also have proposals in economic matters. But if they were to act so much, my question would be why they wouldn't do it in those places, in the municipalities where they had their responsibilities. Because, for example, they demand easier living, but they immediately start raising taxes where they can do so. They'd start with IMF-type restrictions without the IMF. They're referring to families, but there's a city that gets evicted. They claim to be viable, but they want to expand the relief system instead of protecting jobs with teeth and nails. They refer to the environment, but for now we see only the much larger plugs in Budapest. They demand transparent relations, but on the big bus tender they bring out a company that didn't even exist when the tender was issued and it doesn't even have buses. Do you understand, Congressman? ! And when the mayor gets questions about this, the Bajnai strategy is immediately there, combined with the Demszky strategy: he wasn't there, he didn't know it, he didn't know it, but it was the government's fault. The government, the government, the government, always showing off. I understand the political considerations of this, by the way, but understand that there will be no effective protection against an epidemic, no new jobs, no developing cities. This is going to be a christmas slump, even if it's not a brezhnyevite. You often say that the left is renewed. Well, it's not renewed. This is basically the pre-2010 record with numbers such as tax increases, running abroad, reporting the country, restrictions, continuous tearing of the family support system, instead of work aid, dusted nokis boxes, fake news campaigns and so on. There are also a few bonuses, but like anti-Semitism on the left, it's new, electricity theft, cigarette smuggling, these new ones. Now, this is a record we don't like to listen to, especially around Christmas. All in all, we are closing a year that has strengthened the experience of many people about the fact that in really difficult times, when it comes to economic independence, support for families and security, only Fidesz-KDNP can be expected. That's how it's gonna be next year. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-16-4	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the May Other Politics, also spoke before the agenda.
u2020-12-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We are closing a difficult and instructive year, one that questions the correctness of policies so far, the relationship between people and societies, our way of life, the survival of unsustainable social and economic models. The Covid epidemic exploded into our lives and fundamentally changed it. He clearly pointed out that we can't continue in the same place we were before the outbreak. The government and Viktor Orbán are probably aware of this. In the first wave of the epidemic, the Prime Minister said that the Hungarian economy must be made crisis-resistant, that domestic industry must be developed, that small and medium-sized enterprises must be strengthened, and that they will not leave anyone on the side of the road, and that health care will be prepared for the second wave. But all that's left are nice words. There is no evidence of any substantial change in the government's social and economic policies, nor in environmental policy. Social solidarity is an unknown concept for the government. You continue to fill the pockets of the multi- and Fidesz oligarchs. The latter is used to support unnecessary luxury investments, such as Paks II, Budapest-Belgrád railway, or my favourite, of course, is the MotoGP Hajdúnánási track. It is not so old that the government has spent three times as much money on large investment in sport as it has on health. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] In a normal country, ladies and gentlemen, a government would have failed a long time ago. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. In recent years, the government has used tourism failure as an excuse to develop luxury hotels with massive billions, while allowing the natural shores of Lake Balaton and our large lakes to be integrated into nature damage. Of course, it's easy to figure out who won these grants. Of course, Lőrinc Mészáros and his associates. However, the situation of small travel agencies has not been substantially helped by the government. Meanwhile, the government eviscerated the municipalities. It has taken considerable resources from them, putting the public tasks needed for people's daily lives in jeopardy. With this attitude, the government makes it impossible for the municipalities, who know the problems of people living in the area most, to be able to help. They cannot provide aid to those in need, nor can they help the elderly in need in the period of the epidemic. Over 60,000 people have lost their jobs in the last two months, and we're still talking about the job search fee. The government was unable to increase its duration from three months to nine months, not to mention an increase in the amount. It is also a good feature of Fidesz's attitude that social workers still did not receive the 500 thousand HUF wage supplement promised to them earlier, even though the budgetary implications are only HUF 45 billion. There's no money for that, but there's money for luxury investments. Allow me to say a little bit about environmental policy at the end of the year, because the epidemic has also pointed out that environmental and nature protection cannot be a luxury. At the beginning of the year, the government announced the climate protection and nature conservation action plan, which, I must say, is a Band-Aid to the wound. It has no merit in curbing climate change or preserving the values of nature. The economy should be set on a declining path in terms of carbon dioxide, and of course the Mátra Force should be closed as soon as possible, the energy modernisation of residential buildings and the destruction of green surfaces should be completed once and for all. However, radical action is needed to make a meaningful change. The disintegration of society, the poverty of people should be stopped, public money should not be flown into private pockets, but this requires a different sense of society, which is very, very far from the Fidesz government. Ladies and gentlemen, The government should also draw on the experience of the epidemic and change its policies accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the opposition benches.]] [[9.20]]
u2020-12-16-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, who responds to what has been said on behalf of the government.
u2020-12-16-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the first word should be to thank all those involved in the protection against the Crown Virus, especially medical workers, doctors, nurses, but let us not forget all those who are helping their work, or who are involved in maintaining public order, soldiers, policemen, but we could list the different working orders further. And indeed, honourable Member, there is also serious truth in what you have said that the coronal virus epidemic has some serious lessons to be learned. These are important lessons that we should continue to study, and it is worth taking over for us the things that will determine for the coming years and decades. This is what the government is doing, because that is what our economic measures are all about, and that is what the workshops that are looking into how we can help the Hungarian economy further. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that the economic effects on the corona virus epidemic only confirm the government's fundamental objective, confirm that we really need patriot economic policy, a patriot economic policy that focuses on the interests of Hungary, and this is in stark contrast to the economic policies that you, you and the left represent. You are the ones who are constantly trying to serve international interests, you are the ones who are more important, the left is the interests of international multinational capital. [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] the interests of Hungarian businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Free Democrats!]] Madam Member, precisely the coronal virus epidemic has shown that we need to continue on the economic policy path that the national civilian government started after 2010. We must help Hungarian businesses, help Hungarian people and Hungarian families to participate in the world of value-making work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that, while unemployment was above 12 per cent in 2010, it decreased to 3.3 per cent by the end of 2019 and early 2020. Although there are people who have lost their jobs because of the economic effects of the epidemic, the focus of the Hungarian government's policy is precisely to protect as many jobs as possible and to create new jobs instead of job losses. That is why what you are saying is two-faced, because you are constantly attacking measures to protect jobs and create new jobs. You have also, in your speech, attacked government investments that contribute to the strengthening of the economy. [[Noise in the lines of LMP and Jobbik.]] You are attacking investments that give jobs to businesses and that provide livelihoods and security to Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The solution you're pushing is not working. The solution is not to give aid to Hungarian people, but to give work, to give value-making work. So when there is a problem, there is an economic problem, investment needs not to be reduced, it is not to fight against large government investments, but to be supported and speeded up. Congresswoman, there will only be jobs if we do and if we build, if we develop, if we go forward. Do not attack this, at least now, when the economic situation is more difficult, take it easy now and do not attack these investments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You mentioned the municipalities. We must say again and again that the municipalities have no better allies than the national civilian government, we have pulled them out of bankruptcy, and we give them more and more support each year. Madam Member, if you know the budget figures for the municipalities, you know exactly that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was typical that he spoke only in a small part of his speech about climate protection, because it is now very difficult for you to say anything, because it is apparent that this year has shown that the left, and therefore the LMP, who calls itself green, only talks about the issue of climate change, but only the civil and national governments act. You didn't support it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The climate and nature conservation action plan, they didn't support the parliamentary resolution and law, you just talk, attack the government's actions, and we're working with real action. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-16-8	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, representative of DK, also applied for an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, please allow me to respond to Mr Csaba Dömötör's remark that the opposition was merely trying to prevent disease management and the management of the economic and social crisis. I would like to draw your attention with great respect to the fact that, since October 2019, almost 3 million of our countrymen have lived in a settlement run by an opposition or independent mayor, and so have these settlements. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are the independent also oppositionists?]] they fought together with their leadership, just as the Hungarian government and everyone here in Europe fought against the coronal virus epidemic and to mitigate the economic and social impact. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] They did an amazing job, and they did a job in which the Hungarian government was trying to make them financially impossible at the moment, too, from this scarce budget. So the opposition colleagues stood up. It does not belong to what I would like to say here today before the agenda. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] , since KSH made public last week the data on the labour market in June that had so far been hidden. It has only just been discovered that almost 400,000 Hungarians declared themselves unemployed, even though they officially recorded 215 thousand unemployed. At the time of the epidemic, the Statistical Office classified their job losers not as unemployed, but as inactive. Of course, they could not immediately get to work, they were partly hindered by quarantine and partly by market processes. So since the outbreak began, the official data has not reflected reality as much as it did otherwise. On 29 June, the Prime Minister here in Parliament spoke of 130,000 unemployed, with the suggestion, I quote, that half a million people would have lost their jobs in Hungary, showing ignorance and ignorance. Mr Orbán said this hardly out of knowledge, but we can say that my fellow Members, who were not at their disposal with this KSH data, have come closer to reality than the Prime Minister. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör said in a debate on 18 November that the most important social aspect of the disease control is, however, that he succeeds in protecting jobs. I am arguing, ladies and gentlemen, that you have succeeded in this very limited way. According to KSH, in the first half of the year 4.5 million economically active citizens were in the country, so the 400 thousand unemployed represent 9 percent unemployment. I have counted that you have taught our opposition colleagues 24 times about unemployment data and how our country stands in dealing with the economic and social crisis, and, of course, the press has heard a sound of success. This does not surprise us, but at this moment in this House I have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that, in addition to the coronal virus, we have to talk about the economic and social crisis, we have to face real data. This is what you did not want to confront yourself or yourself, or just Hungarian society, and you have made extraordinary mistakes. Orbán said in his direction, I quote: "Don't think about how to make up for those who fall out of work... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Continue. Keep reading.]] For years you have not wanted to understand the argument that a work-based society is not about having a job for people, but about what it is, because low value added work results not only in workers' poverty, but also in the fact that our economic growth is lagging behind as it might be. You have not heard, ladies and gentlemen, that, during such an unexpected crisis, income support is needed not only to leave our countrymen on the side of the road, but also to save the economy, which can create additional income. [[9.30]] At the moment, not only pensioners need to support them, but also small businesses and small entrepreneurs, who have been very limited in helping, for example, the Kurzarbeit programme, which was extremely difficult to use, and many have decided to make up for their own workers. Ladies and gentlemen, How much actual unemployment is at this moment is likely to be known by you or KSH. We'll probably find out in May based on what I just told you. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, if you guys were going to race a lame dog, I'd bet on the dog. Thank you for listening.
u2020-12-16-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2020-12-16-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He mentioned two topics. Allow me to respond in the same order. Indeed, the municipalities play a very important role in the defence, and I would like to thank all the municipalities for the work they are doing, regardless of their political color. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that the municipalities that are really involved in defence can be successful in this. However, there are municipalities that are engaged instead in political communication, a political campaign against the government. We don't think that's a good approach, we don't think that's a good direction. Rather, those who are left-wing authorities should change course, and of course respect the exception, which uses the period of protection against the epidemic for political campaigning rather than helping citizens. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, referred to this, and you did not respond, so in this sense he could not disprove what the Secretary of State said, that in these situations it would not be the task of these municipalities at municipal level to make life difficult for people, families and businesses. It's the opposite of what you're supposed to do. However, we see that we do not talk about corruption now, let us not talk about the immediate return of the first Demszky era in Budapest, between 90 and 2010, and the related corruption cases are back with us, let us not talk about it, but just talk about what concerns people's everyday lives. Why are you thinking of raising taxes in a situation like this? Why are you taking measures that make life difficult for businesses? Why are you taking measures that make it impossible, making it difficult to protect public transport from the epidemic? The fact is, Congresswoman, that the government had to make a decree so that left-wing authorities would not be able to sabotage the Hungarian people in the fight against the epidemic. So I don't know, you feel the surreality of this. So when we are in the period of protection against the epidemic and we should help the Hungarian people, then you left-wing politicians do not deal with this issue so much that the government has to intervene and declare a tax-raise moratorium so that they are not able to scratch the municipalities in different ways. But what I see is that I read in the press that they are trying everything, and otherwise they are looking for the various alternatives to how to circumvent this government ban, and in various tricky ways to put more burden on Hungarian people in connection with the control of the epidemic. Who do you think is on the other side of the horse? Do you think that's a good approach? We don't think so. So we need to change that attitude. And interestingly, local governments, regardless of their political affiliation, which use this period not to campaign, but to help the Hungarian people in distress, can do their job. The government is always a partner in this, and the government always provides the necessary budgetary resources. If you look at the budget law for next year, it's written in white and black in that law: 16 percent more resources for the municipal sector [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the case of next year, as in this year. [[Sándor Szabó intervenes.]] Sixteen percent! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It's a fact that can't be denied, that's reality. And I think it is important, because the municipalities are doing important work. He also talked about the issue of unemployment. Here, the data of KSH are also Eurostat data, so these are European data. These European figures are quite clear: the unemployment rate in Hungary is 4.3 percent, the fourth lowest in Spain in the European Union is 16 percent, in Italy we are over 10 percent, in Finland we are also above 7 percent, this is half of the European average. We are very happy with this data, and we are working to keep this data as low as possible. Before 2010, when your political allies were in government position, along with the economic policy foundations that you mentioned in the speech, they bankrupted the country, they indebted us, and 12 percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] unemployment was over. We don't want to get back here. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2020-12-16-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Give an example to the Minister. It's an address.
u2020-12-16-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Madam Secretary! I've had three children, I've been home with them for the seventh year. I'm tired of stupid cartoon books, and I'd like to change two sentences with an adult without being interrupted, and all I want to do is pee next to a closed door. I'd like to use my two degrees, the four foreign languages I know, my life experience. They're calling me back to work. Responsible positions, exciting areas, even more exciting times, with talented employees. Eight hours. The swing's flying, the girl's laughing, and I don't know if I should go or stay."These lines come from a career that received a special award from the initiative to increase the social respect and self-esteem of women, Mother Teresa. After all, I congratulate the author, Katalin Novak. I'm sorry you don't show in your biography a number of awards and medals, because it was a reward for a good writing. It is true and accurate to describe the dilemmas faced by a mother with many children. Today we also know that you have accepted the challenge at work. He went back to work, rose nicely on the steps of the state administration, and made a significant career in his party. And I don't doubt you'll still be a good mother, but I'd like to ask you, why did you forget what you knew as a mother ten years ago as a minister? And now I'm not just referring to the many cited sentences about women's pay and careers, you're also saying in a video, Madam Secretary, that we should not believe that a woman can live to be a mother with many children by living only for her family. Would emancipation be your story when you chose professional achievement instead of just living for your family? I think that's a choice we leave to women. Dear Madam Secretary, If we're further away than others, it's because I've been standing on giants' shoulders, says Isaac Newton. You are on the shoulders of such giants as a minister. The fact that you can say what you say as a minister is due to the leaders and heroes of misinterpreted emancipation. If there were known and unknown women, including Rózsa Bédy-Schwimmer, Anna Kéthly and Margit Slachta wouldn't have fought for decades so that girls could learn, women should have the right to vote, to have a career, then you wouldn't be standing here today either, because you wouldn't have a degree, a suffrage, or a political career. Dear Madam Secretary, As opposed to what you claim, women are not subjects and not birth machines. If anyone is, you know that from your own personal example. As a state leader, your job would be to have a modern, XXI. represent an appropriate family policy in Europe of the 20th century. Compared to that, you're putting the community back in the past. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't get personal.]] It can only be hoped that his words have not been followed, that there will be no need for another Slachta Margitok in the 21st century. In the century, who are going to rebuild what you intend to destroy. As a woman and as an equal opportunities politician, I am saddened to say all this to a successful woman, the Minister for Families. [[9.40]] I always hoped to find an ally in a female minister in the fight against inter-relationship violence, but it doesn't seem to occur to you that one of the sources of violence lies in the same vulnerability that your views confirm. Dear Madam Secretary, I read that on a TV show yesterday, you said you were sorry if someone misinterpreted your sentences. I would feel sorry for you if I didn't read that the video was being broadcast by an organization in another video of the strong man who sometimes protects us from ourselves. Madam Secretary, you're in the wrong company. The least you can do now is apologize and erase the video. Please set an example. Show me that, unlike your fellow politicians, you are able to see that you have made a mistake, and please do not dig any deeper into the well of lies, from which you can no longer go back. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-16-14	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Minister Katalin Novak responds to what he said on behalf of the Government and obviously on his own behalf.
u2020-12-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, we stand on the shoulders of giants, these giants are the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters, I feel this way our work, our responsibility. Thank you, too, for saving me about a minute by quoting myself, since I accept all my sentences, including what I said yesterday and what I said years ago. I think I wrote in that very writing how difficult it is for a woman to be between decisions, whether she chooses her career or her family motherhood, and how good it is if she can somehow reconcile these two with each other. That's what we work for. I don't think it's going to lead to a deliberate misinterpretation of my words. I never said that women should earn less than men, and once again I confirm that it is unacceptable for a woman to get less for the same performance than a man, just because he is a woman. I also maintain what I think and what I said earlier, and why I said that motherhood is not a shame. Nor is it a shame that a person devotes his life only to his children, only to his family. The congresswoman questioned the validity of life and the validity of the decision to dedicate her life to her family and perhaps not to live with her degree, to live with her studies, or not to live in the labour market, but also to live in fulfillment as a mother. Let us not take away this right, this opportunity from Hungarian women, from Hungarian mothers, from Hungarian women, give them the freedom of choice! We are working to make a choice in Hungary, and to allow women to choose whether not to have children or not to marry, whether by marrying, agreeing, and having children together with their mates, starting a family, and even by providing for their families throughout their lives, they do not feel that they are second-class women, second-class citizens. I refuse this type of approach, I cannot accept it. I feel that all of this leads to tensions, and you are working to create tension again, to create tension between men and women, to create tension between older people and young people, even though our goal would be to work harmoniously with each other, to live harmoniously with each other, women and men, elderly people and young people. That's why we work. But let's also look at the facts, the concrete ones, some government steps, government decisions that support this very thought. We've introduced family tax incentives, constantly raising family tax incentives. If you were already talking about life stories in person, and your speech was very personal to the Member, then let me say that I had my three children in 2004, 2006 and 2008, so I know exactly what was not in that period and what is now in comparison. For example, when our children were born, we always fell from the support for a larger child. When someone returned to work, they lost their child support. It hasn't been that way since the weed was extra. We changed that. We introduced the family tax relief in addition to the tax relief of the first married couple, continuously building the nursery, and now it's one and a half times as much nursery as it used to be. This also allows a woman to be able to find a job and work in addition to raising children. We will continue this commitment in the coming years. Free children's meals, free textbooks, or there is the . Women's 40, too. What is the story of the Women's 40? About how, after 40 years of service, a woman could retire earlier because of additional burdens, and 300,000 Hungarian women have already said yes to this possibility. This 300,000 Hungarian women also confirm that the 40 women have a right to live in Hungary. If we are talking about what we have done and what you have done, because fortunately we can compare government cycles and government performances, then we can only outline: your government has abolished regular child protection support, the family tax relief of one and two children, reduced the family tax relief of the three children from 10 thousand to 4 thousand HUF, reduced the time of the child, tightened the conditions for entitlement by a year, reduced the upper age limit of the family allowance, continuously increased the price of energy, eliminated the home creation programme, and otherwise did not contribute to the decisions we made, since these laws were not voted here in the National Assembly. So instead of creating tension, instead of constantly stimulating these emotions, I think we should really do it so that women can have a choice in Hungary. That's what I'm gonna do in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-16-16	Thank you very much, Minister Katalin Novak. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Balczó Zoltán, representative of Jobbik, spoke with Mr Orbán and with the title of the Rule of Law Mechanism. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-16-17	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, On 21 July, the Heads of the European Union adopted the Budget Paper and the decision in principle in paragraph 24 on the link between the rule of law and financial interests. The German Presidency of the Council was expected to develop a mechanism that is acceptable to this Parliament and the Member States. To this end, it narrowed down the range of criteria for the rule of law and removed those of a political and ideological nature. On 5 November, the European Parliament and the Member States adopted the Agreement by an overwhelming majority from 27 Member States with the exception of 25 Hungary and Poland. The Regulation only penalises the direct and serious threat to the financial interests of the Community. The only requirement is don't cheat. That's all that's left. Indeed, the Hungarian government would have something to change! The Council of Ministers with the Hungarian convergence programme The Commission's audit of public procurement in recent years revealed systemic deficiencies. Public prosecutorial activity appears to be less effective in Hungary than in other states. There is no decisive and systematic action to pursue high-level corruption. There is no effective remedy against decisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office which provide that there will be no criminal prosecution of a suspected offence. Of course, these shortcomings allow Fidesz to maintain its feudal chain and thus its power. Common resources can come, but without effective control and the withdrawal of money. Orbán started a determined fight against this regulation, with a view to vetoing the budget package, but the public had to be insulted. He said that they want to make Hungary a migrant country, they want to change our constitutional family law, they want to force us to accept gender theory in practice and so on. He finally gave up the veto fight. In the document closing the EU summit, which he has signed, the regulation is discussed as an integral part of the new budget cycle and is therefore applicable from 1 January 2021. The Prime Minister wants to be seen as a winner, so he shows his own achievements that sanctions are not bound to political, ideological conditions, while this was not the case in the regulation. [[9.50]] It's weird, Don Quixote, who fights windmills knowing he's an enemy, but he's trying to convince others that he's a real enemy. Of course, he must have received something at this meeting, in these documents, the following: they will only enforce any sanctions once the Court of Justice of the European Union has established the conformity of the regulation with the Treaties. On the other hand, guidelines are laid down for the regulation. It's about writing down that what's not in the regulation is really not in it. If you put a sign in a crossroads that you have to go forward, you can't turn right in a small circle. But if someone really wants it, let's put out a right-hand side sign. The European Parliament points out more strongly that the European Council does not have the right to interpret the legislation it intends to provide in the guidelines. It is up to the Commission to ensure that the legislation is implemented. Otherwise, if they turn to the Court of Justice of the Union, the EP will ask for an accelerated procedure. Giving up the veto was, of course, important for both our country and the EU. We'll get the budget. Jobbik does not expect us to receive sanctions, but to spend EU funds strictly in a regular manner. The whole veto thing was bad. As Tibor Navracsics said, we are heading for the status of the EU's daredevil. We must bear all the consequences of this, including the isolation that will put us at a disadvantage in other areas and in other cases. Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh: Talk to your brother! Intercoms from the pro-government benches. A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-16-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-12-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I cannot interpret his speech any other way than as an explanation because in recent weeks they have campaigned against Hungary together with the left. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik. A statement from the ruling parties: That's right! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Now sit down.]] I cannot help but recall that it was 2018, when you said before a vote against Hungary that you would not accept the pro-Migration report, that you would not accept the procedure to be launched under Article 7, because it would punish not a government, but an entire people. [[A voice from Jobbik: That's right!]] I'd like to ask you what happened in the meantime, Congressman. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Nothing!]] Because now the same thing happened in Brussels, with one difference: you've switched sides. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because what was the stakes at the EU summit? The fact that they were able to force us into a blackmail procedure that would have allowed them to suspend EU funds at any time, the EU funds that we would otherwise have. Finally, this failed, because we were able to protect the Hungarians' money, because the belief that when we are here in the middle of an epidemic might not be the most important thing for the politicians in Brussels to pursue two Member States for ideological reasons. And the fact is that the left-wing parties, including yours, played an extremely lousy role in this process, all the time cheering for Hungary to draw the short straw. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame on you! Intercom from Jobbik: Bolshevik!]] And when they did, they said the same thing as the most blinded liberals in Brussels. I wonder, honourable Member, how it felt for your MEP to stand up against Hungary in a joint declaration with left-wing politicians [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] In which they even hitlered! It's all like that. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Greater Experience!]] that the same Member here in the House had previously proposed the listing of his fellow Jewish countrymen. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Experience it better!]] And how did it feel for left-wing politicians to do that? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're not home! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] By protesting against you in rows not so long ago and saying that you and the Nazis didn't share a home. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Alas, they were afraid!]] In the manifesto that you and the left-wing politicians were speaking together, everything was in it. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] In which they even hitlered! All this so (Daniel Z. Carpathian: With greater experience!) that the same Member here in the House had previously proposed the listing of his fellow Jewish countrymen. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Experience it better!) And how did it feel for left-wing politicians to do that (Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're not home! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing. I mean, not so long ago, you've been protesting in a crowded line and you've been told that you and the Nazis don't share a home. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Woe, but they were afraid!) In the manifesto that you and the left-wing politicians were speaking together, everything was in it. (Development in Jobbik's ranks. ) The party which, when it was founded, defined itself as its most important task is to remove the Communist successor party from power, it has now joined with the post-communists. (Interjection from the pro-government benches: That's right!) Honourable Congressman, After that, if the great transformation could create a statue, it would be enough to expose a great good logo. Well, not the old one, but the present one, where there are no more national colors, and Austria has imported some turquoise colors. Take a look. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And from what I can see, the names of the settlements across the border have been removed from their laptops. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] It was obviously intended as a gesture for those who had campaigned against them before December 5th. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are sects, that's the problem! The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, It's an old custom before Christmas for children to make a list of what they want. I can see that this tradition is being continued by left-wing parties. Slowly, all left-wing parties have a list of what they want to get and they're texting. But now it's not Santa Claus who decides who gets what, it's Ferenc Gyurcsány in the tiny villa. And, believe me, this isn't gonna make a lot of laughs, and there's not gonna be much laughs, least of all for you. Honourable Congressman, If you have some time after the performance, I'd like to say so much. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then I would like to say that Parliament is holding its last session these days, perhaps it is not a problem that the battles between the parties turn to a slightly lower speed. During the year, we argue a lot, perhaps even harder than we should, and you often question our Christian beliefs, our Christian traditions. I will not question what you believe in, but instead I will take the opportunity to wish everyone, those who are in our community, those on the other side of the horseshoe, and those who are on the other side of the horseshoe, a merry Christmas despite the difficulties. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Long live the party!]] who don't agree with us on everything. May they have a peaceful holiday, a holiday, and, if possible, an increasingly free new year from the plague. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the governing parties and the Jobbik benches.]]
u2020-12-16-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. I'm asking Congressman Balczó to calm down. István Simicskó, leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-16-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's Advent. Advent is a time of waiting, when the human soul is filled with faith, hope, joy and love. As Sándor Márai puts it, we raise our souls to an unforgiving sense of need. I think this need is important for all of us, especially at this time. The Advent period is always important, but this year it is especially important, as a pandemic sweeps through the ranks of mankind with many, many sacrifices, has taken the lives of thousands of people, and many, many have fallen ill. Indeed, we see that there have been many natural disasters and industrial disasters in the known history of mankind, there have been a lot of epidemics, there have been a lot of wars, and we all know who are a little more mature and have a sufficient experience of life, that is when man, heart, soul and ability are measured, how we relate to fellow humans, how we relate to the situation, adapt to it, endure it, or try to remedy it, solve it, help those in distress, help our fellow humans. Ladies and gentlemen, The idea came from Henri Dunant himself, who was the founding father of the Red Cross, who created the Red Cross by seeing the wounded and sufferings of the Solferino battle in 1859, and through this he started in virtually very serious countries, so in Hungary the charitable service activity, the organizations, relief organizations, humanitarian organizations, have been set up that do support government defense in a well-functioning and well-organized state, helping people and those in trouble. Ladies and gentlemen, At the moment, there are several charitable organizations in Hungary, let me mention the largest of them, because the employees working there are also doing a sacrifice: Catholic Charity, the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service, the Hungarian Ecumenical Assistance Organisation, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Baptist Charity Service and the Hungarian Red Cross. In 2013, the Hungarian Government set up a coordinating body, precisely so that if there is a problem, there should be people, organisations and cooperation that can increase the effectiveness of this defence. [[10.00]] The National Humanitarian Coordination Council is still in operation, President of State Secretary Soltesz. Let me thank him for his work, let me thank the members of the council for his work, the volunteers, the helpers, the donors and the individuals, our fellow citizens, who help protect in this trouble, in this emergency, and alleviate the suffering of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a concept of Resilience. It's nothing but flexible resistance. We know that a country, citizens of the country and different organisations need competences, skills, knowledge to do their job the most effectively. In the Hungarian education system we often talk about competences, skills, what to teach our children; it is also necessary to strengthen the skills of the community, protect the civilian population, protect the civilian population and protect them from problems. In the past period, it was also about the fact that all the states have been subjected to a serious trial in the midst of the epidemic, Hungary, but we can see that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, is holding up and that Hungarian health care is doing an excellent job. Thanks to healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, and indeed thanks to those who come from the civil world, who work as volunteers in charitable organisations, and help people, people in need, and should be respectful of their work. I think it is worth bearing in mind the idea, especially of the Christian Democratic movement that Father Kolping left us, but what he asked God to do is to recognize the difficulties, problems, problems of our time, and give us the good Lord's health and strength to remedy the problems. The government works in this spirit, and Hungarian health and charitable organisations work in this spirit. I wish you a very merry Christmas, a blessed Christmas, and I wish you all a merry Christmas! Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-16-22	Thank you very much, Mr. István Simicskó Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-12-16-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, it has been a special year, with many hardships, a great deal of sadness, a great struggle, but also with many, many joys, which has been shown most by the strength of cooperation and cooperation: cooperation in the field of health, and, as you have mentioned, thanks to doctors, nurses, technical staff and researchers for their help. Similarly, there was joy and great cooperation in offerings, including donations, as offerers, whether they are individuals or companies, charities, who have distributed the offerings, and volunteers, young and old alike, have all done a great deal. In cooperation, I think the country has set an example, but unfortunately, left-wing parties, from Jobbik to DK, who produced camuvides against the country, did attacks and discredits against health care, and while we were defending ourselves at home, they attacked Hungary, the Hungarian people in Brussels, abroad. Yet, it is important to thank people for all the work that they have done, whether through the National Humanitarian Coordination Council or in any other way. Thank you for the cash offerings, whether you are coming through the phone or to a bank account number. Thank you for the offerings in kind and for volunteering. Money offers have been received up to 272 million forints, either from the 500 forints small phone calls or from millions of dollars. Here I would just like to tell you one color, ladies and gentlemen, that the RTL Club, which has always been authentic itself, has offered us 10 million forints live, but either you have forgotten the bank account number, or you have forgotten to send us this. It would be good if their promises were made not only on the left but also on the left! On the other hand, offers in kind were also very important: more than 100,000 masks, several trucks of cleaning products, disinfectants, hand cream, tens of thousands of boxes of Béres droplets and vitamins, dozens of motor vehicles, workstation furniture, meat products, durable food, fruit, ozone generators, and could continue the line, which could reach those who needed it, whether within the border or outside the border, and helped protect them. Among other things, thanks to Béres Pharmaceuticals Zrt., eMAG, Johnson & Johnson, Unilever Hungary, Volkswagen, Skoda, Ford, Toyota, Hungary. Thanks to Pharmacenter Hungary Kft., Roche, Kométa and other companies, and, as you said, thanks to the charities, be it the Catholic Charity, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, the Ecumenical Aid Organisation, the Reformed Charity Service or even the Baptist Charity Service. Thanks to volunteers, thousands of young people work on volunteer work, medical university students, technical college students and others, but also to artists and all those involved in the fight against the epidemic. That's the kind of cooperation you were faced with, unfortunately, my dear Parliament, the left. We don't thank them for anything. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is unbelievable!]] I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that we cannot accept, we cannot pass on anything even in the future, neither stolen electricity, nor smuggled cigarettes, nor gold coming out of Vienna Bank, stolen money. If they're gonna steal on the left, if they're gonna smuggle on the left. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are true Christians!]] At least do something that can be offered. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Christian and Conservative!]] Thank you again for your speech and for everyone's help, and the left should look in the mirror. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You are true Christians!]] and decide if you're in favour of the country or against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: They did not descend...]]
u2020-12-16-24	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, István Jakab, representative of Fidesz, Vice-President, asked for a pre-meeting speech. The title of his speech is:, 10 years in the spirit of national cooperation and solidarity, the 15 million grains of wheat programme of the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-12-16-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, at the time of advent, one feels that the mid-term rush, the struggle in any field, even in the political arena, will slow down a little, since Christmas is finally coming, the end of the year is coming. On the last day of the year, allow me to speak on a subject that may be important to all of us. Our sorrow over the 100th anniversary of Trianon may have touched the souls of all of us: grief over the loss of two thirds of the country and joy that a third of the mother countries were able to give faith and strength, to organize their economies, to reconstruct their institutions, to bring together the Hungarians of the entire Carpathian Basin, to give faith, to give strength and to help economic development. In the year of national integration, Hungarian farmers thought that they could also celebrate an anniversary, the anniversary that ten years ago, of their own free will, they created the 15 million wheat grain program of the bread of the Hungarians. This programme, I think, has started as a voluntary programme for all of us, which remains today, but only works with the help of farmers. Perhaps on the anniversary, let me give you a number: 10 tons of grain were collected in the first year by farmers in order to prepare, to bake the nation's bread, and to give the remaining amount as a donation to the needy. Ladies and gentlemen, It's been ten years. After ten years, I believe that the programme demonstrates its existence and its intention to collect more than a thousand tonnes of grain in 2020. [[10.10]] So in ten years, we've added a hundred times that amount. A hundred years on Trian, 100 times the amount; faith, strength, stamina and responsibility to each other. The program started at first only in the motherland, then extended to the entire Carpathian Basin [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then the whole diaspora. Today we can say that all programs close to the hearts of Hungarian people, where we can think together, responsible for each other, as a member of the nation. We sent over 300 packages of flour from the United States to the diaspora through Peru through Vienna to all the countries where Hungarians live, in order to mix the local flour and prepare the bread of Hungarians. The message of Hungarian farmers is clear: we are on the same bread, and we are jointly responsible for the fate of the nation. Dear Parliament, Let me give you some data. With 1100 tons of grain, we brought it to the people in need. I can tell you that this year, every single one of our donations has reached the finish line. This means that we have delivered our donations to over 80,000 children. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] especially Transcarpathia, where the need is really present every day. I must tell you that from Brother Csaba's orphans, through the children's home in Nagy Dobron, we strive to take care of those in need everywhere. We have over 5,000 donor hosts. This grain was picked up in sacks. We collected it with the help of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, the Magos volunteers and our village farmers. The mills ground him free [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And that's how we got him to the finish line. Thank you once again to all the donors for this wonderful work, and now allow me, on behalf of all my fellow hosts, to wish you a blessed holiday and a peaceful, successful, happy new year.
u2020-12-16-26	Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice-President James, for your peace and patience. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas will respond to what has been said.
u2020-12-16-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Hungarian agriculture has been particularly difficult for a year. Almost all the victims had to face some unexpected event. The coronavirus, early spring frosts, spring drought, early summer flood-like rain, African swine fever and avian influenza have all put farmers in a difficult situation. We owe them our gratitude, because in trying time, despite all the difficulties, they were able to endure, and in extraordinary circumstances they showed how strong domestic agriculture was. Regardless of what the agricultural year is, good or bad, we are responsible for those who live in a difficult fate. It is a noble act on the part of every donor farmer to offer a crop for charity, a small sacrifice to help others. The bread of the Hungarians is a selfless, helpful collaboration of the Hungarian farming community in the Carpathian Basin, a model example of the Hungarian collective. Experience shows that farmers are happy to donate, selflessly helping their fellow nations. The number of organizations receiving donations and donations increases within and beyond our borders almost year after year, but the strengthening of the social base is demonstrated not only by this fact, but also by the fact that the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Association has taken over the rights to carry out the program, and also by the Hungarians' Kenyere Foundation. The spirit of the movement has been fulfilled by the fact that even the Hungarians across the border are represented in the joint work. The programme is welcome to extend its own framework year after year, despite the fact that the production has been difficult due to weather conditions and the limitations related to the coronal virus. This year's results were once again a record in all areas after last year's outstanding success. In the year of national integration, the initiative of the Hungarians is already a true success story in the Carpathian Basin, which symbolizes the efforts made to preserve the nation and solidarity with each other. His success lies in Hungarian agriculture. Who knows that the whole year of hard-working grain not only helps you and your family to thrive, but also means the eating of thousands of Hungarian children across borders. Dear Parliament, The snow of Christmas, the advent period for the farming community has been serving rest and physical and spiritual preparation for the holidays and the following year for centuries. Over the centuries, a number of traditions and folk customs have developed, reflecting the peasant's attachment to land and faith. A good example is that on Luca's day we place wheat in a small pot, then put it under the Christmas tree, or decorate the Christmas table with it. Along with us, the grain now rests in the ground or in the granaries and prepares. According to tradition, in grain grains, life is present in the form of light, because until the wheat plough reaches it, it absorbs all the sunlight that hit the wheat field. From this light, a new life, the bread that feeds us, is born. So we look forward to birth during the Advent period, the bright birth of Jesus Christ, and so I wish you a very peaceful, merry Christmas and a successful new year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-16-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-12-16-29	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Tibor Bana, independent.
u2020-12-16-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that anyone who has not yet received the package needed to make the declaration of assets can still do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. Dear Parliament, It's coming up today... [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] Have a seat, fellow Members. [[Dr. László Keresztes to Lóránt:]] Mr. Team Leader, have a seat. The agenda for today's extraordinary meeting is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda and the duration of the meeting under the proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We must now decide on the proposal to amend the agenda. In view of the fact that, at the meeting on 14 December, Parliament adopted a report on the adoption of the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council constituting the Pact on Asylum and Migration, H/14335. The Government has initiated an extraordinary procedure for the discussion of this special meeting of the Parliament to be supplemented by the agenda of the H/14335. By deciding on a proposal for a decision to take it as the last item on the agenda in the line of decisions. [[10.20]] Who understands and agrees with all of this [[Defiance.]] vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons on your voting machine and tell them you're here. [[Attendance check.]] Thank you very much. There are 160 Members present, 39 Members absent. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/13663 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to increasing the competitiveness of the cinema industry will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13663/4. T/13663/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13663/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 1 against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13663/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes to one, with 32 abstentions. The 1995 LVII on water management follows. T/13659 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13659/7. T/13659/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. So I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13659/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I note that the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to one, with 21 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13659/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare that the Parliament will propose a single proposal with 143 votes in favour... [[There are 148 votes in favour on the display. For signal:]] By 148 votes to 9 with 9 abstentions. [[There are several in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yeah? Vice President Hiller? [[Dr. István Hiller standing up: I can't vote, Mr. President, my machine doesn't work!]] His computer's not working. And how did he vote? [[Dr. István Hiller: Yes!]] István Hiller voted in favour. Then I was right to say 149. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much. [[To Dr. István Hiller:]] Does it work? [[Dr. István Hiller says no.]] It's not working. Then, please, let me know, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much. Next up is T/13955. on vineyard and winery. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] T/13955/15. T/13955/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 8. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 8 is the motion of the Member of Ádám Steinmetz. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's amendment by 54 votes in favour, 111 against, with two abstentions... Mr Hiller's machine works? [[Dr. István Hiller nodds.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment proposal. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13955/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13955/18. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 134 votes in favour, 1 against and 30 abstentions. It follows that T/13954 on the amendment of certain laws necessary to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13954/6. T/13954/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13954/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 13 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13954/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 153 votes in favour, no votes against, with 13 abstentions. The 2011 CXCI on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws follows. T/13662 on the amendment of Act T/13662 to increase employment in line with the Economic Protection Action Plan Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13662/6. T/13662/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13662/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13662/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The T/13644 on the amendment of certain child protection and social legislation follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13644/5. T/13644/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13644/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes to six, with 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13644/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 150 votes to six, with 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following up will be the 2016 LXXIII on foreign representations and permanent foreign service. T/13661. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13661/5. T/13661/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13661/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and 17 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13661/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 37 against and 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13640/5. T/13640/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13640/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13640/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 164 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Following the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, T/13652 on the right of residence of citizens of the United Kingdom and their family members. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13652/5. T/13652/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.40]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13652/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept 13652/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/13672 on the provisions relating to the management of certain assets and amending certain laws relating to the management of assets and financial matters will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13672/6. T/13672/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House Rule 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Article 17, the Group of Dialogue initiated a separate vote on points 17 and 18 of the summary amendment proposal, as well as on point 19. First, we will decide on the points asked for a separate vote, and then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. Therefore, we are now deciding on the adoption of points 17 and 18 in substance, which have been asked for a separate vote. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13672/6. Point 17 and 18 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points asked for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 41 against and 14 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 19 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13672/6. Point 19 of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 116 votes in favour, 39 against and 14 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13672/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted further points of the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 33 against and 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13672/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes in favour, 47 against and six abstentions. T/13666 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13666/11. T/13666/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to Article 5 (4) of the Jobbik Group, amendments 5 and 6 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr Róbert Dudás. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 6 is also proposed by Mr Róbert Dudás. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13666/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 46 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13666/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 52 against and one abstention. Coming up next on the amendment of certain energy efficiency laws [[It's constant noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] T/13667. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13667/7. T/13667/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13667/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 15 against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13667/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 137 votes in favour, 16 against and 16 abstentions. [[10.50]] The national policy for spent fuel and radioactive waste management will be followed by 21/2015. H/13642. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/13642/7. H/13642/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/13642/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes to 26, with 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/13642/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 93 votes to 52, with 22 abstentions. Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. T/13646. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13646/6. T/13646/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Tibor Nunkovics. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes to 114, with 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13646/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 33 against and 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13646/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 115 votes in favour, 33 against and 21 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. T/13678 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13678/6. T/13678/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13678/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 16 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13678/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 16 against and 16 abstentions. Next up is T/13658 on the declaration of King's Hill in Cancer Field as a national memorial. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13658/6. T/13658/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13658/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13658/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/13674. on the amendment of certain laws containing administrative burdens for customers Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13674/4. T/13674/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13674/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, no votes against, with 42 abstentions. [[11.00]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13674/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 129 votes in favour, no votes against, with 40 abstentions. It follows that T/13670, on the simplification and electronicisation of civil status procedures and on the amendment of certain related laws, will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13670/7. and a summary report by T/13670/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13670/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13670/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes in favour, no votes against, with 24 abstentions. It follows that T/13671. on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the operation of the National Commercial Register System. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13671/4. T/13671/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13671/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 9 against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13671/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes against, 8 against and 16 abstentions. The year 2000 on the use of certain confiscated items in the public interest follows. T/13664. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13664/5. T/13664/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13664/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13664/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to the XXVII of 2020 on the support to be provided by the parliamentary group T/13928 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/13928. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 135 votes in favour, 3 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Before the final vote takes place, and then a two-minute break and order break, let me wish you all a merry Christmas! It follows up on the adoption of a report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council forming part of the Pact on Asylum and Migration, H/14335. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the motion for a resolution will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/14335. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 142 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. After a two-minute technical break, Vice-President János Latorcai will continue to chair the meeting. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] (Sunning: 11.10 11.14) Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.)
u2020-12-16-31	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for allowing us to discuss our next item on the agenda. We are now continuing our work with a general debate. I would like to draw your attention to compliance with the pandemic rules. Dear House, A joint general discussion of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2019 and the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/10297. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/13533. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I would like to ask President György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank of Hungary, to come to the pulpit as rapporteur. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. It's got a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-32	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the opportunity. It is a great honour for me and the entire Hungarian national banking community to report before this House on the management, operation and results of the Hungarian central bank in 2019; and, if I may say so, I would like to mention this more than interesting, special, dramatic year, 2020 and perhaps some sentences for the coming years. The Hungarian National Bank has managed effectively, effectively and successfully every year since 2013. This is relatively easy to measure for a central bank. If a central bank, in our case the Hungarian central bank, the Hungarian National Bank, has fulfilled its statutory tasks and mandate, then it has managed successfully and effectively. Well, Mr President, I must state that the National Bank of Hungary fulfilled all three legal mandates in 2019: it protected price stability, protected and maintained financial stability and effectively supported the government's economic policy. Price stability, i.e. maintaining the price level at a level of around 3 per cent, was met with an annual average inflation rate of 3.4 per cent in 2019. Of course, as citizens, we do not like inflation; we do not like prices to go higher. We prefer that they go lower, but I must tell you that beyond the fact that the mandate of the Hungarian National Bank and its first mandate is to achieve price stability, the Hungarian National Bank has achieved a very important result by keeping annual average inflation at around 3 per cent in 2019 at 3.4 per cent. If there is a moderate, sustainable, manageable inflation in a country, then there are savings, then there are investments and the functioning of the economy is sustainable. If there is fasting inflation, 5, 6, 7, 10 percent, there is no more dramatic development than that, so it has been recorded for many central banks around the world as the most important objective of central bank operations and as its task is to ensure price stability. So in Hungary, the Hungarian central bank and, of course, the whole business sector, the government and the families together, we have achieved a stable price level, a sustainable price level, which helps saves, investments and Hungary catch up. The fact that this is not an everyday achievement shows that, over such a long period of time in the European Union, we have met the criteria for price stability precisely from 2017. Thus, over such a long period of time and so precisely, at a level of around 3 per cent in this case, others have failed to ensure price stability, despite the fact that the European Central Bank and other European central banks, like us, have a price stability and medium-term inflation objective. It is a very big achievement, a very big achievement in economic history, and compared to the other EU Member States and the Hungarian National Bank with other EU central banks, this is a very positive, good result. Hungary's performance in 2019 is perhaps a decisive feature of the continuation of Hungary's catch-up to the average level of development in the European Union, in fact to Western Europe, the historically luckier Western Hemisphere in Europe. It continued, and between 2013 and 2019 we experienced a significant continuous growth turnaround, which became a catch-up turnaround, and between 2010 and 2019 we were more than 8 percent closer to the EU average, so Hungary reached a 74.2 percent level from 66 percent in 2010 to the end of 2019. I confess to you, 20-30 years ago, we would hardly have dreamed of achieving this level, and, of course, in the years of economic policy that went wrong after 2002, we hardly dreamed that after 2010, after a successful, effective fiscal consolidation, we could achieve a growth turn and then a catch-up turn, but we did, and this was a catch-up in 2019. Mr President, The priority mandate of the Hungarian National Bank is to ensure financial stability. In 2019, as we have seen and will see in previous years, especially in this special, dramatic year, the Hungarian financial system was stable, there was no unexpected, small or greater shock; we found a stable, sustainable financial system in Hungary in 2019. [[11.20]] This is also worth a lot, because let's remember that after 2010 Hungary's loan portfolio decreased by 5 percent every year for four years. This hardly meant a stable financial system, and then there were various dramatic events among financial institutions. It is therefore of great value that the Hungarian financial system was stable in 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, Overall, in 2019 the Hungarian National Bank, as we presented in detail in our annual report, worked successfully, managed effectively, achieved positive results, and thus contributed to Hungary's catching up with its effective operation. The system of the strategic alliance is as much a part of this success as possible. From 2013 onwards, the Hungarian National Bank concluded a strategic alliance with the government. This is recorded in our legislative mandate, as the third task and mandate of the Hungarian National Bank is to support and support economic policy and the economic policy of the government. But we have already made an alliance with the banking system and the whole financial system in 2013, as the successful success of the growth credit programme from summer 2013 until now proves that when the central bank and the banking system, in general, the financial system, comes out of very good things. If they work against each other, there will certainly not be an expansion of credit, a stable, sustainable financial system, and there will certainly not be any growth or catch-up. In our case, in the case of Hungary, the central bank's and government's association, the central bank's and banking system's association, through the banking system, the central bank's and the business sector's association, because with the credit programmes of the National Bank, the players in the business sector were a decisive factor in success. Mr President, I also have to say that every year is quite special, every historical phase, every economic history phase is quite special, so the 2013-2019 period was, perhaps let's say, seven good years were special. These seven good years, this sunny seven years, were closed in 2019. However, it is a warning sign that, although the Hungarian economy has achieved extraordinary catch-up results between 2013-19, we have made good use of the possibilities of the seven years, the seven sunny years, the global and European and regional economic activity, but some of us have made even better use of it, the Poles, the Romanians, the Estonians, perhaps the Baltics as a whole have done even better than the Hungarian economy. In fact, the Hungarian economy, although excellent performance in 2017-18-19, as economic growth and GDP growth showed 4.6 percent, increased gross domestic product by 4.6 percent in 2019 in Hungary, but some areas of the economy show slowing down from the third quarter of 2018. Slowing down, and therefore it is very important for us to preserve all the virtues of the long, sunny seven years between the 19th and 2013 years, to carry all its values further to the challenging period of the year that may be difficult to start with 2020, but we need to find many turns, many new answers and new solutions. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thus, the year 2019 closed the most successful decade of the hundred years after Trianon, the ten years between 2010-19, and ended the seven sun years between 2013-19, a positive period. Something new is starting, but it started so dramatically, and it was not expected, nor was it nice of the virus and the epidemic to come at us so dramatically in early 2020. In 2020, the Hungarian economy will experience at least three crises. There is an epidemic, we are in a health crisis, an economic downturn, for this year the Hungarian National Bank expects a decline of between 6 and 6.5 percent, which will be the fifth worst year of the last hundred years, if that is the fact, and of course there is an emotional, mental fear crisis within us, let us admit it. Together, the three crises shock the Hungarian economy and all of us, the Hungarian families, society and, of course, the whole business sector. But I must say that we do not see a crisis, a halt, a wavering, a confusion we do not see, and that is the stability of the financial system. There's no financial crisis. For a moment there was no financial disturbance at any point in the financial system. This is once again due to the successful balance and growth policy of the last ten years, due to the stable, strong functioning of the financial system, thanks to the strategic alliance of the government, the central bank and the banking system, but it is very important that, in contrast to the financial crisis in 2009, as opposed to the financial resolution obligation after 2010, there is now no financial crisis that is comprehensible, meat-cutting, to our bones. So the fourth crisis is not with us, and it is based on the results of the last ten years and on the 2020 Alliance that is working. [[11.30]] Why not? Because the government and the Hungarian National Bank, as well as the banking system as a whole, took a series of rapid, creative, courageous and effective steps to prevent knocking financial problems. Such was the immediate moratorium, which the Hungarian National Bank developed in consultation with the banking system. We handed it over to the government, and one night, the government decided immediately. The moratorium alone stabilized the financial situation of Hungarian businesses and families by about HUF 2000 billion. Such was the growth loan scheme . The growth loan programme! The re-launch of the business sector, which, let's face it, was crucial to ensure that tens of thousands of players in the business sector not only survive this stage financially, but also, through investments and improvements, establish the re-launch and jumping of the next phase. Approximately HUF 1200 billion will be spent by the end of the year in the "Renewal Loan Program"! It is a targeted, highly successful financial stability instrument. Similarly, this was our re-launched mortgage purchase, which stabilized the bank's resources in the long term for some HUF 300 billion. A very effective instrument has been the provision of covered credit to the banking system, with a value of more than HUF 2000 billion in covered loans to the banking sector, which has also stabilised the banking system and maintained the banking system's willingness to lend. The fact that we will report in Hungary at the end of the year in 2020 that, if not with the dynamics of previous years, but with the expansion of credit, it will mean that the motivation and willingness to lend to the banking system remained stable. Behind this, there is over HUF 2000 billion of covered credit on a special central bank program. Without it, that wouldn't have been possible. Of course, the growth bond scheme is also a very important contribution, with hundreds of billions of HUF flowing into the corporate bond market this year as well. It's a little different than the expansion loan program. Its construction, because it clearly already finances investments and improvements. So it finances the exits and, in particular, the investment in regional capital. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, The year 2020 is a dramatic year, despite the fact that we have remained on our feet and despite the success of our financial programmes, because the 100 years after Trianon up to 2020 is the fifth worst year in terms of economic downturn. There was worse, there was about 12 percent decline in 1991, and in the three years following that, economic growth reached a minus 0.3 average. So not only did the change in the system fall in one year because of its chosen, forced course, so because of liberal shock therapy, GDP did not just fall in 1991, but it reached a minus 0.3 per cent average for another three years. Similarly, in 1940 there was a 7 percent decline, and of course the economy grew by almost 3 percent over the average of three years, but there was a very large decline. In 2009, there was almost a 7 percent decline, and in the three years following that, the economy grew by 0.6 percent, to a very small extent. So it's worth looking at a relapsed year along with the next years, and that's how it's going to be very exciting for our next two or three years. Finally, we should expect a 6 to 6.5 percent decline in 2020. And, of course, it is very important what follows after the dramatic year 2020 in the next three years. We see that the National Bank of Hungary has made calculations, according to which gross domestic product expansion and GDP expansion are expected to be between 4 and 5 per cent in the next three years. So, although we have to record the fifth worst dramatic decline in the last hundred years in 2020, the next phase will be significantly better than the three years following the other four major setbacks. Why? Because the previous ten years were much better; because we successfully completed fiscal consolidation in 30 months after 2010 and restored balance; because we have found it, we have established the basis for growth and catching up. The success and results of the last ten years are the basis for the fifth biggest fall in a hundred years after the fall in 2020. However, a very nice, strong and sustainable growth phase can begin. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, 2021-22-23 can therefore be a period of growth. The foundations of this are in place, and the financial resources are available to Hungary. In the first place, the solution is always within, primarily domestic financial resources will support the recovery of growth, recovery and the new catch-up phase. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank achieved the stability of the financial system in 2020, it was able to start and continue its previous loan programmes by making a balance sheet turn, a reverse balance sheet turn compared to the period 2013-19. In 2013, the balance sheet level of the Hungarian National Bank was 40 percent compared to the gross domestic product at that time. That was really high. From there we reduced, we came down, and by the end of 2019 the balance sheet was 24 percent of the gross domestic product at that time. So we reduced it from 40 percent to 24 percent. What a good set of steps this was, as it created room for manoeuvre, was just revealed: in 2020, in one year, there was money and funding for programmes to address the dramatic economic consequences of the epidemic. Of course, there was a source for the loan programmes of the Hungarian National Bank, and there was a source for the banking system to buy sovereign debt. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank is also carrying out a purchase of sovereign debt in the second market of nearly HUF 1000 billion this year, and the banking system is buying sovereign debt of around HUF 2200 billion, behind which the central bank's covered loan source stands. I must tell you, therefore, that after a very favourable balance sheet reduction between 2013 and 19 we could now, in 2020, implement a also positive, effective and necessary balance sheet extension. We're gonna keep doing this. We are focusing on the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank has carried out a larger balance sheet expansion than the Hungarian central bank, and one of the largest sources of domestic growth finance in the coming years will be a source of credit through the expansion of the central bank's balance sheet. Finally, Mr President, Mr House, allow me also to say that the National Bank of Hungary and, therefore, at times, we are a little bit pinched, not just by a central bank, but by taking its name seriously: the central bank of Hungary, the national bank of Hungary and Hungary. [[11.40]] This means, of course, that it fulfils its three mandates: price stability, financial stability and the task of supporting economic policy, but it also tries to start the turnarounds in which a central bank can participate, such as the green turnaround. The Hungarian central bank has introduced a series of regulatory instruments to support greening, which will speed up Hungary's sustainability and greening. The same digital turnaround: the Hungarian National Bank, together with the participants of the banking system, introduced the immediate payment system in a strategic alliance, unique in the world. That's a five-second reference, but it's actually a one-second reference, and we're speeding up a digital revolution. Similarly, the Hungarian National Bank, with its consumer-friendly product family, whether in the case of housing loans or personal loans or in the case of insurance, has set off in a direction that makes it quite clear that the financial consumer is the first in the financial system; it is not even the central bank, it is not even the banking system, it is not even the government, but the financial consumer. Therefore, the consumer-friendly product family also represents a change of value. I also think it is very important that the Hungarian National Bank participates in the quality turnaround of the Hungarian higher education system as far as possible: we run joint education programmes with nine universities, of course we aim for cooperation in economic and financial fields; we have launched a scholarship of excellence, and more than a thousand excellent college and university students already participate in it. So we are also in favour of a qualitative turnaround, particularly for the higher education system. And, of course, the Hungarian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Student Credit Centre, the Fund Foundation, which now provides nearly half a million Hungarian primary school students and high school students with modern financial knowledge. I think that financial awareness, financial modern thinking, savings thinking, even the acquisition of stock exchange knowledge are part of the success of a country, and the Hungarian central bank is also involved in financing and helping the quality of the education system, in addition to supporting the digital turnaround, supporting the consumer-friendly turnaround and other activities. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, It's a dramatic year right behind us. Let me take one lesson here. There are, of course, a lot of health lessons and a lot of lifestyle lessons and a lot of social communication lessons, but allow me to learn one economic lesson here on the pulpit, before this House: it is very wise and very useful for a country to maintain the combined formula of balance and growth. A marriage of balance and growth, if one of them decomposes, will be easier to restore than a broken, broken, broken budget balance, current balance of payments, labour market imbalances would characterize the economy. It is a very high value in 2020 and the next decade that we have won the balance and growth campaign and match between 2010 and 2019. That is why we say, all the leaders and experts of the Hungarian National Bank, our professional position is clear: after the restoration of growth, after 2022, the balance of the Hungarian budget must be restored, because in the end, all debts, until they are repaid, remain debt, and in the end, all budget deficits will be debt. Don't be fooled by any external, foreign financial, money market siren voice. Debt remains debt, the less we take from abroad, the better we get. Thank you very much, and thank you, of course, for the legislative support of Parliament in 2020, as in previous years. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-16-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now speaking to Mr Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, the author of the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-16-34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear President of the Bank, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Assembly is present not only as a legislator in the Hungarian public law system, but also as a controller. In this capacity, it controls several independent entities, including the National Bank and its operations, in addition to the government's operations. Every year, the National Bank is obliged to report to the National Assembly on its activities, and the Hungarian National Bank has fulfilled its obligation in relation to the year 2019. At its meeting on 2 November 2020 the Economic Committee, which was responsible for tasks and powers, discussed the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2019, and listened to the oral report by György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank. The Committee has decided that, according to the MNB's report, H/13533. present a proposal for a resolution to this House, which, in the light of which, the Parliament must assess the activities of the Central Bank in the previous year, i.e. in 2019. The Committee concluded that the National Bank of Hungary B/10297. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and accounts for the year 2019 comply with the requirements of the law and provide a thorough and detailed account of the tasks, monetary policy and supervisory activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. The report also provides exhaustive information on the financial intermediary system and on the safe functioning of payment and securities settlement systems. The report also contains the audited balance sheet and profit and loss account of the Hungarian National Bank, as well as the related additional annexes. Dear House, As regards the report of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in 2019, it is important to mention that from March 2013 the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank managed efficiently and profitablely every year, including in 2019. With regard to the promotion of financial stability and economic growth, inflation has continuously developed in and near previous years, and the MNB's measures have helped to preserve the stability and long-term financial stability of the banking system. The measures taken contributed to maintaining financial stability and to maintaining the favourable lending processes of the banking system, moreover, the Hungarian National Bank was at the forefront of a number of measures in dampening the negative economic effects caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Since the outbreak, the MNB has provided the Hungarian economy with more than HUF 5000 billion of new resources. Dear Parliament, The report shows that the Hungarian National Bank also managed effectively because it fulfilled all three of its mandates. It fulfilled its mandate of price stability, as annual average inflation was 3.4 percent in 2019 and reached a 3 percent inflation target within the central bank tolerance band throughout the year. The MNB remains one of the few central banks that continuously fulfil its primary objective of maintaining price stability. In 2019 the dynamic growth of the Hungarian economy continued and GDP increased by 4.6 percent, to which a wide range of sectors contributed. It is also important to note that at the beginning of 2019 the MNB launched a new NHP Fix scheme for growth loans, whose primary objective was to improve the lending structure of SMEs. [[11.50]] The target design started with a HUF 1000 billion budget is the same as the NHP's previous phase in terms of its main parameters and method of execution. The programme-related loan and leasing contract was concluded at the end of the year of approximately HUF 400 billion, and the MNB launched its corporate bond purchase programme with a HUF 300 billion envelope on 1 July 2019, which was the growth bond programme. Dear House, It can be said that since 2013, interest expenditure on the budget in proportion to GDP has decreased by around 2,3 percentage points. In 2019 this means more than 1000 billion savings for the budget. Thus, since 2013, interest expenditure on government debt has decreased by more than HUF 3600 billion. The Financial Stability Council of the Hungarian National Bank has established a set of criteria for rated consumer-friendly housing loans, so transparent, simple and quick administration, affordable, fixed-rate housing loans have been put on the market. Their share of new bank housing loans reached 60% in 2019. The programme has played a significant role in increasing the proportion of housing loans with fixed interest rates beyond the year to 99 per cent by the end of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to mention the year 2020 for a few sentences, as the President of the National Bank of Hungary has mentioned, since this year is a major economic and financial history change in all aspects of the world, including in Hungary. The Hungarian National Bank, along with the government, has handled the complex crisis correctly, in my opinion. The complex crisis is clearly a health crisis, an epidemiological crisis, and a crisis in economic psychology. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since March 2013, the Hungarian National Bank has been effectively shaping the economic policy of Hungary, Hungary, and working effectively with the Hungarian government.The operation of the Hungarian National Bank also helps the Hungarian government to reduce the debt accumulated by socialist governments year after year, to increase employment and support the Hungarian families. On behalf of the Economic Committee and myself, I can say that in 2019 the Central Bank has performed the tasks entrusted to it exemplaryly and has contributed effectively, in cooperation with the government, to the expansion of Hungary's economic policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-16-35	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to present a position during the debate. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that Mr President had to leave because of his other official engagement, and Vice-President Barnabas Virág represents the National Bank of Hungary in the course of further discussion. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-36	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, One of the most important tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is to support the achievement of the results of economic policy and to promote these results. In the expoze we heard from President Matolcsy and from my colleague Gábor Varga, as rapporteur of the Economic Committee, and also from the report before us, it is clear that the Hungarian National Bank closed a very, very successful year of operation in 2019 and fulfilled its preliminary objectives. In my speech as Chief Speaker, allow me to address the year 2020 for a few thoughts, and I would like to briefly describe the opinion and position of the Fidesz faction in relation to the 2019 report. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the importance of effective cooperation between the central bank and the Hungarian government for the financial stability of the Hungarian economy and Hungary. The importance of effective cooperation and financial stability is even more appreciated in a situation that the whole world is experiencing in 2020. This year is a major economic history and financial history turnaround for every national economy in the world, and obviously this is the case for Hungary. In my view, the Hungarian National Bank, together with the government, has handled this rather complex situation correctly and well, as my fellow Member mentioned, which required the Hungarian economy to be a stable economy, not a bled, indebted, bankrupt economy, which unfortunately was left behind by socialist governments in 2010. However, it is also clear that the year 2020 has brought extraordinary difficulties and challenges and has interrupted the favourable growth trends and indicators of previous years in line with international trends. However, as we arrive at the end of the year, we can look ahead more and more optimisticly, because the vaccine against the coronal virus is on the horizon, and is almost within reach, and the situation is more economically advantageous than before, as the Hungarian government and the Hungarian National Bank have successfully defended themselves against the economic consequences of the epidemic. And speaking of the coronal virus, it is also appropriate to say that the Hungarian National Bank also took a number of measures to mitigate the negative economic effects caused by the epidemic. This is supported by the fact that since the outbreak, the MNB has provided the Hungarian economy with more than HUF 5000 billion of new resources. I would also point out here that the MNB's balance sheet growth was one of the largest in Europe, with the balance sheet growing from 24 per cent of GDP to 38 per cent of GDP. Successful defence was basically based on three pillars. One of these important pillars was the good state of the economy, as Hungary could face the epidemic with stable fundamentals and a strong starting economic situation. The economic policy followed over the last decade maintained Hungary's macroeconomic balance and reduced both external and internal vulnerability. From the Ticket Bank side, the MNB has narrowed its balance sheet in recent years, so we have the right room for manoeuvre and we continue to have a lasting response to the country's economic challenges. The other important pillar in the successful defence was the stability of the financial system, which Mr President has just talked about. After 2013, steps have successfully established the stability of the domestic financial system, the shock-resistant capacity of the banking system has steadily increased, while its lending activity in support of the real economy has grown in a healthy structure. The measures taken in recent years have also significantly reduced the vulnerability of domestic actors and Hungary. The third leg of the successful defense, I think, is due to speed, due to the rapid reaction of the Hungarian National Bank, because at the time of the outbreak, the Hungarian National Bank was able to take action quickly, through a series of coordinated and targeted steps to address the situation. Central bank measures have helped stabilise domestic money market processes and have been effective in supporting and supporting sustainable economic growth and its relaunch. To sum up, therefore, we can say in any way that the Hungarian National Bank has used significant forces to alleviate the damage caused by the epidemic and restore the economy. [[12.00]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As regards Magyar Nemzeti Bank's activities in 2019, it can be concluded that annual average inflation in 2019 was 3.4 percent, and that it was able to develop around the 3% inflation target throughout the year in the central bank tolerance band. At the beginning of the year, the consumer price index fluctuated around 3 per cent, but then we saw that inflation rose temporarily to the top third of the tolerance band in the spring months, mainly due to the increase in fuel prices, and then again to the 3 per cent target. In 2019 the dynamic expansion of the Hungarian economy continued, GDP increased by 4.6 percent, to which a wide range of sectors contributed. I think it is extremely important to point out that the Hungarian National Bank has been profitable since 2013, i.e. for exactly the eighth year. The MNB's results increased to HUF 254.7 billion in 2019 after a significant increase. Based on the decision of the Board of Directors of the MNB, the majority of the result was paid into the state central budget as a dividend of HUF 250 billion. With this step, the central bank has also contributed to the state's ability to increase its own room of manoeuvre in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. I also consider it important to point out that the various programmes launched by the central bank contribute greatly to the reduction of gross interest expenditure on the budget in 2019 by some 2,3 percentage points compared to 2013, which means savings of more than HUF 1000 billion. Overall, it is also clear that the supporting monetary conditions reported an interest saving of around HUF 3600 billion to the central budget in the period 2013-2019. On this basis, it is clear that the measures of the Hungarian National Bank have contributed significantly to reducing the country's external vulnerability. The foreign exchange ratio of central government debt decreased by around 2.7 percentage points to 17.3 percentage points in 2019. In 2019 they became almost exclusive between mortgage loans for a longer period of at least five years of interest fixed products. The expansion of the longer interest rate fixation also played a major role in the expansion of qualified consumer-friendly housing loans that could be required only by longer rate fixation, with a market share of around 70% by the end of 2019. In addition to rated consumer-friendly housing loans, in 2019 the Hungarian National Bank also developed a framework for qualified consumer-friendly home insurance, which allowed insurance companies to apply for this certification mark from 10 January 2020. The liquidity and financing position of the banking system remained stable in 2019 and the MNB requirements were met by banks with significant buffers. Household loans increased by almost 17 percent in an international comparison in 2019. However, it is very important to emphasise, as the President of the Central Bank has just done in his expo, that the expansion of lending has, at the same time, been achieved in a balanced structure. In the middle of the year, the immediately popular baby shower loan launched in the framework of the government's family protection action plan also had a major impact on lending processes. The associated borrowing was around HUF 470 billion by the end of the year, which accounts for about a third of the total second half of the household lending. Following an annual decline of almost 3 percentage points, the proportion of non-performing loans in the retail sector declined to 4.2 percent, mainly due to the cleaning activity of credit institutions, but the dynamically expanding credit portfolio also contributed to the reduction of the rate. Dear House, Dear Parliament, At the same time, it is important to note that companies' credit levels have increased by almost 14 percent in 2019, on a transaction basis, in a European and regional comparison. Companies have concluded new credit contracts with a value of approximately HUF 2800 billion by 9 percent compared to 2018 in the last year. The loans of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises increased by almost 15 percent last year, while the healthier structure of SME lending was supported by the MNB NHP Fix construction, which was introduced at the beginning of 2019, with a contract of nearly HUF 290 billion for credit institutions with social enterprises in 2019. If we look at the percentage of non-performing corporate loans, we can say that by the end of 2019 this indicator has decreased by 1.6 percentage points on an annual basis to 3.9 percent, especially here, as in retail loans, due to the cleaning activity of credit institutions and the dynamic expansion of the credit portfolio. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can all agree that if the finances of a country are in order, it will also make the situation easier for the people of Hungary, Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, despite all the difficulties in Hungary. In view of this, we can say that the Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks last year, fulfilled its expectations and objectives, and successfully carried out its activities in the interests of the Hungarian people. On behalf of myself and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, I would like to thank President György Matolcsy and the employees of the Hungarian National Bank for their successful and cooperative work, the results, the successes and the positive economic effects of which greatly contribute to Hungary's development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-16-37	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-38	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps this many workshops include one of my favourite legislative proposals and a period of discussion of the report, since the President of the Central Bank has a number of criticisms that he usually likes to go beyond the basic portfolio and to express himself on topics that are not the subject of a central bank's basic research within the profession. So this portfolio expansion, by the way, I do not view it as a distance, so it is close to me that, where appropriate, a central bank can express these issues. The problem is there when the base portfolio is pushed into the background, and, if necessary, we deal more with the often unjustified purchase of a piece of art or painting at the press level than with the basic activity, which, by the way, brings us closer to the Hungarian nugget, see the drop-off forint exchange rate. It can be a very long professional debate and it is worth continuing about what the central bank is responsible for, but I am distant about you because the central bank, when, let us say, the forint exchange rate fails, refers to the fact that the central bank does not have an exchange rate goal, here in Parliament it is the Act on the National Bank of Hungary that clearly defines and surrounds the area of action, scope and scope of the Hungarian National Bank, thus the dimension in which it can think. I don't agree with that either, because then why does the central bank think about demography, and I think it's right to think about demography. The fact is, however, that here are those pro-government fellow Members who are politely listening to these debates, giving keynote speeches, often expressing seedy thoughts, and I say this with a non-cynic edge, but they quietly assist in the fact that the central bank law that this Parliament has brought is what it is. If so, yes, the central bank should have a minimum exchange rate target. After all, I have listened to Mr President of the Central Bank's repeated exposé here in Parliament for many years, even if he is unfortunately not here now, and therefore I ask Mr Vice-President to take the suggestions, I beg you, as such a written question, and answer them, because we will be able to advance at least in relation to the debate next year if we get answers to them. So no one has spoken of the brutal, thousand-billion-dollar special tax due to the economic arrangement of Hungary over the past ten years, which essentially consists in letting the forint go off knowingly, by weakening the exchange rate they favour your allies, German car manufacturers and multi-businesses, and for the pampering of these multi-company companies, for their development of paradise conditions, in fact by allowing Hungarian citizens to take up the forint, a special tax is imposed on Hungarian citizens. [[Lőrinc Nacsa enters the Chamber and takes his place.]] How can it be defined that my fellow Member Nacsa understands what this is all about? Exactly so that anyone who buys imported products can watch, my fellow Member, here's a smartphone. [[He's showing it to me.]] "Everyone has one and gets one from the office, so anyone who buys one of these will pay the purchase price in HUF. If you are thinking in 360 forints compared to a normal, say, 300 forint, you can see that about 355-360 such exchange rates are faced, then this phone, my fellow Member, can be 30-40 thousand forints more expensive than a normally imagined forint price. [[12.10]] If you go to, say, Westend and buy yourself a gym shirt, a sweater, anything, then this difference can be up to two or three thousand forints compared to a normal forint price, since the indirect effect of a weak forint price is filtered into the price of every imported product. However, the gravity of the situation is really indicated by the fact that our retired compatriots, our minimum wage countrymen, when they go out to buy basic food, could do so in an ideal situation purely from domestic products. Since 2010, we have been discussing how good it would be to have domestic-produced basic foods available in the wider range. Even if we assume that this would not be the case, the effect of a weak forint price is also reflected in the price of domestic food. After all, the Hungarian company is often forced to buy spray material from abroad, to buy the machine from abroad to work on its land to process the food produced, so that the weak forint exchange rate has a price-raising effect even in the domestic production of basic foods, and this is a brutal effect when we talk about food types produced abroad. I'm a very big hunter in these cases, when you have to go to a supermarket or the market, and I'm going to find out what it is that's domestic, and I like it to be over 80% domestic in my basket. This poses serious challenges, since it is very difficult to manage its purely domestic acquisition in a metropolitan and urban environment. Unfortunately, we have not been able to move in this direction in ten years, even though you have agricultural professionals who are truly committed to this area, and with all due respect to their intentions; it is only the obsession that comes to mind. And what we see is that the brutal price-raising effect of the weak forint exchange rate, if we add all these effects, is a thousand billion-dollar scale, and this magnitude is paid annually by Hungarian citizens; taxpayers who have not asked for these negative externalities did not ask for any additional effects, did not ask for the brutal special tax nature of the forint exchange rate, because once again, I stress that this weak forint price is favourable to your strategic partners, German multi-enterprises and car manufacturers. These multi-company companies typically make a lot of untaxed profits from Hungary, in the form of public burdens, respect for the exception, but not so much, and it hurts me to leave it out of Mr. President of the Central Bank's exposé. If we're looking for proof of that, and I hope we can argue at the level of numbers today, then let's look at the final account. We were discussing it here in this Chamber, and several of my fellow Members were still here in person. We said that this closing statement shows that Hungarian citizens pay more than HUF 4,000 billion for VAT to the centre every year because of the brutal 27 percent EU record VAT level. 4,000 billion! In terms of personal income tax and other charges, there is an order of more than 2000 billion dollars. However, what we see is that corporate tax revenue is a little bit of a 300 billion, and we see that both the plan and the amount achieved start with a three. So 300 billion versus 4,000 billion and the amounts resulting from very serious retail payments. So what we see is that public burdens do not happen, the Hungarian population takes on much, 10, 15 times more of the burden than those who make very, very serious profits on the Hungarian market. Don't let anyone accuse Jobbik of multi-anti-avoidance, because there's no such thing. I believe in public burdens, and I believe that in an epidemiological emergency, we are burdening everyone in proportion to their capacity to carry a load, and we expect everyone to take part in the defense. Therefore, when Mr President of the Central Bank correctly stated at the level of the figures how the history of the bank tax, the banking sector special tax, transaction duty, he left out a few little things that were essentially passed on to consumers in their entirety. But it's also debateable, so it's possible to argue that 85 percent or 98 percent have been passed, it's a legitimate debate. However, I would like to say that, in parallel, Mr Matolcsy has left out of the expozee that, indeed, in the recent period when the epidemiological control took place, these banks have not paid into the common defence fund, only on paper. They paid 55 billion forints on paper, didn't they, to the defense fund, which in the coming years can be written off to zero. And we also see it confirm or deny, Mr Vice-President, when the MNB opens up a billion-dollar framework for those involved, and the banks can use it with a four-percent Mars, then this also corresponds to a 40 billion-dollar grant among friends, instead of actually paying that 55 billion into the budget and then not being able to write it down. So I don't want to embezzle the banks, but I do see that this 55 billion is not being paid for the epidemiological control, because it is being written down from the tax, and on the other hand, the financial transaction levy has been transferred to consumers in a declared, confessed manner to more than 200 billion dollars a year. We have a Hungarian entrepreneur, a small entrepreneur who received a letter from his bank going back to the April-May decision, Mr. Vice-President, where the financial institution describes to him that he will be billed for the last five months for the introduction of the financial transaction fee. This has been done in a way which goes against all legal requirements, which is unacceptable in democracy, in a financial, invaluable way from the point of view of consumer protection, or in a very valuable way. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: This is why the Hungarian National Bank performed.]] The point is, these companies have confessed to passing on the financial transaction fee. I ask where the very loud reactions of the Hungarian National Bank were on this issue. And I know that I have to address this to the legislator, and I don't want to be unfair to you, to you, but I can see that the representatives of the government are sitting quietly on this issue, even though 200 billion forints per year are unduly beaten on customers. Confirm or disprove me, Mr Vice President, but we will get back one of Europe's most expensive banking systems in return. I have examined the conditions for a zero-cost bank account, i.e. literally, in Britain, and I see that in the case of low-income banks, a very large number of banks are easily accessible with a zero structure. The lowest earners in Hungary pay as much as, let's say, a medium earner living in a Western European country, so I highly recommend that you pay attention to this, and take this, please, as a written question, I expect an answer to be introduced, to introduce a bank account structure that is available free of charge in respect of abnormally low earners and small pensioners, at least in respect of basic transactions, withdrawals, one- or two transfers per month. I cannot accept that we do not differ on this issue. You can charge me with those few thousand forints a month, because we get a very respectable fee, which I feel you shouldn't complain about a bank transaction fee or fee. However, in the case of a small pensioner, that 900-1200 or any number of forints would have a very serious place elsewhere, and I do not think that we can hold the debate on this issue at all. We can also talk about inflation, how the effects of this have emerged in the market for basic foods I have already mentioned. What we see is that, if we look at core inflation, it is undoubtedly possible to debate that we have remained in a defined percentage of space and in a dimension, and that more serious accommodations have occurred only in certain spheres and sectors. At the same time, once again, we are looking at the VAT changes, inflation or price changes in luxury yachts in inflation, but also in basic food. So an average comes out of which, if we average Mr. Vice President and me, a man with medium-short hair comes out, while I don't have any hair on my head. So it is worth taking care of these averages, and I would like to say this: it is worth looking at the basic food market separately from the fact that although I welcome the fact that the VAT rate for basic foods has decreased in a few percent of the product scope, let us not argue that an average shopping basket, say 10 percent of the products in it, has significantly reduced VAT, and that is good. My problem is that the scale of this is causing traders to swallow this VAT reduction more easily, and this does not always result in a price reduction. This is often done by my pro-government fellow Members not being able to interfere with free market conditions, I do not want to interfere, I want to force myself, I want a monitoring system that examines whether or not there are real market processes in the context of a dramatic, short-term price increase in a given kind of goods. These are measurable processes, you could see clearly, we could see clearly. We would not be discussing the VAT on basic foods in Parliament, but professional debate. That would be a huge step forward from the current state of affairs. I would also like to urge my fellow pro-government Members to be cautious about fetishizing GDP changes. I would very much like GDP growth to be outstanding in Hungary. You can see that in some cases the macro numbers are in order. So we would still have to look from above many times, but behind GDP growth there are typically over-beneficiary multi-enterprises with whom the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise sector is unable to compete either on productivity or at other levels. [[12.20]] Indeed, with an example I would support this again, and then either respond to it or not: the Government of Hungary has now concluded a $2 billion grant agreement with Audi, which will reimburse this company for its total year's closure, all the resulting damage, while unfortunately Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot achieve such benefits. What I wanted to get out of this is that companies producing a large proportion of the GDP increase do not, unfortunately, participate in public burdens in Hungary, pay as much corporate tax as would compensate the Hungarian budget for the amount of support it provides to these companies. Since the 2010 period, the volume of support for multinationals has clearly increased, so more and more public money is being given to them, and it has emerged that the profits of these companies are private profits, large private companies that are being taken out of the country, but if they suffer losses, as in the case of Audi now, you are adding them to the taxpayers. It's not a fair attitude, it's not a fair policy! We demand public burdens and clear answers on the part of the MNB's leadership to the questions that we raise. If we receive these, we can promise that we will continue to have a fair professional debate on the issues that have arisen. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-12-16-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for this report, which is obviously not only limited to 2019, because we can see the economic processes that are taking place in 2020. Therefore, I think that the report by President Matolcsy has rightly been extended to some extent this year, and he has said what we can expect this year, how it is worth dealing with this year, and what our opportunities are in the years ahead in order to strengthen Hungary from this difficult economic year in the coming years and to return to the career that, by the way, marked the Hungarian economy before 2020. I think that the Hungarian National Bank has a big role to play in this, and I will also outline in my speech why I think that the Hungarian National Bank has a great role in many aspects and in many areas. But let us have a few reactions and to understand the outlook, let us have contexts and comparisons as to what the Hungarian economy and the central bank's activities looked like earlier, and what this looks like now. I would not like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian's clothing and telephone advertisements here in Parliament, that he brings brands to the House. [[Attila Mesterházy: Terrible!]] At the same time, I would like to reject the fact that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Hungarian labour force, Hungarian businesses, in the area of tourism, in the area of accommodation and catering, in the field of agriculture or in the area of continuously expanding exports would not have a huge share of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and there would not be a strong Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, which will certainly contribute hard work to achieving such beautiful numbers in recent years. Of course, we will never argue that it is always necessary to strengthen again and again towards the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, but to deny their results, I think that it is not appropriate in the Parliament either. If we look at the crisis compared with the crisis, what the Hungarian economic situation was like in 2008-2009, what the central bank added to this, and how this is happening now, in the middle of the current financial and economic crisis in 2020, which is naturally caused by a pandemic, a coronal virus epidemic, and what the added value, value and added value of the central bank is, then it is clear that the theoretical, principleal and practical difference is also between us and our fellow Members on the other side of the horseshoe. We see that, in addition to the activities of former central bank president András Simor offshore, he was a pro-protective central bank president. Let's look at the state of the global crisis in 2008-2009. After all, before that, in 2007, when economists called that period a year of peace, an abundance of money, the general government deficit was still above 5%. Hungary had the second worst data in the world, the government deficit in war-torn Lebanon was higher than in Hungary, and this concerns the years before the crisis, so that left-wing representatives do not demand double standards. But how did the left-wing government, the Gyurcsány government, react to the crisis? With cuts, tax increases, the abolition of promised tax cuts, the abuse of families and businesses. When this crisis got out of hand, thanks to the activities of the central bank at the time, Hungary's families and Hungarian businesses were in the middle of foreign exchange lending, we must say that this was a very, very irresponsible policy until 2008, the crisis, but even more so in crisis management. When a weak country, a weak-legged economy is reached by a crisis such as that which took place in 2008, we can see precisely that this will result in the loss of families, the loss of businesses, and, by the way, all our financial indicators continue to deteriorate, leaving a vulnerable and restrictive country to inherit the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-tandem. I think that's what we have to stop every time. This is what will never come again, so that a country is so vulnerable, and political and economic governance can only think of tax increases and restrictions, this is the policy that we do not want it to return, and we do not want this kind of crisis management and this kind of management of the central bank to be not even mentioned in Hungary at the moment. If we look at the fact that the central bank between 2010 and 13, when the offshore knight you delegated was the head of the central bank, what he added to the growth of the Hungarian economy, he could not add much, but at the same time slow it down and slow it down. After all, it kept the base rate so high, while everyone else, the European Central Bank or even the Fed, continuously reduced the base rate, and even reduced the base rate to less than 1 percent between 2010-11-12, then, under the leadership of András Simor, the central bank's base rate was raised from 5.25 to 7 percent, only to curb the growth of the Hungarian economy and to curb the development potential of Hungarian businesses. What's this if it's not an irresponsible central bank management? This is why the 2013 turn was also important, that the central bank then put the entire resources, capacity, intellectual capital and other instruments at the disposal of the Hungarian National Bank in the service of competitiveness, growth of the Hungarian economy and stability. That's why I think it's a very lucky turn of events, because while András Simor was skyrocketing the base rate, he was alarming me that inflation would get out, and he didn't dare to cut the base rate. We remember that in 2014-15 there were years of deflation in Hungary, let alone inflation. So it also shows that what he said was neither technically sound nor that it was a conscious slowing down of the economic processes at that time. After 2013, thanks to the activities of the Hungarian economy, thanks to the government's economic policy, thanks to the Ministry of Finance and the Hungarian parliamentary majority, the Hungarian economy was able to set the Hungarian economy on a growing path together with Hungarian businesses, businesses and Hungarian employees, so that we could arrive there in 2019, when we all witnessed the economic record year, who were watching these processes. I think that Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people have felt the effects of this, and they have benefited from it, and a proper process has started. For this reason, it is completely different that the crisis has reached a strong Hungarian economy that is resistant to impact in 2020 and not a Hungary that has been bled out to the extreme, vulnerable and surrounded by austerity. So the starting point, as we achieve a crisis, is very, very different between 2007 and 2019, in which the central bank played a major role. If we look at the objectives of the central bank, we can see that these objectives have been met in recent years, that the central bank has been able to make a significant contribution to stability, to preserve the successes and goals and achievements of the tasks that it has otherwise set itself. I would also like to talk a little bit about financial consumer protection, because this is an important and perhaps unworthy task for the central bank. This is my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpat, who has set an example in the case of the retroactive transaction transfer, of course this is an outrageous thing. Of course, if you read the central bank's financial consumer protection reports, it will also reveal to you how many cases the central bank has launched proceedings and investigations for precisely such abuses, because these abuses are investigated every time, and these strong legs of financial consumer protection make it possible to initiate proceedings every time. I agree with you that this is an outrageous act and that banks in Hungary should not do this in relation to Hungarian consumers and financial consumers. But I think that is precisely why it is right that financial consumer protection with strong powers is currently in the current structure, which is in the central bank. [[12.30]] If we look at the main topics, such as digitalisation or green awareness, in the activities of the Central Bank, we have to say that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank also placed a great emphasis and focus on these areas in 2019. I would also like to thank the President and the Vice-President for the fact that in training, conferences, professional work and education around the House of the National Bank, there is also a kind of economic energy that contributes to economic strategy and thinking, where a central bank is finally planning not for the next year or for the next two years, but has a long-term vision of the Hungarian economy, Hungarian financial stability, and has a long-term vision of how we would like to put our economic future in place here in Hungary, and what long-term goals there are. Because I think it is much easier to make a decision here on a daily basis that those strategic goals are on our mind, those important perspective goals, the goals leading to Hungary's economic independence and strengthening, than when someone is trying to get through the head of the central bank overnight, and when he constantly looks at political aspects partly with President Simor, and partly with aspects that are contrary to Hungarian interests. That is why I think it is important to have the intellectual life, the reports, like the 440-point competitiveness publication published by the central bank this year, because in these documents, these materials, you can see the intellectual capital that leads to strategic, long-term thinking in the house of the central bank, as we can see in many times, either the Banking Federation, the Ministry of Finance, the ITM and many places in the economic strategy and economic development; this is what we can see in the coming period. 2019 was an economic record year for investments, for exports, and Hungary closed a very good economic year in 2019 as a basis for our confidence or confidence that the economic recovery will be able to start again next year, because a shock-resistant, strong and persistent Hungarian economy has been hit by the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. I consider financial awareness to be very important, and the President spoke of the Money Pointer in a sentence. Financial awareness, raising young people's financial awareness, even in primary school, but most of all in high school, is a priority and an important task ahead of us, in which I think we still have something to do together, so that young people's financial awareness is strengthened and high, and young people with financial awareness, as much financial awareness as possible, are out of school and are included in the world of finance, work, benefits, tax, investment and loans, so that we cannot once again create a foreign currency credit crisis that the Left has managed to create in the period 2002-2010. The process of digitalization was also mentioned, although little was said about it. I think that both the lack of cash, the reduction of cash as much as possible, the reduction of the cash stock of the Hungarian population in such a way that meaningful savings and investment opportunities are available, where they are otherwise confident in the system and feel safe about their own money, this is also a goal that I think is worth working together for in the coming period, because the challenge of cash deprivation and the digitalisation of finance is the years ahead. In the fourth industrial revolution, in the era of digitalisation, there can be no question of emphasis on this and of moving resources to succeed. Overall, I see that the activities of the central bank have been successful in 2019, that Parliament, the relevant legislation and its own objectives have been achieved, and this has contributed to the economic growth of Hungary, and I hope, and from the President's 2020 report, that the central bank also wants to play an active role in the eradication of the current economic crisis, so that companies, businesses, will be able to emerge from this crisis and come out stronger, come out of the crisis with new ideas and new investments, in which the central bank intends to play an active role. I support this, and I agree with that, and I wish you every success in this work. The current report will be supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-16-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's it!]] By weakening the forint, the money is actually stolen from people's pockets. That is what Viktor Orbán said during that period, which my fellow Member Nacsa was talking about most of the time, because as if we had listened to András Simor's report, then let us have some more data. At the beginning of 2019 there was 313 forints of euros, 336 forints of euros at the end of 2019, you remember the quote, and weak forints are wanted by weak people, said your Prime Minister, today you can buy it for 368 forints [[Attila Mesterházy: Jesus!]] a euro, therefore, by weakening the forint, the money is actually stolen from people's pockets, and only weak people can want weak forints, you said your Prime Minister, otherwise it is worth reaching back from time to time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How true! Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The things that the President of the Central Bank said about the pulpit were very important, and then he left the debate, and he left, and it wasn't any other way, so he didn't usually sit through these debates, but obviously the Vice-President will either answer or perhaps interpret our comments and questions, and then perhaps we should talk about what the President of the Central Bank didn't say; obviously, the things he said were also important, but what was it that he didn't tell us? First, why he didn't tell me. Because it seems so, and I understand my fellow Member Nacsa, why he is pleased with this long-term planning and why he is pleased that he is going to go out for the long-term plans, but he will surely follow the work from the record. [[Lőrinc Nacsa from the box indicates his presence.]] I understand why he is so pleased with long-term planning, and I am so pleased at every ministerial hearing, but also at the hearing of the President of the Central Bank at the committee meeting, but also from his current exposure that this government and this central bank know exactly what will happen in three or five years' time, but what will happen in three weeks' time, three months' time, they have no idea. Here there is a strategy for everything, a strategy for everyone, and yet we see that the forint is being devalued, yet we see that they could not keep the inflation target last year either, and they could not keep the inflation target this year either. Last year you said you wanted to maintain a 3% inflation target because you disagreed with the government because it said 2.7, but you don't usually agree with the government, they said they only reach the base rate when the 3% inflation target cannot be maintained. Compared to this, you have not touched the base rate in the last year, although there have been a total of four months when the 3% inflation target has been maintained, yet you have not touched the base rate. We believe that this is obviously wrong, even if that man... I do not accept it, because I do not accept that you have no exchange rate goal, because they always say that there is, but there is, they make a lot of money from it, but you always say that the only anchor they care about is inflation, which they do not seem to care about either. Not to mention that inflation broke records at the end of last year, not least at the beginning of this year, and I think that we should have taken action earlier in this period. Well, a little back to the exchange rate. We will always hear from you, Mr Vice-President, that the central bank does not have an exchange rate target. Every time they say that, we get it, but that doesn't make it true if they say it a lot. Well, we see you're making a lot of money out of this. President Matolcsy said at a committee meeting that only 208 billion forints of this money had been realised by the central bank, and that these were the money that had been used to emigrate to rather adventurous Matolcsy foundations, and that they had made quite adventurous deals there; I will also go out there. [[12.40]] With this wealth, you manage it in a way that, above all, is not fundamentally transparent. Before you answer that, think about the fact that we won the lawsuit that we had to publish the documents on the operation of the foundations, and they were in it to say that weird things were obviously. For example, it was these foundations that, along with the central bank, bought the old city hall of Buda twice. The fanfares that chant about what wonderful perspective plans there are, the Hungarian economy with the help and support of the central bank, is the particular screen behind which you hide these transactions. I have to tell you that the old city hall of Buda was bought in 2009, which is also included in the report, for HUF 8.7 billion. That could be argued, but unfortunately, something worse has happened, because you've already bought this once. They bought it once for HUF 1.9 billion in 2014, and one of your foundations even spent HUF 4 billion on it. Mr. Vice President, who needed it if we added it up quickly, that's 14 billion forints? Let's move on to the rest of the case. They said how important stability was and how much the growth loan programme contributed to the economic stability of 300 HUF and then 450 billion HUF later. In 2019, not everyone but the chosen ones. Let's see who wins. Opus Nyrt. We'll have a word about this later, otherwise it belongs to the empire of Lőrinc Mészáros, and earlier it belonged to Buda-Cash. I'm only saying this so that everyone can see the nice development route of how a collapsing brokerage company, which is owned by an open public limited company, suddenly becomes one of Hungary's most successful companies, by the way, from a central bank loan. Then Budapest Zrt. Owned by Appeninn Nyrt. We are talking about István Tiborcz and he also received HUF 10 billion from his interests. He must have been the biggest problem, not the other Hungarian SMEs. Duna Aszfalt, Szíyj László probably did not receive enough orders in 2019, so even the central bank paid him 15 billion. I think that sometimes it is worthwhile to be more selective and to get into less scandals when paying these loans, and I am telling you now that the next case should be an example of this. President Matolcsy's cousin founded a bank, which was the Bank of Growth and Credit. This had to reach under the arm three times in 2019, although it collapsed, despite which it failed, so instead the Investor Protection Fund and the OBA had to pay the people, but the depositors still lost HUF 2 billion. So much for stability, transparency, prudence. It is not enough to see the distant future, sometimes it is worth drawing the right conclusions from the near past. One more thing about prudence. You know, Mr. Vice President, not everyone failed at the bank of President Matolcsy's cousin, by the way? You know who didn't fail? President Matolcsy's two sons. For some reason, they were able to get the money out of there two weeks earlier. In fact, even the Matolcsy foundations somehow sensed that there was going to be trouble. I don't think they just felt it. They quickly withdrew from the bank of the Cousin of the central bank, and others were not allowed, because by then deposits could not be taken out of the Growth and Credit Bank, which was then properly collapsed. So I think that the proposals that the President of the Central Bank said were very interesting, but those which he did not tell us are even more talkative. What he told us was the seven sunny years, that's what we listened to. With regard to the seven sunny years, Mr Vice President, I suggest that we ask ourselves more questions. I understand that positive thinking is very important, because maybe it becomes a self-realizing prophecy, and that's how everyone will remember it, and in the future, it won't just be for the hooters, but these seven years weren't all so horribly sunny. Think of the einstand of private pension funds. You took people's money then, vaporized 3000 billion forints. The then Minister of Economy is the current President of the Central Bank. When I asked him how he felt about these two positions, he disagreed with himself and said that he had no business commenting on the measures taken by the former Minister of Economic Affairs. But he was the Minister of Economics. What do you think of this, Mr. Vice President? I would like to thank you if you would mention in your reply why it was necessary if there was so much stability and strength to einstall people's private pension funds. Then we'll ask the 13,000 evicted foreign exchange victims about these seven sunny years. Thirteen thousand families have been evicted. You are in strategic partnership with the government, so you must be aware of the agreement with the EBRD in which this government, your strategic partner, has undertaken not to push any barriers against eviction of Hungarian families. Is that right? The central bank thinks it's right for so many people to lose their apartments and not do anything? They are also part of the seven sunny years, I think we are talking about the victims of the DRB bank, the victims of Buda-Cash or even the victims of Quaestor, who, if we add them up, we are talking about 50-60 thousand families, and if we add up the sums, Mr. Vice President, we are talking about more money, 300-400 billion forints, which has evaporated hand-to-hand, and we still don't have the Quaestor fortune. This is your sunny seven years and how did my fellow Member Nacha put it? - consumer-friendly and a lot of consumer protection measures. Mr Vice-President, we have had a lot of debate when you were not a Vice-President, and we have always said that consumer protection is not about revealing these matters and then punishing those who have done wrong. Consumer protection is about preventing them. The central bank did not reveal these cases, the DRB bank, the Buda-Cash or the Quaestor, this central bank did not reveal anything. He fell on it. I haven't had the fortune since. Since then, those people have received as much money as the central bank, OBA and BEVA put into it. That's not consumer protection. By the way, it seems that when the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board was merged into the central bank, the central bank was not prepared for this. You can see a year later how much trouble this has turned into. We've heard about the halt and the bounce back. If, after bringing up the grievances of the past, which you have done nothing about, it is legitimate to look at the future with these criticisms, then it must be said that we have also asked the President of the Central Bank, Minister Palkovics, Minister Varga, what shape this current crisis will be. Everybody say it's U-shaped, V-shaped, W-shaped. To get a bounce back, the number of officials we've asked, they've said so many different kinds of answers. Now you expect a bounce back, Minister Palkovics does not expect a bounce back, but I say to you, if you have not participated or have not followed the work of the Economic Committee, and Minister Mihály Varga is also very afraid of the W. We already know that the central bank and the Ministry of Finance don't usually agree, and they usually have HUF 4000-5000 billion between the two estimates. There may be a difference of opinion, Mr. Vice President, but not that big. I think that hurrah optimism is basically not a good thing, at least not in terms of finance. There is one more thing that needs to be done here, and also to ensure a straight line of communication. In the spring, the central bank president said that it could even grow, talking about a 2-2.5 percent increase. When I asked him that at the Economic Committee meeting, he said he didn't want to join the hooters, he wanted to broadcast an optimistic picture. Today, this optimistic picture of the plus 2.5 percent, we heard it here, standing here on the pulpit, minus 6.5 percent silent. I think that this is a very big difference, and it has to be said that yesterday the government was criticised by the President of the Central Bank. I think that this is not about thought-out and strategic partnership work, but rather about preserving its own position and emphasising its own importance. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[12.50]]
u2020-12-16-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-12-16-44	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Vice President, I think it is very important that we talk, at least I think it is very important to talk about your accounts in substance, but it would have helped a lot if the Hungarian National Bank, whose activities are closely related to the Hungarian public finances, the budget, had been taken into account in this respect, and in taking into account a number of information that might arise, could have been discussed at a committee meeting. The political decision has been made not to do so, and you have decided to do so, and apparently not only on this subject but also on another subject, the pro-government representatives either do not come or do not put on the agenda the important issues that should otherwise be considered as relevant for the budget. I'm sorry about that. Now, not just for today, but for the future, I am trying not only to consider you, but also for other members of the government, at least for the current period, so that it is considered important that members of Parliament, who also perform control tasks, should deal with this in this respect and report on their activities in the relevant committees. I am connected here only because of what was in the last sentences of Mr.Szakács, because from this distance it is obvious that the right hand does not know what the left is doing, and a situation emerges that the words of the President of the Hungarian National Bank are a clear criticism of the government. It considers state spending, state investment insufficient, and believes that not everything has been done to prevent the decline of the Hungarian economy from falling to such an extent. However, at least one parentheses or a sub-section should be opened on the decline in the economy. You were already involved in the convergence programme in terms of the effects of the economic crisis adopted in the spring with three scenarios, and we were informed in this way. In these three scenarios it was obvious that there was a positive one, which is positive in the sense that it spoke of only a negative 3 percent decline, in contrast, the Hungarian National Bank spoke of growth, but now there is a negative 7 percent economic downturn in the convergence programme instead of negative 3 percent. I am condemning the government for practically building on the scenario of either you or the least dramatic economic downturn in the spring, and thinking that this would happen and take place in Hungary, and therefore neglecting the preparation and development of the support system, its political preparation and presentation as decision-making, that if we got into a much worse situation, then what would happen. Gentlemen, just as the government wasted the first months, it also wasted the summer months, thereby destroying the possibility that Hungary could, let's say, get out of this economic crisis with a better opportunity. Meanwhile, apparently, in the autumn, when the government is confronted with the fact that the Hungarian National Bank is essentially helping the budget by a package of HUF 4000 billion, it saves the budget from collapse, the daily collapse, and I think that the government was essentially irresponsible at a time when it helped people with only and only a very limited amount of support. As a result, what we have seen at international and even other research institutes, there has been a significant decline in consumption, a significant economic downturn, inflation in the sky, and a number of others. But unemployment must be mentioned, because while it is possible to entertain each other with what you see in the statistics, there is only a small problem, that those who have fallen out of the institutional system are no longer part of the system, and they do not show what is really wrong, at least for you. He shows it to us, because we do, we meet, and we observe the processes that you analyze in the same way, and of course you have much better opportunities in this regard, even by keeping information from the opposition, and by the way, if we work hard for it, then you can get it after a while. In conclusion, I believe that the activity of the Hungarian National Bank, which, starting from 2019 and after that year, has clearly resulted in what, in terms of its effects, this result cannot be accepted even with the sentence that the President did not want to join the hooters and that he could only plan on the basis of figures. The fact is that whatever they thought, whatever they planned, the worst version of the economic downturn occurred, and neither the Hungarian National Bank nor the government, and the Ministry of Finance, the leaders of economic policy, were prepared and ruined so much that Hungary's economic downturn was enormous. As a result, in fact, and the reason why I think it is justified to speak in the process of 2019-20-21 is because you are the only ones who give us the idea that I intend not only to provoke it by 2021, but you expect an economic growth of 3.5-6 percent. So, Mr Vice-President, in the meantime, the Ministry of Finance, let us put it mildly, thinks differently, makes enormous efforts to ensure that, in essence, the financing that is available from the point of view of public finances and of outstanding loans, therefore, foreign exchange loans have been issued and foreign exchange loans have been taken from the point of view of Hungary, which I do not consider to be a big problem, but compared to the political statements that you have made or have said, it is in stark contrast to that. That is why I think that the preparation and support that the Hungarian National Bank has provided to the government in this process, but I could say that it has provided Members in Parliament, whose job it is to think throughout the country because we can expect Fidesz and the government to think in one half of the country, no matter what happens to the rest of the country, from this point of view I think that you are actually in the position that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing. The situation has emerged now that this criticism, internal criticism, has an external voice, which has now appeared from this point of view. [[13.00]] But I must say to you, on the basis of what has been said in recent minutes, that Viktor Orbán is not responsible for this situation, but for the fact that the two together: György Matolcsy and Viktor Orbán are jointly responsible for abandoning the country in the crisis, and the vast majority of people are in a very, very vulnerable position by living up their reserves in the spring, and now they can only count on what you will send them. Mr. Vice President, Then, unfortunately, from now on, these people will not be in a better position, their Christmas will not be happy; you have managed to shape it this way. I'm sorry that you did, so I can't support your report. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, followed by Mr Mihály Witzmann, and I give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. Thank you. I wish you all a blessed, merry Christmas. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-12-16-46	Thank you very much for the floor. We wish you a blessed, merry Christmas, too, to Mr. President. Thank you for your work. I wanted to respond a little to Mr Cook, because he highlighted a piece of data from a lot of data, the euro exchange rate for 2008-2009 and 2020. So, in connection with then and now, tell you that the rate of foreign exchange loans in the country is then and now; average earnings are then and now; minimum wage is then and now; guaranteed wage minimum is then and now; economic growth is then and now; tax rates are then and now; general government deficit is then and now; government debt is then and now. You have forgotten these figures, honourable Member, that in each of these figures the current government is doing much better than your government, when taxes were raised, pressed and government debt was carried over 80 per cent, and then turned to the IMF. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Congressman Varju personally voted in favour of all of them, the taking of 13 months' pensions, the taking of 13 months' earnings, the raising of the lowest rate of personal income tax, Mr Varju voted in favour. So the honourable Member does not talk about these figures, how the Hungarian economy stood at the time, and how the Hungarian economy now stands, how the state wealth was sold, how they bled out the economy, what restrictions they operated on at the time. And, of course, I reject what Congressman Varju claims that no matter what happens to the others. Well, you're the ones who regularly abuse social groups here in Parliament, kick them, and otherwise forget about them. The Fidesz-KDNP government works for all Hungarian people, there is no distinction between opposition and pro-government voters and I do not know what terms. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] You're the ones who regularly go to social groups and support families, cross-borders, churches, church schools, students, their parents, and the others in whom you regularly kick. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel, turning to the representatives of the MSZP: Wish you a Merry Christmas...]] So I'm asking you to think a little bit more about it, and not blame us for thinking that we don't care what happens to the others. No matter what happens to you, they can only meet their foreign policy friends. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is the standard!]]
u2020-12-16-47	Good afternoon. What a cozy part I've come to, what moment of debate! A two-minute speech will be given to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-48	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman Nacsa is right, we must explain all the success stories that are important to us here. Among other things, we can read almost everywhere that Hungary is sure of two things: in European corruption measurements, and we are also podiumists in the title for the poorest country. [[To Nacsa Lőrinc:]] I know you're gonna nod, you're gonna shake your head if I tell you my own little story, which otherwise happened this weekend. An old lady in front of me at the market asked me how I would tell you, Congressman, that there was a shortage in Debrecen, and when she was told that there was no chicken, she just said, "I'm sorry, and she turned around without buying." We talked about weak forints, who are good for weak forints, and who are rich for them. And on the one hand, I am giving Z. Kárpá to my better friend, Dániel, and on the other hand I would say that he left out a very, very important group: Orbán and his group, who are good at weak forints. It must be good for Ripper; it must be good for the Garanchees; it must be good for the Tiborcz family, who draw the faggot from it. And, yes, it is very important that, while the HUF-euro rate was below HUF 270 in 2010, it now grazes 370 forints. I admit honestly that I am very impressed, but I will continue to do so in my next comment, which I have just experienced from Mr Matolcsy, that as an actor, he waved and went home. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To be continued.
u2020-12-16-49	Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2020-12-16-50	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I started my previous speech by saying that one of the most important tasks of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is, among other things, to help the functioning of the government achieve and support results in economic policy. It is therefore understandable that my fellow opposition Members are also dealing with economic policy issues, but I still feel that they are trying to overdramatize the importance of economic policy in the context of today's agenda, but it is also understandable that if this is already raised, it is worth answering briefly. One thing is forgotten: in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, you do not do the international comparison, as opposed to the fact that if we remember the 2008-2009 crisis, which is emerging under their governance, then the economic and financial crisis is not very, very hard on the countries, as it is now, because it is a general concern for everyone, but we were talking specifically about Greece and Hungary, which want to go bankrupt prematurely. And now it is a general hit on the economies of all countries, so please don't forget this, and otherwise, either in terms of employment, unemployment, public debt, growth of competitiveness or ratings made by such strict credit rating agencies as we did at the time. The exchange rate was also mentioned, and this was also done in the Economic Committee on the part of the opposition. At that time, President György Matolcsy replied, indeed for the many times: that there is no exchange rate target for the central bank, and he set two examples. One was that in the 1990s, the Hungarian National Bank announced its exchange rate target. Then, very quickly, international financial circles forced him not to have it. Another example was a British example when the British Prime Minister, who had been taught a lesson by an investor of Hungarian origin, told the British Prime Minister what their exchange rate goal was. The result was that this Hungarian-born investor won £1 billion on that little thing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That the government then dared to say so. Only one sentence, Mr President: the international financial world, the fact is that it is so much stronger than the central banks, especially the smaller central banks, that I think it would be a strategic mistake if the central bank kept talking about exchange rate targets here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]]
u2020-12-16-51	Congressman László Kács, MSZP.
u2020-12-16-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, My fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, I also say that the central bank does not talk about this, but it still does, because it makes a lot of money. He makes a lot of money on the exchange rate differential, hundreds of billions that go out into the adventurous foundation and even more adventurous running Matolcsy foundations. To my colleague Nacsa: you know, there were no evictions at the time, then there were no need to cut off tens of thousands of families on the street, because the then government did not conclude an agreement with the EBRD on the basis of which evictions could not be stopped. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't be ridiculous...]] You introduced 24 new taxes at the time, and you may remember that the tax return of the Hungarians should have been married to a beer mat. Well, as far as we're concerned, it didn't make much of a difference. [[Intercom from the benches of the ruling parties: You don't have to...]] I will say to my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, that Greece and bankruptcy and Hungary have cost Hungarians very much in 2011. Don't go down that road. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Lajos Kósa...]] 'Cause then I was able to start devaluing the forint. Once again, the weaker forint is clearly against the interests of the people. The weaker forint means the weaker state, and only the weak people can want the weaker forint, said your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. In 2019 there was 313 forints at the beginning of the year, at the end of the year it was 336 forints for the euro, and today it is 368 forints for the euro. I think they're gonna find the part about you guys. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-16-53	Thank you very much. In a two-minute circle, a faction can only speak once. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I know.]] I know Congressman Nacsa knows that, and I can give you the opportunity in the next round. [[13.10]] And now, as a pre-notified speaker, it will be Mr Attila Mesterházy. I see that the Member has asked for a two-minute opportunity, of course he will also receive it, but this speech can now be a longer speech announced in advance. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-54	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to state, for the record, that Mr Matolcsy does not, as usual, wait for the debate and does not want to know how the representatives and opposition representatives of the Hungarian Parliament feel about his performance. This is not new, because, as my colleague Varju has already said, we have invited Mr Matolcsy to the Committee on Budgets several times to give an account of such matters, to provide information on the various measures and steps of the Hungarian National Bank. In all cases, he refused to participate. In most cases, I look at my colleague Varju, if all is true, even without a sign. [[László Varju agrees to nod.]] So they didn't even write back that they didn't want to do anything with the Hungarian Budget Committee. [[For signal:]] This year, as I hear it from my fellow Member, he tells me that this has happened six times this year. I would like you to tell your boss that this is unacceptable, unprecedented, to put it this way. Earlier, the President of the National Bank was obliged to appear, as the Committee on Budgets had such tasks and audit tasks. To put it simply and professionally, you neutered the Committee on Budgets and transferred all this type of driver's license to the Committee on Economics. There is only one reason why Erik Bánki leads the Economic Committee as a Fidesz representative, so he probably doesn't get too difficult questions, while the Committee on Budgets always has opposition leadership under the law. This made sense when the Committee on Budgets had a real monitoring role. Today, this committee has a very narrow margin of manoeuvre. This also shows what you think of parliamentary democracy. So this fully fits in with what you do in other areas in this country. In English, we'd love for Mr. Matolcsy to stay. It is true that there was a problem once when he replied, perhaps once he stayed in a debate, and then he said something that he had to explain, so that he might want to avoid these mistakes, that he would just reveal and then leave the Hungarian Parliament to argue with himself, as the king would do. I was very pleased that in the debate Mr Matolcsy started his presentation by talking about everything from 2010 to 2020, so he did not insist on the 2019 report. I think it also gave its tone to this debate, and then the Fidesz MEPs also talked about the period before 2019 and the period after that, so I think it is right that the opposition should also respond both before 19 and after 19. It is quite clear that Mr Matolcsy has not been stingy about self-praising statements. There was every seven-day year here, and that since Trianon it was the most successful period that could only be observed in Hungarian history. I think the Prime Minister once told me that self-gratification stinks. It is here too, so it smells. I think that Mr Matolcsy, perhaps to put it mildly, was also overly expressive, as in many cases, when he was looking for the red mark on the buttocks of babies to find joint strategic cooperation with Japan in one case earlier. But speaking of strategic cooperation because I mentioned it, it is interesting that he talks about what a fantastic strategic partnership Mr Matolcsy has with the government. I would prefer to call her a servant, but it is a fact and a fact that this strategic partnership manifests itself in the constant criticism of Minister Varga and therefore continues to hold debates in the public domain. This certainly does not help the management of economic policy if the President of the National Bank makes a prestige issue of things and criticizes the Minister of Economy from a vanity issue, whether it is the euro, or some new money from Eurasian that he wanted to introduce, Matolcsy, or, for example, that he criticizes the entire government measure, because in his recent report on competitiveness, the Hungarian National Bank, in a correct way, we praised him at a press conference with my fellow Member Szakács, once in his life, honestly described the terrible situation of the education system, the terrible and tragic situation of the health system in Hungary. So, apparently, sometimes experts there dare to write the truth, and even at the end it will appear, and it is true, and the opposition will always agree with that, which is what our comments say, that in the education and health systems, we would certainly need serious improvements in order to increase Hungary's competitiveness. The other aspect that I would like to mention in the debate is that we see this Matolcsy career in a completely different way, or that I should like to say how it is a way of life and results, because it seems a bit like it was him, as my fellow Members have said, who took their private pension fund savings from the people, and then received the position of President of the Hungarian National Bank as a reward, but from then on he is also very slavish and serving the interests of Fidesz. Two indicators are certainly true of his driving style and activity: one is to serve the interests of the oligarchs, the interests of the fidesz oligarchs. Several times in the debate, it was said that everyone received such assistance, support or information from the Hungarian National Bank, because in a magical way, looking into a glass ball, certain companies and certain persons avoided certain collapses by seeing the future, and therefore did not lose control or, where appropriate, a financial complication that occurred, from the other side, they obtain funds, loans that would certainly relieve these people of competition. In Hungarian, it finances the fideszes holdyard, one of its tasks, as I see it, is the President of the National Bank. The other thing is that he has fulfilled the Fidesz family policy, which he must always be supplemented by a word that he is a family-friendly government, because apparently everyone who is related to Matolcsy has benefited in the past period since the President of the Hungarian National Bank, but not only in places under the responsibility or control of the Hungarian National Bank, but also in the economy, in the trades, in many places, the family members have become very successful. I trust that the family is not so big, because it has to be paid in a lot of money to Hungarian voters and taxpayers. So it is right and good that this kind of practice should be completed by the President of the Central Bank and not by giving his own family members different chances and opportunities from taxpayers' forints. The other thing is that we're also talking about who's being helped by the exchange rate change. One was left out by my colleague from DK: he is also helping multinational companies, and I would like to draw your attention to my fellow Member Witzmann, if he were here in this Chamber, that Matolcsy has spoken several times about the fact that he believes that the best euro exchange rate would be around 350 forints, and he has done so many years ago. At the time, the economic operators were a bit terrified that this HUF 350 exchange rate would be an exaggeration, however much Matolcsy thought it would help exports, and then, after a few years, the Hungarian economic policy, the central bank, managed to achieve that the euro exchange rate was now also around HUF 368, and it is quite clear that this is particularly good for multinational companies, because the wage growth that they have to give to employees is simply fading away, for example. So you can see that it's just a matter of government saying that they're helping small entrepreneurs and that multinational companies are being relegated. Not at all, the largest support in Hungary is given to multinational companies, and they also receive the biggest discounts. I think, therefore, and because of the arguments that my fellow Members have made, it is in no way acceptable to weigh or claim, or the announcement of results that Mr Matolcsy said in his Expo that this is a fantastic success period, and his performance is indeed leading to heaven. We think that a lot of money is being wasted, a lot of meaningless economic decisions are being made. [[13.20]] And, really, we pray ourselves that Mr. Matolcsy tells us what to do on the tens of thousands of days, because then that decision will be much more powerful and that we should avoid certain numbers, because according to esoteric it is not good. I trust that there are correct and good esoteric advisors to the President of the Central Bank, and that they will pay well to make decisions at the right time, with correct numbers and serial numbers, because we will certainly serve the Hungarian economy better. There's only one better thing to do if the president of the central bank didn't deal with this kind of bullshit. Therefore, the MSZP faction will not support this report either. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-55	Thank you very much. The speeches by Members seeking a normal word will follow. Zoltán Varga, representative of the Democratic Coalition, may be the first to speak. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The thing is, for the first time in my life, I've had the pleasure of seeing the President of the Central Bank. I was very shocked by the way he stepped up to the pulpit with his incredible acting qualities, and then, as a star actor, he waved a little, just didn't throw kisses, and went home. He went home to the billionaire's MNB headquarters. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He doesn't live there! Dr. László Kács: Well, that's it!]] Or the billionaire's own house, one of the Rippl-Rónai paintings; he went home to one of the art treasures to which Mr Matolcsy lost approximately HUF 1.5 billion in the last two quarters of 2020. [[Nacsa Lárinc: No, you sold it, he took it back!]] We know from your report that there have been seven wonderful, sunny good years for the country, but 2020 is a dramatic year. And Mr. Matolcsy, in this dramatic year, when Aunt Gretel doesn't get a chicken tail in front of me on the market and goes home hungry, he scatters billions of paintings that will decorate his own office or the hallway in the office. And I would really say that Mr Matolcsy is an excellent performer, probably a very good actor as well. For example, I would have liked to have had his name on the screens of the movie Glass Tiger somewhere in the main place, because he belongs there. Just not here. The biggest problem is that a little bit, when you listen to these reports, when you paint some incredible pink fog and dreams, what a success story this country is in financial stability, and it's already the last ten years, and then you announce that there's a national death this year, and we know that billions are being beaten to a pointless, self-serving pass while you remember in your mind that it's probably some sort of Hidden Book. I don't know, do you have the 14-carat car? When the main character creates in the middle of the desert, somewhere on the edge of nothing and something, the city of Igori, which serves only to steal huge money from it, and to make a station for the drunken, crazy station chief, which has only one megaphone and a pair of 20 meters of rails, and announces that the train will come in the morning and evening. Well, I just felt a little bit like it. Someone gets up on the bench, announces everything's okay, waves a little bit, throws kisses and goes home. Well, I'm sorry, it's not a prudent policy. At least I don't think so. Yesterday I was so lucky, and I watched György Matolcsy's press conference, where he actually wrote and criticized the government in a very clear and simple way. [[Nacsa Lawrence: So what's the problem?]] It was very strange in this story that he said they had two assumptions that weren't met. One is that the plague will not have a second wave. Now, this prerogative was probably also rooted in the head of the dear leader Viktor Orbán, because apparently in the summer it was more important to control the decks of yachts than to settle the situation of hospitals and health care. The second is the assumption of György Matolcsy, which, unfortunately, cannot be answered now, that the government will be able to boost both public investment and community consumption. Mr Matolcsy explained here that, unfortunately, he was disappointed in this, because this failed. It would've been better if you'd come down to Debrecen, because we would've told him right away that this wasn't gonna work, because they're not gonna take any action. And obviously here, Mr Matolcsy, I cannot say that he is simply trying to ensure his own performance as an actor or simply his survival in some way, he said that, in fact, the Hungarian government is responsible for much of the economic downturn, and that in the field of housing policy there has been a malpractice, and what he said here is that debt remains debt. I just don't know what kind of relationship Mr Matolcsy has with Viktor Orbán, because it seems that Matolcsy and Orbán simply don't talk to each other, which I understand, let's say, humanly, but technically, politically, this is a drama. Because if he had told him that he was a kind Prime Minister, that debt would remain debt, even if we had transferred it with coloured national-color straps, and the Chinese, the Russians, the Arabs, God knows who else we're picking it up from, and we don't call it debt, but something else, then maybe the country would be ahead. But it didn't work. And that's the success story? Remember, in 2012, György Matolcsy said it was a fairy tale. Part of this story is true, which remains now, I am personally the one who can personally confirm that what we have heard here from György Matolcsy about the pulpit is a fairy tale, a great tale. And unfortunately, the consequences of this story, the bitter glass of Hungarian society, Aunt Gretel in front of me in the market in Debrecen, will be theirs, and we will drink it out. But I would also remind György Matolcsy that despite his acting and running away, he doesn't listen to the debate, he doesn't want to hear anything, he doesn't want to see anything, he doesn't want to sit in among the billionaire's paintings he bought with our money, and he orders statues for 600 million forints. Get ready, György Matolcsy, this moment is coming! Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-57	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, is next. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-58	Mr President, Dear House, I am always surprised at the performance of my fellow pro-government Members when they bring in production reports of such quality to us. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Facts!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: Facts!]] the economic policy of the last ten years, which is quite unworthy of the standards required by the palace. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Facts!) So when we talk about sovereign debt management, my fellow Member Nacsa, you regularly tell me how much you have reduced Hungary's burden of public debt. The fact is that in 2010, you took over the government with a debt of twenty thousand billion dollars. How much is this, my fellow Member? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 32!]] He's over 32, isn't he? From 20,000 to over 32. And the thing is, making this look like a drop seems like a pretty brutal slide. I understand and accept, Mr Vice-President, that they are trying to address the GDP ratio. On the one hand, I recognise that, in part, the international markets take this into account, and they follow it strongly, there is no debate between us, because this is a professional issue, but it is sovereign debt management in itself that the Orbán government could not do anything, spit out or swallow the mass of public debt. The fact is that when I became a Member of Parliament in 2010 and prepared for the first budget debate, I looked at the draft how much Hungary pays for its sovereign debt burden. My fellow Member, I found that at that time I recall that the annual burden was about $1,250 billion. This is where we are now compared, of course, to the period before 2010, and I have many criticisms as to how many there are or more in terms of the period since, since, in the budgets ahead, closing accounts, there are 900 billion in the order of 1000 billion in the amount of public debt to repay interest charges. [[13.30]] Don't slide! At least be honest with yourselves. When you look in that mirror, at least open up a little bit there and don't fool yourself when the country has paid a thousand billion dollars each year for ten years. If we add it up and see what could have been created from the 10,000 billion in Hungary, then at least it turns out that you have no idea of changing sovereign debt management, that you have proven to be incompetent at least to manage the government debt management methodology or to come up with a new idea. In the first years, they were still trying, and let's not discuss this, from 2010 to around 2013. Many of their state ministers said that the Hungarian economy will grow very quickly and grow so quickly that it will grow so quickly that it will outgrow the public debt in your communications panel at that time, this annual interest rate burden will continue to decrease, and in the end it will become so micro-level that we will not even notice it in budget planning. But, I beg you, from 20,000, the debt has risen to well over 30,000 billion, so you're the mass! In the meantime, with the percentage rate, of course, magic can be done, and it is good to keep it at a level, but to say that Hungary has outgrown it, whether it has exceeded it or managed it differently, the whole thing is simply a slip. In this case, if you were honest, you would say that you have achieved so much in ten years that this debt mass has remained about a fixed order of magnitude, that you are burdening all budgets as a ballast, and that every year you are taking away about five, i.e. five leases of development opportunities from Hungary. We also agree that sometimes disgusting economic policy processes have led to the accumulation of public debt. By the way, I am a great critic of spontaneous privatisation, so for decades, we see that a large part of the national wealth has been expended. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Well, that's it!]] Not only did the country produce debt, produce debt, and the governments that had been in office for ten years could not change the management of this government debt. This is the strict flow chart, and since then, governments that have been Regent for ten years have lived up to the rest of national wealth, privatized and mastered it in narrow oligarchacles. It should also be said, for the sake of honesty, that from an economic policy point of view, the 21st century has not yet arrived. The Fidesz-KDNP. So when ideas and ideas that are significantly more modern and substantially more recent from György Matolcsy come to light than in the government's toolbox, we have to say that there is a roaring gap between you, but the Matolcsy package also has amazing overruns and wild rides, there are also very professional and very well-founded ideas that this government does not implement properly, and there is a bottlenecks that it achieves. It's like Nacsa, my fellow Member, what we talk about. I am talking about demography because the President of the Central Bank has done so in the previous years when he targeted a 110 000 year birth number, and I wish that could be a realistic goal and not a category of science fiction. The situation here on the demographic front is that the same government's attitude. He talks about it, it seems important to him that he believes that it may be important for you, even in person, although it was not for Fidesz-KDNP until 2015, and then we look at the results, and we see that they are giving up all social groups, so they are excluded from the basic circle of support, for whom the number of child blessings could otherwise increase, and then they are surprised that the results are coming and there is stagnation or decline in one place. You are here to tell us that, compared to last year, you have found a month where the number of live births has increased by 5.5 percent, and that is good; let us agree that this is good. They forget to add that they chose a very bad period of a terribly low base year, and then they Googled the best month this year. Of course, there is a difference between the two, and it is glad that there is, because it is good that more children have been born, but let us not call it a trend turnaround! And why I referred to my colleague Nacha? KDNP has an excellent, brilliant book of studies, and our future is the title of the child, and I have turned it over several times myself. Your 200 experts have written this study book, and it contains ten very good, brilliant population proposals. Guess how many of the ten proposals that KDNP experts have developed have been submitted by KDNP. Zero, fellow Member. Zero! [[Attila Mesterházy: Unbelievable!]] There are proposals in your expert network that could change the demographic low-flying in Hungary, slow down the crash, perhaps reach a decade-long horizon to at least stagnate, and then perhaps also make Hungary move towards growth. According to you, KDNP experts, I do not say that in the study book "Our Future for the Child" the current live birth number assumes a 6.5 million Hungary over several decades, so as many are born now, we will live in Hungary in 30-40 years or a little later 6.5 million people. You wrote it on paper, your people, and you're right. This is when a national consensus should be established and the György Matolcsy who talks about 110,000 living births and examines the possibility that, in order to succeed, a mother might have to give birth to up to four children on average; obviously, among today's realities, this is still a category of political science fiction. But what we could definitely look at is that if these KDNP experts describe that it could help the situation if mothers were to receive full personal income tax exemption for three born children, then they wouldn't play the political sorceress like you did. They looked at how much this would cost, wow, that would be a lot, so let's tell these four kids that we're giving the four-year-olds a discount. And yet, my fellow Members have made the mistake of announcing the idea of a three-year-old mother's absence, and the Prime Minister, too, I recall, has gone ahead with this, and when the proposal came here, only a proposal for four children with a much narrower demographic cohort was presented. In the same way: you should not necessarily support the purchase of new apartments in the residential park with 10 million and 20 million, not necessarily the purchase of new cars with 15 million, but also the purchase of used cars with the right technical parameters in typical Hungarian living conditions, the goal of creating a young home with a view to getting out of the apartment. This is what we are talking about, that there would be an opportunity, that there would be room for manoeuvre, but rather, it is the political spectacle bakery, where a proposal that does not cost too much, which affects not too many people can be put out, in the middle of the year it can be shown many times, and it can be justified by the government's action, while the number of live births follows a Hungary of 6.5 million. This is also what we see in the area of GDP fetishization, where we have often said that the volume of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that my fellow Member Nacsa is talking about does not appear. If it were to appear, it would be very good, and I would like it to be connected to the international production value chain at a higher level, let's say, in the case of an Audi, the supplier's net should have a much higher added value than it currently contains, but we do not see it coming back in numbers. What we see is that the last hundred years since Trianon have been the most successful decade to call this pure cynicism, and I claim that you have no right to do so. The fact is that if they have also contributed to the fragmentation of GDP produced by multinationals by means of economic policy, and perhaps the increase in GDP alone can be detected in a ten-year perspective, and this is a good thing, but this has been achieved by a chemically pure neoliberal economic policy that has caused an amazing social cataclysm. There is no other government that has contributed to the unattended eviction of 13,000 of our countrymen, and there is no other government that would have given up on net social groups in such a cruel, ruthless, neolibsi way. Your strategic partners, the German car manufacturers, I understand they're giving you the recipe of how to please them, how to pamper them. Your other strategic partners, members of the Banking Association, have also given you a sheet music in February 2015, in English on the government's website, that it is not possible to charge the banks with a single forint after the currency-credited cataclysm. Many times, my fellow Member Nacsa points back to the pre-2010 era, and he is right that despite the warnings, he was allowed to increase this credit. But the real cataclysm that has occurred since 2010 is not an irresistible consequence. Well, no one forced you to make a 100 HUF more expensive exchange rate for anyone who took out his so-called loan at 165 HUF! My fellow Member, you have been collaborating with financial institutions, peeping at banks, kneeling before them, and setting a nearly market rate of 100 forints higher. Who forced you to do this? The Curia or the Constitutional Court? Don't make me laugh. If so, show me the section of the Curia's policy decisions that would have required you to exchange rates. It wasn't like that. You made a deal with the banking system, made a deal with the multinationals, and sacrificed the relevant Hungarian social classes in exchange for their service. If this is the most successful decade of the period since the Trianon shame, then many Hungarians may not want to be a part of this; because they do not want to get to the fate of eviction, they do not want to leave not only on the side of the road, but they do not want to hit the side of the road with napalm. [[13.40]] It was a harsh and cruel attitude from you, it cannot be identified with him, and as Vice President of your right-wing opposition and as a Christian-socially sensitive person, I refuse to make these ten years a success story. There is no other force in Hungary that has assisted in this level of bleeding tens of thousands of people. Shame on you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]]
u2020-12-16-59	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-12-16-60	Thank you very much. Mr Varga's speech, although he is leaving the room right now, I wanted to react a little. There was a lot of color in it: Glass tiger, 14 carats, and the honourable Member spoke of everything. Maybe your boss breathed on you this morning, and it made you a little stupor, and something happened in the air. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So, honourable Member... [[On behalf of the President:]] Understood. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, what you're saying with a market example in Debrecen; I accept that there may be a shortage of one of the products you've been talking about here because of excessive demand. The only big difference is that because of your crisis management, they didn't even try to get in line at the time, because the pensioners couldn't afford it. During your time, the real value of pensions has decreased by 10 percent. Between 2002-2010, the real value of pensions decreased by 10 percent and, moreover, the 13th month pension was taken away. The fact is, honourable Member, that now that we have made an alliance with pensioners and are constantly raising pensions, we have raised pensions by 10 percent in real terms over the last ten years, so at least now they can get in line, and you have left them on the side of the road, and you have taken them away from them. Why didn't you ask Congressman Varju when you didn't sit here in Parliament, but he did, why did you vote to take away a month's pensions, and why do you keep voting for a lower increase in the amount of pensions than inflation? You released inflation at the time, but you couldn't have taken it. This is a huge difference, honourable Member, and Congressman Varju has taken a month's pension from every pensioner in Newpest, and he has taken a month's wages from every teacher in Newpest, just like from pensioners in Debrecen and teachers in Debrecen. Then why wasn't he so determined, and why didn't he ask why his bosses made such statements, and why did they make such decisions to take money from pensioners? That's a huge difference, Congressman. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-16-61	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2020-12-16-62	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, To live by the example that my fellow Member Nacsa was living with: he probably got an ecstasy from József Szájer, and it made his day so happy to declare your performance, just make sure he doesn't hang out on the gutters, because it's possible to fall from there, especially if you're wearing only one sock. So in Hungarian: I think that you should believe that we see differently the time you describe here as heaven, that KDNP also understands the difference that we want to say, and that everything that happened during our government was hell-like. What you're doing is all gold, and it's all the way to heaven. So, actually, they've been using a binary code to determine performance for the last 20 years. I think that life is more complicated than that, and more self-criticism can be expected from a KDNP Member, especially before Christmas. I was moved to comment on one side when Mihály Witzmann talked about it for a long time, but it is a pity that we are not in the Chamber, that we are not doing the international comparison, and I smiled a little while during it, because when we in this House have repeatedly recommended to you that the international comparison be made in the case of various economic indicators, such as Matolcsy here among the countries of the region, that there were more people who did it better, the Baltic countries, Poland and many others, in Hungarian, the countries of the region have done better than Hungary has done, then, of course, you will always forget to make this comparison, as you forget, and here I am pleased to hear that my fellow Member Witzmann finally admitted that if there is a global economic crisis in some form, it is more difficult to pursue successful economic policy or business economic policy. When we tell you this, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the context of the 2009-10 crisis, you will, of course, always ignore this. So I wanted to clarify that for the record. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-12-16-63	Thank you very much. I understand the nature of giving and receiving. I ask you all with respect to be fair in your style, and that is how you choose your metaphors. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, we have an independent congressman coming in in two minutes.
u2020-12-16-64	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I decided not to comment on this proposal, because there are enough people in this House with qualifications, qualifications and speech skills to discuss the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's 2019 business report, but there are always some representatives who are able to say stupid things that make people talk. I would like to say with great respect to my colleague Mr Lőrinc Nacsa that in 2010 the average pension was 70 percent of the average wage. In 2020, average pensions are 50 percent of the average wage. So you've put the pensioners in such a bad position in these ten years. That is why we say pension poverty, as average pensions are 20 percent lower than average wages in 2020 than in 2010. And then we hadn't even talked about prices, that is, the prices that people have to pay to make a living, because we've only talked about one comparison between pensioners and employees, and we haven't talked about how in ten years the prices of basic articles needed to make a living have increased, and according to which the real value of pensions has not increased, but it has also decreased. So, with all due respect, please, if you speak to opposition representatives, at least try to converging with reality, and do not talk as if, in the first ten years here, society in general, with the effective help of the Hungarian National Bank, because we are discussing this proposal, in fact, there has been a general increase in the standard of living. This has been a positive ten years for priority social groups, and this social group is exactly what the Fidesz electoral camp is. Every day, you look at the balance of who else needs to do something good, who I can keep as a voter. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-16-65	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, DK!
u2020-12-16-66	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. If you've already provoked it out of me, Congressman Nacsa, you know, at least there was a 13th month pension, because then it was introduced. You've been talking about it for ten years, and by the way, there's nothing. So this is what you have achieved, and in the charm of the real-value promise, you have even fooled people, because it came from what my fellow Members have said factually. What they could do with the pension was also limited on your part, at least in that they did not change the situation, because it was the Bajnai government that adopted the law that they could add at the end of a more successful marketing year. That's what they got from there, by the way. You will forget this, and this will give you the opportunity, because, by the way, you are right not to talk about it, because it is better not to talk about it, because continuing what is the debate on public debt and of course no one will respond to it, that if ten years ago there was a deficit of HUF 21 000 billion, the government debt is now 35 000, and then let us add that we do not talk about the pension savings of HUF 3000 billion that you confiscated, even this is in this; and as it was taken away from people, and they did not offer anything else, or even promised anything else, but they did not pay attention to pensioners. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to just one thing. Yesterday I attended a conference with economists, from Vojvodina to Transcarpathia. He told a fact from a Hungarian expert, your man, that in Romania a cost of 4 percent of GDP was used to reduce the risk of epidemics. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You're talking about 20 percent while there's the same data, which means they're five times more efficient elsewhere, or you've spent a lot more. Excuse me, Mr. President, thank you for your patience. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The 20 percent is divided into three years.]] [[13.50]]
u2020-12-16-67	Now, let us return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the ordinary word. First, Mr László Szakács, representative of the MSZP may speak. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make good comparisons and turn a little back to President Matolcsy's report, because in the meantime, I have been spinning through myself and I have been looking at my notes and what the President of the Central Bank has said. I ask the present members of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions to take this message home with them, because I think it is a serious protection for themselves in this respect. He said it was the President of the Central Bank, which actually ended with the fact that as little foreign credit as possible is needed, because the loan will always become a loan, and it will always have to be repaid, and it will be a trap. Once you've gone back to 2008 and 2006 and as long as you want, as well as the President of the Central Bank has spoken here for the last ten years of infinite success, we'll tell you what it was that you were farming with. We have repeatedly said that you have taken away private pension fund savings, lost 3000 billion forints, and then, as broker companies collapsed, banks collapsed, 400-500 billion forints vanished, and if we turn here to protect the central bank's president, in order to avoid over-indebted foreign debt, it is worth remembering what the government is doing, even because the central bank president said that they support economic policy and development in a strategic partnership. But it looks like they probably don't agree on that. Let's see what you've done. I'll say it in order. First of all, they're building two more reactors with Russian credit. This is what you claim to be a HUF 3500-4000 billion in large and large amounts. Then they build the Budapest-Belgrád railway line with Chinese credit, which is about 750 billion forints in large and whole. And according to their own declaration, because there are political debates in the European Union, I note quietly that what you are generating is why you had to issue a currency bond, and a HUF 960 billion of it was sucked into the budget as debt, which will have to be repaid. I'm just saying this because if you're gonna take the President of the Central Bank's protection to you, you shouldn't have done that, because you're not supposed to be in debt to the outside world. Let me tell you one more thing about settlement bonds. They're coming down right now, they've brought quite a bit of money here. You know, these rich migrants that you love, who bring you money, who give you money, then those who bought you a settlement policy, installed you here, you in Hungary for a small town of people for credit, you also have to pay them back. Now, I'm just saying this because the government's policy is just going against the central bank president's strategic intelligence, and that's something to think about. By the way, I remember the Prime Minister's speech on Monday, although I know that this is sometimes unusual on Wednesdays, but he talked a lot about sovereignty, about self-determination. Look, we owe the Russians a lot of money, the Chinese have a lot of money, they're issuing currency-based bonds for a lot of money, and the settlement policy has to be repaid in general, by the way, we've seen statistics for Middle Eastern citizens at the time, well, that certainly raises sovereignty issues. This raises not only questions of financial stability, but also questions of political stability. Well, what else does this government decide not in Moscow and Beijing? ! You had to jump into everything, get into everything, take on a lot of credit, then explain yourself to the federal system, to NATO, to the European Union, and to the non-compliance. That's what we see. So this raises not only financial but also sovereignty issues. All I have to say to the Vice-President is that if we take what President Matolcsy said seriously in this, then they should be more effective so that Hungary does not become more indebted to the rest of the world than it is now, I think we are already above the politically acceptable level. The other one, which was in the President of the Central Bank's exposé, bit the sentence halfway, and then supplemented it to at least legal order, said that the well-run central bank, when the state was in trouble, was able to buy a thousand billion bonds. Then, I suppose, during the sentence he realized that it was forbidden to do so under the law, and then quickly put it next to the secondary market. That's not right, either. If that is the case, it is not right that the central bank will lend a loan to the Hungarian State, its owner at interest rates, even if it does so on the secondary market. Pay this money as a dividend. You're welcome to pay it off as a dividend. I saw him tell you off, he knows he told you off, so I had to put him on the side. The fact that it gives money to commercial banks to buy government bonds was run around at least one more round at the time, but that the Hungarian central bank buys Hungarian government bonds in the secondary market and thus finances the Hungarian state is in breach of EU law, as is the case with Hungarian legislation. You know that, and we know that. Instead, it has to be paid into dividends. It is much simpler, there is no need to break laws because of it, nor does the Hungarian State even have to pay interest to the strategic partner central bank with which they are developing Hungary's economic policy. I definitely wanted to draw attention to that. It's not right, it's not legal, and the legal way is much more viable, much less rugged. There is no need to round the money to allow the Matolcsy central bank to drain hundreds of billions of forints even here as interest gains, because it has given the Hungarian State a loan, and Hungarian taxpayers should pay interest to the central bank on the money that could otherwise have been paid as dividends. With Hungarian taxpayers, you are paying interest on Hungarian sovereign debt to the Hungarian central bank, which could have been able to give this money to the budget. Obviously, the letter of the law and even the spirit can tell why this is wrong. I think it was worth drawing attention to. To my fellow Member Nacsa, did they keep it in real terms, let alone preserving what he said? , even increased the value of pensions. When you're talking about six percent inflation this year and a 3.4 percent pension increase? How does that come out? The one where last year was 3.4 percent inflation, and you raised 1.9 percent? How does this math come out? Real value. The fact that when they were caught up in 2018 and they just threw 0.9 percent in front of the pensioners as a raise, and then when the people's anger came to this point, the gracious leader said it was good, we'd give you another 1 percent. This is when a pension increase is planned, the next year of one of Hungary's largest ethnic groups is planned, and then they act, is this what it looks like? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] People's group, yes; we're talking about pensioners. Then I'll say social group. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's different!]] That's right. The largest social group, thank you, my fellow Member, for bringing this to my attention. Is that really what design looks like? The budget is scheduled for 0.9 percent, and then, when the people's anger came, the kind leader said it was good, then it was even 1 percent. It's not planning! Then here, President Matolcsy is right, then this crisis does not seem to have such stages of planning, but has such psychological stages. Enthusiasm, recognition, panic, that's what we're seeing. We remember that the President of the Central Bank was enthusiastic in the spring, which could lead to growth, 2.2 percent. They were already fighting with Mihal Varga, who said it would be more of a negative two. That was the stage of enthusiasm. Then came the recognition phase, when it came to the fact that the growth and credit program had been funded not only by friends, friends and friends, but also by other small entrepreneurs, László Szíyj and Tiborcz. [[14.00]] That was the stage of recognition, and now the explanation. It has such psychological stages: enthusiasm, recognition, panic. That's what I see in this, and the rest is simple explanation, which is what I think a report like this deserves more than that. It will be interesting to discuss next year's report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-16-69	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-12-16-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There's been a lot of talk here, and there are dozens of books in psychology about the phenomenon where bad memories are so tried to be forgotten and altered by the brain, and that's what you think for the period 2008-2009. It is always a special pleasure for me and has a special sport value when better or better Members defend the Gyurcsány government, for example, the congresswoman, the pension policy of the Gyurcsány government and the pension increases at that time. I'm always happy about that. But let's see what Ferenc Gyurcsány said in 2008 because you quoted everyone here. Ferenc Gyurcsány said in 2008 that we would be affected by the wind of the crisis. Now they're saying that we should be fair to you. Well, it was such a brutal global economic crisis in 2008-2009 that the public debt was obviously gone, and obviously the labour shortage was enormous, and obviously the government deficit figures were brutal. Then Ferenc Gyurcsány said that we would only be affected by the wind of the crisis. So what is the perfect description of the incompetent driver? The fact that he has no idea what danger he is facing doesn't even know how to handle it, and then he mistreats it, so in practice it also shows that Ferenc Gyurcsány handled the crisis perfectly wrong, which he didn't even admit was going to happen. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] At the time, the honourable Members did not yell, "Well, boss, this is a great global crisis, but we should not say that only the wind will touch us!" Since more people have spoken about the issue of debt here, I would like to link it with the fact that László Varju was so proud that they created the institution of the pension premium. After the comma, the second half of the sentence was missing how many times you paid the pension premium to Hungarian pensioners. I'm gonna help you get it on the record, like, zero times. They never paid for it. You created the legal background of this and never paid the Hungarian pensioners this. We have paid several times for Hungarian pensioners and pensioners. True, you wrote on the paper that there is such a thing, but then you never paid the Hungarian pensioners for it. I think there's a huge difference. And who has also included in the Fundamental Law and legislation the need to continuously reduce public debt-to-GDP ratio? These were also us, because we consider it important to keep public debt going down in the years of economic growth, and to keep reducing the level of public debt. Congressman Varga called the previous years the sunny years. [[Anita Kőrösi: No!]] I am satisfied with so much positive praise from the opposition representatives, isn't it, honourable Member, who was responsible for these sunny years? The government's economic policy, the central bank's economic policy, the right decisions made, the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian companies, the investments, the ever-growing export market. And who wasn't responsible? For you, who have tried to cross all measures and rejected all measures and have not voted for them. So much for the sunny years. Robbery privatization: my favorite topic. Dániel Z. Kárpát and I have talked about this several times, and others have said that the budget deficit was 5-6-7 percent under the Gyurcsány government, and that the government debt has increased to an amazing extent during a period of robbery privatisation. So, in principle, according to the normal rules of mathematics and economics, the Hungarian state should have obtained amazing financial revenues. Well, they sold 192 companies, mostly profitable companies. 192 state-owned companies were hijacked, many of which were public utilities, strategic, national security-important institutions and companies that were profitable. These should have flown in, the value of the purchase price, if not sold below the price, into the central cash register. Or even PPP schemes, when you said that this is good because we do not implement it on credit and therefore do not bear the burden of public debt; it does not bear the burden of public debt, it does not bear the cost of these investments, but it is possible to build it. Hungarian voters lost HUF 2853 billion because Hungarian taxpayers implemented the M5 motorway, M6, not from credit, but from PPP. Hungarian taxpayers lost HUF 2853 billion. It's that simple. These revenues should have been reflected in the budget, and there should not have been a budget deficit of 5-6-7 per cent, nor should the public debt-to-GDP ratio have increased from 50 per cent to 80 per cent. Well, that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that there was no such revenue, because it was a robbery privatisation. They were buddies, foreign interests, speculators. This was economic growth and fiscal balance, and there was no falling public debt. That's the problem! Mr Z. Carpathian and I have discussed the family support system many times, and I think we will in the coming years, but would the government leave out a whole layer of this package of measures? ! Congressman, for example, the family tax relief that they have abolished, we have led it back, we have extended it, and then we have raised it, and they have not voted for the people you are now helping to power, but 96 percent of the family beneficiaries are entitled to the family allowance. Do you know how big 96 percent is? Can you feel the weight of this? How can you say that the government's family support is missing entire social groups when 96 percent of the family allowance holders are able to benefit from family tax relief and its extension to contributions! And once again, you had a tax increase, and here it was a tax reduction. And the foreign currency exposure: the structure of the public debt has completely changed. Here, Commissioner, you are talking about foreign vulnerability. Well, we increase national sovereignty and reduce our exposure by transforming the foreign currency structure of the sovereign debt and reducing it to much less than 20 percent. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] the currency stock of the sovereign debt, and now Hungarian citizens and Hungarian investors finance the Hungarian state most largely with deposits, sovereign debt and bonds. Hungarian citizens finance it, not the IMF and other similar foreign speculators, to whom you have been running for your favourite pleasure. [[Dr. László Kács: Putin is much better...]] And for those of you who have committed robbery privatization, and these red barons are getting rich, Congressman Varga has been talking about fourteen carats, well, there's an oligarch sitting here in Parliament, and that's your leader, if anyone has any carats in the world, it's him, isn't it? We have increased the value of national wealth by one and a half times, and we have increased the value of national wealth by one and a half times. We bought back strategic companies, and when they say why György Matolcsy bought a painting, I don't know what kind of painting it was you who sold it and had to get it back, the national wealth. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Painting?]] You're the ones who've been fooling around on the black market and among your principled friends. [[Zoltán Varga: What do you smoke?!]] Well, the György Matolcsys recovered a number of valuable properties, artifacts that you've been doing. The formula is very simple, I understand that it hurts you to finally have national ownership of such art or companies again. [[Mrs. Potocska's name is Anita Kőrösi.]] I understand that this hurts you, Congressman, but we did not expect you to represent the national interests effectively, and we did not expect that from you, no problem. I agree, Mr Cook, the laws must be followed by everyone, the taxes must be paid by everyone. This also applies to the excise duty on cigarettes, and look into this at the house of their ethics committee. And on the subject of debt, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken over the government's debt that you have imposed on them. The strangler is the debt spiral in which the municipalities came after 2007, where you have been given more and more tasks to the municipalities, but less and less funding to them, so they have become part of a debt spiral. We took over 1300 billion forints of debt from the municipalities. Well, when you talk about the structure of debt and the increase or reduction of public debt, why don't you mention that we've taken over 1300 billion from the municipalities because you've increased their responsibilities, but unfortunately, they haven't found funding in the system for this, because metro 4 and Sukoro were more important and so much more. The subject of poverty, which has also been affected, honourable Members, is: if we look at the annual publication of the household standard of living published by the Statistical Office, you are watching a completely different film. Well, you don't acknowledge Hungarian reality, you don't see... Z. Dániel Kárpát regularly describes facts as production reports. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Not with a good temper!]] And I understand that it hurts him that these facts are good, that these results and economic data are good, but this is not a production report if we are pleased, for example, that 1.5 million people less than 2010 have to pay back. I think it's a good thing that, compared to 2010, one and a half million people are short of salary. [[Anita Kőrösi: Or they took her house!]] I think it's also a good thing, and it's not a production report, it's a good thing that 4 million people have more money for unexpected expenses than in 2010. Aren't you happy about that? You think this is just a production report? I think it is also very important to note that 2.4 million people can go on vacation for a week than in 2010, with two and a half million more people; that the number of people who cannot heat their apartments has decreased by 650 thousand. The percentage of people living below the income poverty threshold has decreased, absolute decline. [[14.10]] I think that these are results, it is not always worth denying, because it renders you uncredited, which, by the way, often renders your sensible message uncredited. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Advent!]] One bird of his has fallen to one third! the number of persons involved in serious material deprivation. Since 2010, the number of heavily deprived people has decreased by 64 percent from 2 million 234 thousand to 1 million 421 thousand since 2010. A bird of one has been reduced, suffering from or exposed to severe material deprivation. I think it's a huge achievement. We are not yet where we want to be, poverty must be completely eliminated, but it has fallen to one third. It's a little bitch, Mr. Congressman. It's a huge achievement, I think. The number of people living in households with very low working intensity also decreased significantly, with 384 thousand living in households with very low working intensity, 50 thousand less than in 2010. I think that the rate of low school education, unemployment, poverty and social exclusion has been steadily reduced after 2010, especially from 12 onwards. Every year these numbers are better, because every year we make progress. You deny them. With a noble simplicity, it is said that this did not happen in Hungary. I think that these results speak for themselves, and I did not say that this is the end of any journey, and they will never hear me say that I am satisfied with this and that we are done with our work. What I'm saying is that this is a good direction, that the blow that the Hungarian economy is going on, that it went on before the epidemic, and the results that it has achieved are a very, very good direction. It's just hard to argue with you, even if we speak more strongly sometimes, and the President's warning leads us back to the right path, I still think that there is a place for a strong debate; but the denial of the facts about what happened in 2008-2009, and what happens now, how hundreds of thousands of people were left behind... Eviction, Mr President: 1.5 million people were at risk of direct eviction in 2009, and Mr Cook says that there was no eviction in their time. He claimed there was no eviction. Of course there was, in fact. One and a half million people and many of them have ceased their permanent housing directly, one step away from being evicted, so many people dismissed, so many people down, so many people left on the side of the road. The termination of the 13th month's wage, the termination of the 13th month's pension, the tax increase and the withdrawal of the benefits already notified, the systematic reduction of the family support and the housing support system. You remember the Socpol, half-socpol, other concepts like that, remember how, by the way, the family tax relief was taken from the one and two children, how the child was reduced to two years from the three years. Zita Gurmai talked about the ged extra here today and family support in connection with Minister Katalin Novák. A few years ago, he said that when he went to government, the MSZP would stop them from working, and they would also get family support. If someone had a child then, it was almost the same as poverty, living in a large family and living in poverty during your time, because as soon as the next child was born, the family support for the first child was immediately taken away, it was abolished at that moment as if it didn't exist. Talk about these facts, too. Tell them that if they want to compete with so much quotes, why did Ferenc Gyurcsány think that we would only be affected by the wind of this crisis while the country was then destroyed. We were asked to account for 2010 data by taking over a ruined Hungarian economy on the brink of bankruptcy in 2010, and from where we were talking to the President and my fellow Members about Hungary's successful economic year in 2019. I wish all of us as Christmas gifts or New Year's best wishes, take it however they want us to go back there, we can continue that way and be as good and then even better for Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses than it was in 2019. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-16-71	Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, independent, please.
u2020-12-16-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2020 we could not achieve two things to improve the ability of my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, to understand the text [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] Or that he can improve his memory in some way, given that these two shortcomings are always revealed when he responds to an opposition representative's speech. When my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, talks about numbers and the fact that there has been a decrease in the disadvantaged potential of society, he always forgets very important things. One is that in the last ten years, at least 1 million of our countrymen have died, and there is a high chance, as the majority of our deceased countrymen are from the older population, there are also groups of disadvantaged people whose deaths have reduced the number of disadvantaged people. It's one of the social groups. The other is that during these ten years there are 300,000 people less in Hungary, Hungarian citizens. I'm not talking about emigrants, I'm talking about natural weight loss, so that's how many more people have died in the last ten years than were born. Don't laugh, because I quote the data of the HCSO, ladies and gentlemen. Why don't you at least stay on the ground of objectivity when you're making a propaganda speech? Then we must not forget that 600,000 of our countrymen have migrated. So the decline in the number of disadvantaged groups that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is due once to death, secondly to natural loss of weight, and thirdly to emigration. There is, in fact, a fourth movement, and this is part of the privileged social groups of beneficiaries. This means that their income growth and wealth growth are indeed such a high level that, based on the data of many poor people in the ranks, it can create a rise in certain living conditions. But those are just average figures, as my fellow Members often say, that one has long hair, the other has bald hair, and the average is that everyone has hair, while in that community 20 percent may not have hair. It must therefore be noted that these data do not reflect the real state of society. Then Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa always forgets that Viktor Orbán has not been in government since 2010, but that Viktor Orbán has already been in government between 98 and 2002, when robbery was still taking place. After the Horn government, the first Orbán government said good-bye to state assets, how much it squandered, how much it sold and sold to its own comrades during that period! So to talk about other privatized and otherwise robbed during privatisation, even though this government has been doing exactly the same thing for four years, I apologize as its predecessors... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I apologize...]] So it would be nice if you didn't throw that question in the other's eyes. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Excuse me...]] Then we always talk about how the wealth of a country is not shown by how much a rich person is, but by how much the poor person is. In Hungary, whether you like it or not, there are many poor people, especially in areas where the average representative never turns. Like it or not, society is still living in pension poverty and active poverty. Where there are two children, they are the poorest social groups if we look at their average income and spending constraints. True, this is rarely the case in the life of a country, with three children growing up to the standard of living in families. Yes, these advantages granted by the State can also create such interesting situations in a society. Let me tell you one more thing, my honourable fellow Member. And this is what was in this House today. In his speech before the agenda, Zita Gurmai address Katalin Novák. Katalin Novak stands up and lists how many family support benefits were granted by the Orbán government, what systems he introduced, and how many families have received such wonderful benefits. What are we discussing in the second half of the day? The Magyar Nemzeti Bank's 2019 report shows that Hungary's public debt has been increased from 20 000 billion to 32 000 billion in ten years. I just want to say that there are very few more symbolic days, because if Katalin Novak had sat through today and was still here, he could have had the answer to his own beautiful performance that the Orbán government had successfully financed this family support system from the debt of the state. He didn't fund it from his own resources, not from budgetary resources, but from debt! When these children, mentioned by Katalin Novak, will grow up and ask their parents why: but please, as a citizen, why do I have to participate in the repayment of so much public debt, and why the economy will stand, because the debt service will no longer be able to bear the economy, then the parents will say: my dear star, the birth of your age, the creation of your age, the Hungarian state at that time cost so much money with its own resources, and the next third to fourth generation will repay this obligation. [[14.20]] And when, in some 20 years' time, someone might look back at the records at this time, they will see that, with great respect, there was a government that created the family support system by continuously generating public debt and waiting for it to be repaid from the generation to which it was created. You've got to think like that. It can't be four years apart, five years apart, even ten years away, anyone who wants to take responsibility for the fate of a country has to think in a 20-to-thirty-year perspective! So what I can tell you is that, yes, families need to be supported, but not through public debt creation, not through loans, but through the use of existing budgetary resources, of course, it is not possible to steal from it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-12-16-73	Congressman Zoltán Varga of the Democratic Coalition, here you go.
u2020-12-16-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I'll be brief. I am deeply sorry that Congressman Nacsa left the sinking Fidesz ship and fled, so I can only send a message to him and the 133 other brave countrymen and ladies, the kind leader. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] who, in the summer, was conceitingly banging his fat belly to assume all responsibility, he is the Almighty, who decides on life and death, and today, by avoiding virtually all responsibility, flees from the numbers that really hit everyone in the chest, because very, very many people die every day. Tell the man who regularly lies and then denies lying, and then, when he gets caught, he denies that he's ever lied, and I think there's so much I can say, and I think more and more people in the country, in the capital, in the county towns and everywhere, but I don't, because it doesn't make sense. I'll tell you one thing: Merry Christmas.
u2020-12-16-75	We have a two-minute speech. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-12-16-76	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Lőrinc Nacsa suggested to us that we give our opinions on quotes; then I will bring him one, if he may read it from the record when he returns. He quoted something from Ferenc Gyurcsány, so I would quote Viktor Orbán, who said on 27 June 2010 that he had taken over a well-established economy as Prime Minister and a stable budget [[Gábor Varga: Aha!]] So much for what everyone thought. Then, I suppose, after that, he realized that it would not be politically rewarding if he held to this claim, so suddenly a few months later Hungary became one of the biggest economic countries in the world, because that was what was paying off. But basically, when the Prime Minister and the Fidesz government took over the government of the country, Viktor Orbán was once again given a sound economy and a stable budget from the previous government. So in Hungarian, I think this is an important observation. On the other hand, I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has also realised that it will be a takeover, because he said that Daniel Z. Karpat is helping the opposition side to gain power. I would like to thank Dániel Z. Karpát for helping the opposition to power, because I think it will be good for this country if it is finally not controlled by Fidesz, because there are many initiatives by Fidesz that are not in the national interest, and neither is its policy. The other thing is that interestingly, you always forget when you talk about what was in 2010 and in the previous period, and what is in 2019 from the point of view that in 2010 we were talking about a country in crisis, a country in a global economic crisis whose indicators have developed accordingly, its social indicators, its economic indicators, its budgetary indicators, so if you compare, you might not want to compare apples to melons, although they are both fruit and round. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But it's not the same. Therefore, I think that the year of crisis should be compared to the year of crisis, and we will see what those indicators will mean in 2020. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent and the Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-16-77	Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, here you go.
u2020-12-16-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'll tell you the truth, I was shocked to hear this argument. There has been a terrible social and economic crisis in Hungary, and we can see in parallel how sorry we are for the words of those pro-government representatives! with a big mouth and a big mouth, they praise their own economic policy, while it is evident that they have made a shocking contribution to this crisis to Hungarian society, and even now they are not learning from it, they are unwilling to correct it, and they are still feeding their oligarchs. It's pretty amazing. It is typical of your policy that in the last decade only Lőrinc Mészáros and László Szíyi won in public procurements worth HUF 2000 billion with their companies. Last year, Lőrinc Mészáros even broke his own record, he took out more than HUF 25 billion in dividends, this year Lőrinc Mészáros took 11.5 billion forints of dividends from his companies, and he had the image not long ago to contribute HUF 50 million to the improvement of the fate of those in the most difficult situation. This year he took out 11.5 billion forints of dividends. Compared to this, when we presented a proposal to the Economic Commission meeting not long ago that social workers, who are now working heroically in terrible circumstances, should receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500 000, the Chairman of the Economic Committee said that there was no money. Or when we presented the proposal to reduce the VAT on basic foods, they also said that there was no budget for this. However, the Budapest-Belgrád railway project can continue to run a thousand billion-dollar business, from which Lőrinc Mészáros' companies will receive 300 billion. It's pretty amazing. Only this year and next year, you spend so much money on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line serving Chinese interests, out of which 175 thousand new jobs could have been created in this horribly difficult economic situation. It's quite amazing and quite cynical. In this situation, you and your government have betrayed the Hungarian people at the forefront. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2020-12-16-79	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2020-12-16-80	Mr President, Dear House, At the time of Advent, I am terribly sad that the credit-damaged, the bank-damaged ones, are not even open to gesture concessions. That is why I would like to send a message from here to the credit-damaged people whose Christmas is now likely to be in an even sadder climate because of the epidemiological emergency than usual, if it is up to us and I hope very strongly that, after 2022, the opposition parties will develop these conditions, if it is up to us, we will have an immediate eviction moratorium until the problem is resolved, but at least until the end of the epidemiological emergency, so that we can put those people who have been left on the side of the road in a fair position with a new account. I would also like to say that what is happening now is not compatible with my world view, that in the middle of the epidemiological emergency, in the case of small pensioners and the lowest earners, the executives can and have been able to disable 33 percent and 50 percent respectively. We want to free the incomes of people with the smallest money from any similar shady interference. Thirdly, I would like to predict that we will free up the price of government pyramid constructions after a change of government, and we will create, among other things, a fund from which we can help or compensate the small ones, and, secondly, we will have to think of people with housing difficulties in general, those with backlogs, the young people with rents, who are now unable to break out of this situation without the support of housing savings; we would therefore like to achieve living conditions and a future for all concerned. I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas for all who may be bitterer than they should be, but after the darkest night, the morning will be the most beautiful. I wish you a blessed, peaceful Christmas.
u2020-12-16-81	Thank you very much. In a normal speech, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-12-16-82	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'd like to respond to a few comments. One is that Congressman Nacsa said that many companies were sold. One thing you forget to add is that these were sold in international tenders, in competition. I know this is unbelievable for you, because that's not how you do it, so you're gonna assign the buyer, and most of all, it's just your buddies when they get into trouble as a company, and then the state buys it back. [[14.30]] So I would also like to point out to Congressman Varga that the case of the Mátra Power Plant is a very good example of how you do it. They were proud to buy it back into national property. I don't know why Lőrinc Mészáros is a national property, but he did become a Hungarian owner of this factory. He quickly unloads everything as a dividend, takes the money out of the company, and then when the problems started to come up and put some money into it, he quickly sells it to the state for good money. In English: Your oligarch has been looking for you twice in this regard. This is the model you're using. That's what you call national property, that's what you call national sovereignty, when you give your friends all kinds of tenders, without competitive tendering, to companies in profitable sectors, and then when they get into trouble, because they're untalented to run it properly, then the state comes out of taxpayers' money to help one of these companies, so that they don't lose anything by the particular fidesz oligarch. Let me put one more thing to your attention, just for the record. It's really outrageous, though, what my colleague in charge of the LMP group was talking about. Think about it. Aren't you ashamed that this national capitalist, as you call it, will take Lőrinc Mészáros out of your companies and then give your company nearly HUF 20 billion in state aid? ! Well, why don't you take a little less dividends out of your own companies this year, in the year of a crisis like this? Didn't you think of that? They talk about Christian love and values and how responsible they are. What's your responsibility in this? Tell me. He takes 11 billion, he takes him home, and the state rushes in and gives him more than 20 billion forints as state aid to get his companies back together. [[To Gábor Varga:]] Don't wave at me, Congressman. Press a button and tell me. 'Cause I don't know how long you've been sitting here, I'm sure, 'cause it's hot and it's way better out here than in the fog, but if you're having a fight, don't swing your head around. [[Gábor Varga: Let's not get personal.]] 'Cause it's gonna fall off, and then we can search together. So the point is, if you have an opinion, you should tell me, like we say. There's nothing wrong with not agreeing. [[Gábor Varga: That's the point!]] You've done a luxurious, favorable business in Fejér County, I know you've had a lot of problems behind your back. So I think it's worth lining up for Fidesz, of course, because it might protect itself from various legal problems, but it's basically a question, believe me, it's a shame to take 11 billion as a dividend, and then the state will give him 20 billion forints from the taxpayers' pockets. It's not okay, believe me, no matter how much you don't like this question. The other is that they are constantly talking about national sovereignty and swinging at different things, but they are explaining to me how much it increases national sovereignty if we owe Russia and the Chinese Communist Party for borrowing! So a Belgrade-Budapest railway line is 750 billion, a Paks nuclear power plant development is HUF 3200 billion. Why is it a stronger national sovereignty position if we owe East, quasi dictatorships or dictatorships than if we owed Western banks or anyone else? In the meantime, of course, euro-based government bonds were issued, so they also borrowed from it because they talked about no borrowing and how strong national sovereignty was. In Hungarian, to simplify it a little: instead of the EU, we take credit from the East, dictatorship, Chinese Communist Party ordenar, there is nothing wrong with national sovereignty. With the IMF, it was a long time ago, and Hungary is also a member and has a say in the operation of the organization, that was a problem. The Chinese, the Russians, there's no problem with that. I don't think that's okay. The second is that the Hungarian economy in recent years... By the way, my colleague Varga did not say the seven sunny years, and he probably did not hear that, because he was not in the room at the time, but Matolcsy himself, and he classified this past period as such. God forbid we praise the President of the National Bank because there's no reason to. He praised himself, and that was part of that praise. He said that you had to take over the municipal debts. Well, please, it was a government debt because you encouraged the Fidesz municipalities to take out loans. There was a local government that picked him up, put him in a bank account and used him. So he didn't need credit so badly, he didn't even use it. Do you know why that was good? On the one hand, this made it difficult for the government to move around at the time, and on the other hand, there was a dealer, a lobbyist who managed these bonds and borrowings, and he was able to make himself a very nice percentage; that's why it was important to you. There was a political goal to be spotted by the government at the time, and on the other hand, that one of their buddies would make a hell of a lot of money by doing it, because everyone had to turn to the same people to handle these matters. Then, of course, they had to take responsibility, because the municipalities told us to do something about it, because it's not good to be in debt like this. Indeed, you have accepted this, but because you have actually generated this debt with these municipalities. And with regard to the pension premium, I was curious to hear that we never gave you a pension premium. That's because there's a choice. We adopted this regulation in 2010. It would have been difficult to give it to 2010 because, unfortunately, we lost the election. So asking us to account for why we didn't give you a pension premium, I think it's a little strong. I think that's all I wanted to say about that right now. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-16-83	Thank you very much. Mr. Congressman, don't sit down, because you asked for a two-minute speech, which you are about to take. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thought there were other speakers. I thought it was a close-up to this two-minute sentence. It is true that we have a lot of debates in this House, often sharp and often, to say the least, not without strong words, and indeed there are cases where these debates even make sense. I would add that in this respect, my fellow Member Nacsa always stands up to the challenge, and even a number of Members with Fidesz and KDNP as well as my fellow opposition Members. So, in fact, in these two minutes, Mr President, I just wanted to thank everyone for standing up in this debate, arguing with me or with us. I think we are all driven by the same thing, so that we can somehow improve the life of the Hungarian people, the future of this country. Of course, we think of this differently, in other ways, along with other political beliefs, starting from another value base. But I have never debated, nor will I, that this is basically what drives everyone at the level of policy-making, just as I am always driven by trying to contribute to the improvement of this country. In conclusion, I would also like to wish everyone a blessed, peaceful, merry Christmas and a happy holiday. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-16-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Vice-President Barnabas Virág to reflect on what has been said. [[Flower Barnabás: Yes.]] Mr. Vice President, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-86	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I must say that, in at least two respects, the vice-president of the Central Bank is in a difficult situation when he responds to such a debate. These two aspects are that, on the one hand, the subject of the debate is the report and the report of the Hungarian National Bank for 2019 and, on the other hand, at the beginning of the comments, it was said that everyone was trying to stay on the ground of the facts and to present facts. At the time, even I was confident about the debate, because we are at the Hungarian National Bank's analytical workshop on this very basis, that we are trying to collect as many facts as possible and make decisions based on them. But I have to say that in many cases, the facts that were said or not closely related to the subject were either inaccurate, or I couldn't decide whether it was the first time the comment was made, the speech, and then they tried to add some facts or the other way around. [[14.40]] So naturally, I cannot respond to all the statements made in the debate, and I would basically like to respond to the statements related to the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. I would like to start with the issue of inflation. Mr President, in his report, he also started by saying that, according to the Central Bank Act, the MNB's primary mandate is to achieve and maintain price stability. In this respect, in 2019, as the Hungarian National Bank has successfully achieved its inflation target in 2020 and maintained price stability, this has been the case since 2017, for four years now. Of course, there may be a question of why we should stress this. Because that's the job of the central bank, that's what you have to do. The reason why this is a serious achievement is that we can start with this report: Hungary has had an inflation target framework in which the central bank has been operating since 2001, so since 2001 the central bank has been aiming at achieving price stability, anchoring inflation at a low level, and has not been able to achieve this until 2017. And if there are quotes here, let me put a quote here, which, I think, is one of the most iconic economic historical quotes of the period after the change of regime from the '90s, it is worth looking into, which sounded like there was no increase in wages that could not be removed. I am bringing you here because I think that this sentence basically defined the possibilities of the central bank over several periods in the period that followed. After 2001, we saw that the government's budget deficit had grown enormously due to a fundamental economic policy failure, and that the government's budget deficit was intended to cover up in that period of time, basically every year, by reviving inflation. The most iconic example of this is perhaps the year 2007, when we were before the crisis, perhaps everyone remembers it at the level of the facts, then inflation was 8 percent, due to the fact that at that time we could no longer maintain that huge deficit, and then this iconic phrase came up again to speed up inflation and try to correct the lack of budget. This was practically the case during the crisis management period of 2009-2010, when what really happened was that that wage increase was virtually inhibited by economic policy at that time, and real wages were reduced. I think that this has been a complete reduction in the 2010 decade, so it is no coincidence that the President, too, summarized the 2010 decade in his report and linked the results of the 19th year, because in order for the central bank to succeed in achieving price stability, a basic condition is that the budget management should be in order, the budget deficit should be low and the public debt should be reduced year by year. This has been achieved with the fiscal turn in 2010 and the subsequent budget management, and this has created the opportunity for the central bank to achieve its objective of price stability, which, I say, has been maintained continuously since 2017. It has been said several times that the central bank's focus is only on price stability. We naturally believe that the central bank should have a much wider mandate, and we also operate on the basis, as the President said in his report, that it is important to support financial stability and the government's economic policy. Here, I would like everyone to see clearly that when these objectives are set for the central bank in the Central Bank Act, in any country, not only in Hungary, the long-term consideration is always that the ultimate goal is economic growth, sustainable economic growth, growth in the national economy, and a successful economic catch-up in the Hungarian case. Because only stable prices, with only a stable financial system, we have the chance to keep the Hungarian economy on a sustainable path for many years and decades, so that is why we need to achieve these goals. As a naturally raised question, this 3.4 percent inflation value, which was observed this year in Hungary in 2019, was as much as this value, how to interpret it from pensions, wages and other sides. Here I would like to emphasise that if I reverse this thought, then it should be said that, after all, the lowest possible inflation is the best. If we were to accept this, we would say that, in the last ten years, Greece, let us say, has been the best performer in this area, since inflation has been negative in several years, so there has been deflation. Of course, this statement is not true, as deflation is a very dangerous phenomenon, as this has also happened in Greece with the decline in the economy, so central banks are setting targets of 2 to 2,5 to 3%, and are trying to keep inflation around it, because this is what can support savings, investment and overall economic development in the long term. On the overall economic policy side, Hungary has succeeded in achieving this inflation target only if, as I said, budget management is in order, we have seen this from 2010, while the economy is growing. We see that again, based on Eurostat figures, we have managed to prevent Slovakia and Poland in the region in terms of economic development between 2010 and 19 and we have the second highest GDP per capita in the Czech Republic, measured at purchasing power parities. So the economy is growing, while domestic demand is increasing, so consumption, investment and wages are increasing, which is also very important. We have seen that a very significant real wage increase has also been achieved during this period. Here can be misleading the ideas that have been said here, the tax on the various changes in the exchange rate for people and the rest. In this case, the extent to which the impact of the exchange rate on inflation, the extent to which it occurs, and how it affects the purchasing possibilities of Hungarians must be examined at all times. If we look at this, we can see that the average inflation rate since 2017 of around 3 per cent is expected to be 3.4 per cent in 19 and 3.4 per cent in 2020 respectively, combined with a very robust nominal wage increase in 2019 with a two-digit nominal wage increase, which means that real wages have increased by 6 to 7 per cent over this period. It is not, therefore, that any kind of tax has been imposed on people through monetary policy, and on the other hand, the economy has been characterised by a stable, predictable inflation environment, which has embedded growth, while real wages have increased by about 6-7 percent. So once again, I would like to ask that, when assessing the performance of the central bank, it is necessary to assess the performance of the central bank in line with these objectives, because this determines the potential for growth in a country. Several allegations have been raised here, and only a few facts about them should be allowed. I often follow Parliament's debates on economic issues and two statements are made. On the one hand, what also occurred in today's debate is that, after all, the depreciation of the exchange rate in a given year actually helps multinational companies operating here. At the same time, it is often said from the mouth of the same people that multinational companies operating here do nothing but import, assemble and then export. So I'm just asking you to decide which statement we believe in: either that they are actually beneficiaries of the exchange rate change, or that they actually import a lot of money, because in that case, they are also affected by the movement of the exchange rate. I don't want to put my vote on that, but I'm asking you to say the word "bet" and find a connection between the two. What I would like to emphasise at the level of the facts is, once again, that there has been a huge change in the external trade balance during the 2010 decade. Hungary has achieved a budget surplus of around 4-5 percent of GDP, which is a huge step forward. [[14.50]] What perhaps less people know, however, is that two thirds of this trade surplus has come from the service sector in recent years. So not from large manufacturing companies, but from Hungarian companies operating in the service sector, transporter, tourism, catering and other services sectors. So I would like to take this into account when we assess the changes in external trade that have taken place in recent years. So I would like to emphasise once again that two thirds of our surplus comes from the service sector. What you do or what you can do... It is still a question of what large companies are versus SMEs and what the central bank can do in this area. Here again, I would like to stress that the Hungarian National Bank, I think, with the growth credit programme that we started in 2013, and since then we have been continuing, has launched an exemplary lending programme at European level, quite simply because it is not only a Hungarian phenomenon in a crisis environment, or after that it is an international phenomenon that in general banks operate in such a way that everyone considers the SME sector to be a little more risky, they are reluctant to give them credit. Of course, SMEs can only obtain funds in the form of loans, since they cannot issue shares or corporate bonds. And by the way, for example, Mario Draghi, the former President of the European Central Bank, stressed this statement in recent days, building precisely on Hungarian experience, that central banks must pay particular attention to SMEs, which are typically owned by Hungary. I would like to emphasise that in 2019 13 711 SMEs received cheap forint financing under the growth loan programme; in 2020, 23 388 SMEs have received cheap, low-interest, fixed-interest funding in Hungary. So I think that the Hungarian National Bank has done a great deal and is doing a great deal to enable Hungarian SMEs to grow, and that Hungarian SMEs, too, at such an extraordinary time as the coronal virus epidemic, should be able to stay on their feet. It is no coincidence that so many SMEs have used this option. Claims were made in relation to consumer protection. Here, too, I can capacitate to the honourable Members that, if they see such problems, they should signal it to the supervisory authority of the Hungarian National Bank, and they will certainly investigate it. We have made great progress in this area in recent years, but I also think it is clear from the press that we are constantly imposing new fines in cases where we see some kind of violation. So what I can tell you is that there will certainly not be any unanswered problem. With regard to the management of accounts, which has been raised here, I can say, as the President said, a trend in the operation of the Hungarian National Bank over the past few years is that we have constantly appeared with new and new consumer-friendly products. The aim of these was precisely to produce credit products, insurance and other banking financial systems that were more favourable to the wider public than before, with more transparent conditions. So I think that this process has not stopped, so I can promise you that we will continue to do so in the coming years, and that we will make the development of these consumer-friendly products as widely as possible. There were some factual errors in the comments, which should be allowed to be corrected in order to remain accurate in the minutes and, in the case of public opinion, a figure, a statement. Perhaps Mr László Szakács mentioned several statements here about the functioning of the central bank, on the one hand, what is happening to the outcome of the central bank. I just want to get back to you on time. In 2019 the Hungarian National Bank generated HUF 254 billion. At the beginning of this year, we paid HUF 250 billion into the budget, and we helped the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian families and Hungarian companies in an extraordinary period. The second claim, unfortunately also inaccurate, was that interest rates had not changed for years. In this regard, I would like to say that for a very long time, the base rate in Hungary has indeed been 0.9 percent, which is also historically very low, and even the lowest level of interest rates in the Hungarian economy. Then I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the summer, the Monetary Council has reduced the base rate in two cases, so the truth and the reality is that at present the base rate is 0.6 percentage points, thus helping the Hungarian economy during this extraordinary period. The operation of the foundations was also affected by several claims. I would just like to mention the facts here. The foundations were established in 2014; the funds of the foundations were HUF 266.4 billion; according to the latest available data at the end of September, HUF 278.4 billion. It can therefore be seen that the foundations functioned and functioned in a way that served Community objectives, education, culture, and other purposes, while preserving and even increasing their wealth. Several Members have touched on the issue of sovereign debt management and the structure of public debt. Still, I think you've been bypassed a lot of your facts here, which is worth fixing. So the figure of 20,000 billion and the figure of 32,000 billion in public debt were mentioned here, that the debt ratio increased from HUF 20 000 billion to HUF 32 000 billion. If we use this number, it must always be added that the HUF 20 000 billion was generated at a very high interest rate level, and these high interest rates were calculated in HUF for several years, so the Hungarian State had to add these high interest rates to the government debt every year. So when we are looking for the reason for the increase in public debt, it is very important to mention this. However, the level of interest expenditure on the budget is a very important issue. I think it's worth staying on the facts here, too. We can see that if we look at the rate of interest expenditure on the Hungarian budget in terms of annual income, i.e. annual GDP, then we can say that in the early 2010s this indicator was above 4 per cent, i.e. between 4 and 4.5 per cent of GDP, and at the moment it was close to 2 per cent. So this is about what has been cut off thanks to the fiscal and monetary policy of recent years. This means that 3600 billion HUF will be saved by 2019, expected by the end of this year at HUF 4800 billion. And I would like to say that sovereignty has come up many times in this context. Once again, there was no fact that, at the moment, behind the 32,000 billion-dollar government debt, the structure seems to be in the hands of 9050 billion, about 9000 billion Hungarian households, Hungarian families and Hungarian savers. So the interest paid for this is an increase in Hungarian families and serves the Hungarian economy. I think this is a very important difference compared to a time when more than half of the HUF 20 000 billion amount mentioned here was in the hands of foreign lenders, and accordingly, very high interest rates paid for it have mostly left the country. So here, basically, we managed to reverse the match and reduce the resulting external interest expenditure to a very low level. Again, I am responding to it because it was a very serious claim, and it is again a manifest error in the speech that central banks can buy sovereign debt on the second market or not. [[15.00]] Here it was said in the comment that it was against the law, no way, no way, and the rest. I would just like to emphasise in this regard that this is not a novelty. It is either that since the 2008-2009 crisis, both the ECB and the American Fed have been doing this practice much earlier, in a preventive manner, in violation of the laws, or that the knowledge of the honourable Member in this area is inaccurate. I think it's definitely about the latter. So the Hungarian National Bank followed the practice that the European Central Bank, the Fed in America, or any other major central bank in the region, the Polish national bank, thus, purchased sovereign debt on the second market in Europe. In this way, I would just like to emphasise these transactions, which the ECB is constantly examining in its annual reports, and has not raised any objections to this. I would like to stress that, within the legal framework, the central bank has done this action in compliance with the laws. Just to give you the figures here, what this year's action means in the case of 2020, it meant that this extraordinary year, caused by the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian National Bank was able to support fiscal, sovereign debt management and financing, and generally the stable functioning of the sovereign debt market through second-market purchases with nearly a thousand billion forints. It is worth noting here that this covered loan transaction also launched transactions with a volume of HUF 2200 billion, of which an additional HUF 2100 billion was published on the sovereign debt market, as the financial system used it to purchase sovereign debt. Overall, we are talking about the fact that by HUF 3100 billion, around 6 percent of GDP, we managed to support the Hungarian economy through these actions and ensure the stable functioning of its markets. Perhaps there was only one thought about the broker scandals here on a list. I would like to stress here that these cases are decades old. These were not started in 2010 and 13 and 15; these cases, which lasted for decades, where the central bank was not responsible, were not the cause of these cases, of their reconnaissance, but, on the contrary, revealed and made public the cases, and launched a solution process through this. This is not worth washing, or if someone makes these allegations, then I think it is worth adding. One thought is that by the time this year's performance is complete, this has been found several times. I think the President has also presented this in his introductory thoughts. This year, the Hungarian National Bank expects a 6-6.5 percent economic downturn. If we look at what this means in the international field, it is certain that we will be better than the average of the European Union, we will certainly be better than the average of the euro area. We are expected to achieve better here in the region than in the Czech Republic or Slovakia, but naturally we should stick to the facts, it seems that Poland or even the Baltic countries will suffer a smaller fall in GDP. This also shows that we need to monitor these trends and constantly prepare for the recovery of the economy as quickly as possible in 2021. I would no longer like to respond to allegations which were also mentioned here in the debate that inflation is 6 percent in Hungary. It is actually difficult to have a more serious professional debate at the level of the facts. I would like to emphasise here that the Central Statistical Office is carrying out the survey of inflation along best international practice, using the same practice as Eurostat. According to these facts, average inflation was 3.4 percent in 2019 and average inflation is expected to be 3.4 percent in Hungary in 2020. So in this regard, I can say that it is quite simply worth noting the CSF data, but then it is worth browsing Eurostat data and clarifying these comments on that basis. By looking at my papers, I think I've touched most of the questions. There were questions concerning the budget and the tax structure. In relation to these, I can say that this is basically the responsibility of the budget. As a ticket bank, I do not want to comment on what kind of tax measures may or may not take place here in the short term. I think that in the materials that the Hungarian National Bank has put on the table in recent years in relation to competitiveness, I say that the aim is to promote the long-term growth capacity and competitiveness of the Hungarian economy every time, I think that these issues, which have been raised here, have been comprehensively touched, and I can also say that we have placed them on the table of a wide-ranging debate. Perhaps one more thought, which has also repeatedly been said, is the link between the operation of the National Bank and the government. I tried to take notes on what was said. I basically wrote two directions. There was a claim that the National Bank might have said something like that to the government, or something like that was made. That was one direction. The other direction was that the National Bank criticized the government on several points, in competitiveness, making statements that, on the basis of the facts, were critical of the government's operation. Given that these two directions have crystallized for me from the comments, I can say from this point of view that I feel the National Bank is in place and doing its job. It does its job in such a way that it serves the rise and long-term interests of the Hungarian nation. I can say that this is what we will do in the coming years, and I would like to conclude with this. Allow me, too, to wish you all a blessed, merry Christmas near Christmas and, naturally, in view of the epidemic situation, that we should take care of each other and take care of our loved ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-12-16-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will ask Mr Gábor Varga, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, if you would like to reflect on anything.
u2020-12-16-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Vice-President for listening to the debate. [[Anita Kőrösi: It's her job!]] and parts of the debate which were not directly related to today's subject matter, the report, the report and its adoption. I think I had a fellow Member who tried to encourage me to speak. I think that the debate was actually going on without me or without me commenting on it, but I did not really want to speak as rapporteur for the Committee on Economic Affairs itself, because, as I said, we were talking about the 2019 Central Bank report, and if we had taken the subject, it would not have been 3 hours and 8 minutes, but we would have finished in about an hour. If we were looking at the professional debate, I think we would have stood before it, but in many cases there were rather debates that could take place in Parliament at any moment. I think that this is not really worthy of the fact that if we name a subject, we are not dealing with it, and we are not trying to discuss it, but we are trying to make a political issue out of it. On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I would like to thank the Central Bank for its report, its activities and what we have been able to cooperate in since 2013 with the current central bank. [[15.10]] After all, the third of the three conditions of the central bank, which Mr President has also said, is to shape Hungary's economic policy in agreement with the government, I think it is one of the most important criteria. Thanking everyone who participated in this debate, spoke to him in a positive and constructive manner, I think that, in closing today's debate, we can say that this was an effective debate, that everyone could express their views, and that it became clear to the outside world what standards and how the debate is going on. This week, an economist Péter Róna made a statement about a completely different case in which he recalled a historical personality, and allow me to be the chairman, István Hiller, who is a historian, to quote Talleyrand, who made a statement at the conference in 1814 that had become a hotel today, if I can recall it correctly, about the fact that the Bourbons had learned nothing and forgot nothing. I believe that we have heard a number of speeches by the opposition on which we could safely bring this sentence here. I think it is 2020 and this 2020 is no longer 2000 and 2010. In the debate, entitled the 2019 accounts of the Central Bank, it is worth focusing on this whole thing. Joining the previous speakers, I would like to wish everyone a blessed and peaceful Christmas and, if possible, a much, much happier year by 2021. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-16-89	Thank you very much, personally. Dear Parliament, The amendments will be submitted, and I will inform you that Thursday will be at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, At last we understand the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Among these, the LMP's group leader, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, will be the first to give his speech on equal opportunities. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-90	Thank you, Mr. President. In my speech, I would like to present the proposals put forward by the Second Reformor Foundation for a debate, entitled "Equal Opportunities, a Stronger Nation." Proposals to create a chance-creating public education.- The most serious problem of Hungarian public education is that it does not create equal opportunities for children in different social situations, it does not reduce, but strengthens and regenerates existing social differences. The PISA surveys carried out every three years also show that there is hardly any developed country that would do worse in terms of equal opportunities. In 2015, the economic, social and cultural background of the students' performance was the most determined in all measured areas, and the situation has not improved significantly since then. Of course, the family background has an impact on children's performance, the question is that Hungarian public education is able to alleviate disadvantages, and, like other developed countries, it gives at least the chance of ascent. Unfortunately, the answer is no. This is unacceptable from a moral point of view, because equal opportunities apply to all children. But it is also unacceptable on the side of national interests always referred to by the government. We must admit that the lack of education to create opportunities is detrimental to society as a whole. Because of the negative social situation, students are more likely to be out of the labour market or to work with less added value; they are more likely to need social and health expenditure, they are able to take a smaller share of public burdens. Inequality reduces the economy, reduces the total amount of goods that can be distributed, and ultimately significantly undermines the prospects of all Hungarians. The best investment for Hungary is to invest in its own citizens, people. It is unthinkable to catch up if the Hungarian state has already resigned from a certain part of society. We ask the government to acknowledge that creating public education is one of our most important national issues. We ask the government to acknowledge that equal opportunities must also be a foundation for a social democrat, a liberal or a Christian Democrat. We ask the government to admit that it is a disgrace that we are last in this and take fundamental and rapid, immediate steps to change. This can be helped by the second Reformkor Foundation's package of proposals for discussion, the introduction of a single nine-class primary school with the development of a ground-breaking year, while reducing lexical knowledge and strengthening the development of basic skills. In the first years of primary school, we have the best chance of reducing the disadvantages from home and preventing the emergence of permanent delays. The transformation of the curriculum and the foundation class would help with this. But there would also be other positive benefits to the nine-class system: it would eliminate early selection. Research shows that the earlier the option of choosing a type of school opens up, the worse the ability of an education system to create a chance. This is also happening very early in Hungary in an international comparison, which would not be the case in the case of a single nine-class primary school. It would also be necessary for the government to recognise more specifically the pedagogical work in the break-down areas. This could be a differentiated wage increase or at least support housing. It would be a step forward if, instead of the current one-year and small amount of aid, the State were to enter into a genuine alliance with the school programmes for disadvantaged students. Long-term, predictable, political-free and greater amounts of aid would be needed. The question of language learning must also be highlighted. As long as public education is unable to provide an adequate quality of foreign language education for all students and parents are forced to pay private lessons, the children of poorer families suffer another disadvantage, since they cannot afford to pay for it. It would therefore be worth temporarily supporting the extracurricular education of socially dependent students. Easing equal opportunities If every school had a well-equipped school library available to all needy students, it would compensate for any poor home conditions in preparation for lessons and orientation. Finally, it would be extremely important to restore free textbook selection. You have to open the textbook market, you have to reinstate the right of choice to those who know best what students need for teachers. The freedom to choose textbooks is not only about the quality of education, the professional freedom of teachers, but also about equal opportunities, because different needs require different methods and different textbooks. These proposals are only important examples, and it would be up to the government to start creating public education immediately. This is indeed one of our most important national issues today. These are, therefore, the proposals put forward by the Second Reformor Foundation. Allow me to wish everyone a blessed, peaceful Christmas on my last speech this year. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-91	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, is following: This is the year 2020 in the shadow of the pandemic.
u2020-12-16-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all those involved or involved in the management of this epidemic. I would also like to express my sympathy to the families of my fellow countrymen who have lost their relatives as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. When the first wave appeared, we could already see that Hungarian society was in huge trouble. When the epidemic arrived, they were confronted with the fact that they had no savings ahead of the epidemic and had lost their jobs and were exposed to additional health risks that were already visible at the first wave. Meanwhile, the Orbán government started to manage the first wave with a series of rapid, opaque measures. I remember the days in February-March when thousands of volunteers in our country sewed masks because the government didn't provide the proper protective equipment. And it was clear that these measures did not help Hungarian society. I also remember when thousands of Hungarian people went to help those in need, as the government left hundreds of thousands on the side of the road. And especially in segregations, gypsy communities, he had a problem that not only was there a huge shortage of detergents, but when digital education was introduced overnight, people practically didn't know how to solve it. After all, we all know that the only breakout point for Gypsy children was to remain in the education system and to support it there. [[15.20]] We also saw that after the first wave came down, in the summer the members of the Orbán government did not focus on preparing for the second wave, which was already known to arrive at that time, but practically released the Hungarian people's hands and released the virus itself. What were you guys doing this summer? With the exploitation of Lake Balaton, for example, sailing ports, coastal properties and other campsites were practically released and the Lake Balaton was sold. We opposition representatives have always stood up for the fact that, after the change of government, we will review these offshore constructions and, of course, we will stop the expansion of the oligarchs. What else was summer about? There should have been a preparation to deal with the economic crisis in addition to the health emergency and crisis when the second wave arrives. But what happened? One of the biggest losers of the economic crisis is the municipalities themselves. While in Europe, in neighbouring countries, they were given a helping hand to the municipalities and supported them, the Orbán government left the municipalities with withdrawal, bleeding and immobilisation to deal with the epidemic and to deal with the situations for which local authorities have the greatest opportunity on the ground. The municipalities were exemplary, and thank you for it. Thank you to all those who helped us to reach the point where the second wave here at the top is now secured and accessible to everyone. But we can't rest, there's a lot to do, and in these situations, we really need to get together and really get there to help each other and look out for each other. After the difficulties of 2020 we know that we have a huge task ahead of us in 2021: we have to overcome this invisible virus and I cannot help each other to stress it. This is my last speech here this year, within the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. I wish you, everyone, a blessed Christmas, but perhaps the most important thing: very good health, and really listen to each other, because we can only win together. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-16-93	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Varga-Damm, an independent Member, will be following:, What did we get rich in 2020? It's an address. And I apologize to Congresswoman for her turn in the line. There was no awareness, unfortunately, of the pulpit, but you simply can't see the place where you work. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the last speech in 2020 and in this I would like to answer the question of how we got rich in 2020. Mostly with experience, because the budget has become poor, along with about a million of our countrymen. I called the year 2020 the year of clarification in January, and I didn't even think how much is really clear in our public life this year. Our society has gained so much new experience this year that it would be enough for a lifetime. In January, for example, we experienced the fact that the 13th century You can beat a man to death in front of people walking in the district without anyone noticing. Then this month we got to know the vision of Fidesz MEP L. Simon László that the Ministry of Justice has Communist sleepers. And then February came along, and the government realized that the prison business you created was a little too much for criminals and lawyers, and since then, you've been struggling to come up with new laws, so that if you can't get away with the damages, at least not for the criminals, but for the victims. We also learned in February that the Prime Minister of Hungary is still a very poor man, but also that there must be a drug addict among the Fidesz because they would not allow me to discuss my proposal for a drug test by the Members of Parliament. Of course, by November, we found out why. By March, the pandemic has arrived, since God and biology are often excluded from the calculation by politicians. In the course of the epidemic, we learned that the government had no scenario of what to do and who to do at this time in the world, so there was a small emergency law of power cementing with a lot of nonsense. Meanwhile, the KDNP became enlightened and was about to terminate the European Convention on Human Rights. Then, by April, Easter, the Prime Minister gave the Sanctuary: get everyone together and know what to do on Easter! The rich didn't want to play their part in the fight against the epidemic, they took their money from the municipalities. Airplanes were flying around the world for protection, but we still don't know what it cost or where the devices are. By May, the casino's money laundering business went to Garanchi and fired two top-notch hospital directors in the middle of the epidemic, while the defense was based on invention. The asset laundering of trust funds has started, which has continued until this week. In June, even in the Fidesz circles, the train frequency was confusing, and we were able to rejoin the national consultation, which we simply called national insults. We learned by July that our prime minister was not thinking about creating a welfare state, he said that this was no longer a functioning structure, so kind people, heading for poverty, but the oligarchs didn't make a penny less. In July, the pornographic Kaleta case shattered the mood of citizens, and then the EU budget debate began, which ended with extortion back and forth this week. In August, the resistance of the theater students started to grind the university, the re-enactment of Balaton real estate to government circles continued, and the Belarusian dictator also cheated the elections there. The world couldn't get rid of this running fool, but at least in November I managed to get rid of the other fool. In September, budget money opened up again to the pals, while hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs because of the epidemic. Then, by September, our till-sleeping president of the Republic just opened his mouth, but he did it completely unnecessarily. In October, then, parliamentary governing parties, in association with opposition parties, took away their fundamental rights to independent Members, probably afraid of their political power. Then the government raised the wages of health workers while they were all tied up with a leash with their new law. Meanwhile, the opposition lost the extremely important Borsodi individual interim election. By November, terrorism in Europe has multiplied, and very smart European politicians cannot find these solutions, and the government has also learned to submit an emergency bill that can be voted on in Hungary. In the midst of the outbreak of the Crown Virus, the government submitted more than 50 legislative proposals to the Parliament that were completely unnecessary. By December, however, we learned what mankind had never known before, even though billions of people were born in this way, that the woman was the mother and the man was the father, and now our basic law, born in the midst of two homosexual male parties, is included. So we became rich with much experience, but we were poor with the deaths of many great Hungarian people. By 2021, I wish for all of us, which is also the result of this wise saying: great thoughts come from the heart, small thoughts from the pocket and right thoughts from the mind. Happy New Year to all of us!
u2020-12-16-95	Thank you very much, thank you. Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik's representative, follows:. Greetings to the public. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, this year we have thanked many of our countrymen for their sacrifices, and let me now thank about 90 thousand of our countrymen who work in public employment, whose sacrifices our settlements are beautiful, orderly, wonderful. Yes, you know, they are the people who, with the work of their hands, for example, in spring, in the spring wind, dig gardens and plant flowers in our public areas, in summer, in the scrambled heat, mow grass along the roads, in autumn, in rain and mud, collecting leaves, and in winter in snow and frost, yes, the snow, if it falls, is cleaned away from roads, sidewalks and bus stops, so that local residents can travel, and besides doing a number of useful and valuable work. In Somogyország, for example, they have recently produced square stones, growing vegetables, acidification, and many handicraft products. Do you know how these people work eight hours a day, and at the end of the month, how much money do they get? 54,000 forints. [[15.30]] Yes, you heard me, fellow Members, these people are working for 54 thousand forints. This is unfair, humiliating and unworthy. It is unfair because if we are trying to achieve equal pay for equal work in Europe, in the European Union, then perhaps Hungary should first set an example. But this HUF 54,000 public employment wage is half the Hungarian minimum wage, and it is only one fifth of the national average wage. That's really, I gotta say, unfair. And it's humiliating, because how do we think that out of 54,000 forints, someone can make a decent living and raise their children fairly? Allow me to share with you the words of György Bogdán, a public employee of Válolyi, who opened my eyes that he does not actually earn 54 thousand forints, but a total of 31,000 forints. How is that possible? I would ask you nicely, with HUF 22 800 in his view, even if you do nothing, under the promotion of a replacement for employment. So you work eight hours a day for 31,000 forints. I think it's really humiliating. And last but not least, it's unworthy. It is unworthy because it is known that the vast majority of public workers are Fidesz voters. And what has the Fidesz government been doing all these years? While wages have increased in Hungary and pensions have increased at least in terms of inflation, the public employment wage has been unchanged for years and has not increased by HUF 54,000. All they want is a decent wage for a decent job. And I am now channeling their request, their voice, and I hope that you will hear it here, and that you will consider, as a first step, at least in terms of inflation, to increase this benefit. And, of course, in the future, everything must be done to enable these people to enter the labour market, to do so, but at the same time, we have to admit that unfortunately, there are parts of the country, including Somogyország, where they do not have the opportunity to do so. So once again, I would like to thank you with great respect for the sacrifices and sacrifices of nearly 90,000 public workers, and I wish everyone a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a happy new year rich in success and, above all, health! Mr President, thank you for listening.
u2020-12-16-97	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai, the representative of the Dialogue, the notary of the National Assembly, is next, what has 2020 brought to the citizens of Buda? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Indeed, the question is what 2020 has brought us, citizens of Buda. Obviously, in connection with most of the developments, we cried or laughed with the Hungarians, the Hungarians, the Europeans or the inhabitants of the planet Earth, but there are some issues that we were particularly involved in. For example, the Fidesz government attacked its own citizens, attacked the Hungarian authorities, in particular Budapest and the Buda districts. He attacked them by making cuts against them, by raising taxes and removing powers from local authorities. Constraints, when they reduced their income during the epidemic, in which the districts and the capital were the first line of defense, and acted more effectively and responsibly than the government itself. It was then that it took revenues, such as the very important revenues from parking charges, and that caused double damage, as it not only reduced the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities, but also made air quality worse, thus increasing the health of all of us and the symptoms of those suffering from Covid. Tax increases were made when the solidarity tax and utility tax on the Buda districts were raised three to four times. Budapest and the districts of Budapest became the victims of this by tens of billions. And powers have been taken away, perhaps the most important of which is the withdrawal of the powers of building authority, the consequence of which is that more and more of Buda's green areas are subject to illegal or, at least, to natural damage. That, no, there are always Fidesz-near oligarchs and businessmen supported by these Fidesz-led government offices, in the vicinity of the Apáthy Rock, at the Árpád Lookout, and names such as László Szíyj or a business associate of Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. But this year, the assassination of the Radetzky barracks, the II. 95 percent of the 180-year-old building on district Bem Square is to be destroyed, and once again only the Fidesz government has provided assistance in a completely illegal, even against the law. For this reason, I also appeal to the Constitutional Court with a motion, and I thank my fellow opposition Members, who supported this with their signature. But another news from the district is that there is also a luxury investment in OPNI's place, something that will exclude most of the people in the district. Even though we could be happy that there will be an educational institution, once it is built on public funds, it will be supported by public funds, but it will be a private school with high tuition fees, and to this end people living in the service apartment will be evicted and forced out of their legally used apartment. This is also completely insufferable, outrageous, and what we have in common is that we have never heard that Mihály Varga, the parliamentary representative of the district, who would otherwise have a great influence on the government as finance minister, would have spoken out to the people of Buda to protect the values of Buda. On the contrary, he was often the flagship of these campaigns against the Buda people, and, of course, he had time, attention, will to build a 55 billion-dollar palace in the Castle by public money for his own ministry, or rather the Széllkapu investment, which was made with many years of delay and billions of overspending, he was entrusted to one of his former college roommates, who then renewed the space, which was in a really shameless condition, by the 90-percent concrete, 10 per cent green. So, to live with the 2008 Mihal Varga, placing on the corruption rankings is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. In this case, the fact that we are in 70th place on this ranking alone is his responsibility, and therefore no Buda tears when he announced that he would not start again in 2022 in his constituency. As a local congressman, he failed, and we hope he's better off. There's good news from the end of the year. There is a new political community in formation called Buda Green, which not only shows itself in online space, but increasingly in physical reality, we also launched a newspaper with this title, the first number of which can be held in the hands of our dear neighbours in Buda in the next few days, so for my part I wish every citizen of Buda a peaceful, happy, healthy, pleasant holiday, and in 2021 do not forget: more green, less orange! Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-99	Thank you very much. What's happening in Újpesten? Mr László Varju, MEP, Democratic Coalition, please.
u2020-12-16-100	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this last day of this year's meeting of the fact that it is indeed an interesting one, and I think I would like to give you information about the good news, even because the European project is linked, and the possibility of what it is really worth following in the future in such projects at home, in Újpesten. In the name of Újpest's gate, an area renewal program, a city rehabilitation program is launched. According to the tender, which has already been won by the district, the municipality will implement it as one of its elements within the framework of the integrated urban development strategy. The body of representatives has decided that this is closely linked to the development of the city, and therefore, in fact, it is in the district, marking a part of it, real development in an action area that, I think, is important for the district. This is a renewal of the area of merit, where the living conditions of the population, the residents and the people of Újpest are changing and improving, which is why I think it is worth paying great attention to. Building a park, building a playground, but more importantly, it is built to accommodate people from very bad conditions, where, according to a continuous decision taken by the municipality, new apartments can be acquired by the Municipality of Újpest, then by the tenants. [[15.40]] In addition, not only the local government but also civil society organisations are involved in the whole project, and cooperation has been established as a church organisation, and I think that this is very important and that it will expand and develop our local relations. The first substantial step was also taken in September, when the project included the foundation stone of a condo with 30 apartments, which we also visited a few days ago with Mayor Tibor Déri. This is in István Károlyi Street. This construction is progressing, and I hope that it will achieve the situation at an appropriate pace that, as an important element of this project, it will be implemented, and other such places will also be launched. It is important to stress that the project does not mean only physical investments, but it is linked to events that support human relations, social relations and at the same time create an attitude, intensive social work, and therefore, I believe that it serves the population particularly well. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that what is now being built in Újpesten is in any event for development, even in circumstances where the government itself puts the Municipality of Újpest in a particularly difficult position by taking away a number of resources to launch or carry out such a project. That is why I think it is very important for the government to think about it once again, and yes, it is like this, but here it specifically wants to support the project in Újpest, and those expanding opportunities or additional resources are required by the Újpest people, and they are waiting for it to continue to ensure that and, if necessary, complement the resources necessary for its implementation, so that the Bocskai-Berda block, if it is demolished, can then be a very nice park, not far from there with a real rental house, residential and renovated apartments to serve the Újpest people. I believe that the management of the municipality can provide the necessary conditions for all of this, and I hope that it will be completed and handed over next year. To have the strength and the opportunity to do so, perhaps it is worth stopping for a moment at this time. I wish everyone involved in this project, but I wish everyone, of course, peaceful happy holidays and success by 2021. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-12-16-101	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, Democratic Coalition: How long can a country be kept a lie? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-12-16-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The thing is, I never thought a government could go to such an infantile depths as the current government. It is not a question of who won and who lost, but of how long a country can be kept lying. And let's not beat around the bush, because perhaps the original sin of the current governing parties was a sick attraction to lies and public money. Remember the speech at the funeral of Imre Nagy, from Orbán to the Russians home! And remember that Orbán didn't actually risk anything at the time, because he knew very well that Miklós Németh and Gorbachev had agreed at the time, so that the tanks were already on the railway. But we can also remember that Orbán lied a few years later when he said at several press events that he had knocked the first brick out of communism with his speech. And unfortunately, the Prime Minister's political career is accompanied by a series of lies, but not only that. After all, the attraction to public funds and their conversion to private wealth now also describes a well-traceable curve from the Fidesz headquarters scandal to our day, to the billion-dollar wealth of the Butchers, the family of the Prime Minister and the national oligarchs. Many have written about this in many ways. I'm afraid you won't be able to add a lot of new ones, but only if democratic change is done legally, and new justice will reveal new events in this regard. What is special about all of this is the last few years, I could say that the past months, weeks and days have happened; the fact that the Prime Minister, who is himself a self-declared, wealthless and honest politician, is fleeing from the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and from the calling on him as a threat to the future, or from the EU's conditions of financing bound to the rule of law. Now we know that in every case the initial threat, Orbán's large political plans, is bound to fail. He has become a pariah of the European Union, one who is now known, from whom, if he appears somewhere, they are packing the silver Escayge. Orbán's European colleagues have learned. We know that the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been established, and perhaps in these very moments today, the European Parliament will adopt either the rule of law framework or the budget of 2021, which Orbán, we know very well that it threatened with veto. The V4 that never really worked fell apart, the Polish-Hungarian veto axis, or the Polish government quietly backed out in order to protect itself, no longer risked the domestic political crisis in the event of a veto, and perhaps not even the collapse of their government. Viktor Orbán is alone. Do we now know that, despite all the rumblings, he has accepted the package in which the rule of law continues to exist, and as an appendix, do you remember how he said it? , and an explanatory supplement on a tacepaon made on cheese paper. Write and say, Orbán's nomenclature is over, the golden age is over, the free robbery is over, the theft is over, and the Hungarian government wants to present it as a success in a manner that has been proven and developed since the dawn of the regime change. Where we can see that Orbán has suffered one of the greatest defeats of his life in the past few days, but this will not be the last loss. You can't keep a country lying any longer. The next failure will be the end of Fidesz and the whole filthy dictatorship; Orbán's departure from power and arrival in the world of law, where every penny, every bitter tear, the pain of the Hungarian people, the robbing of the country will have to be accounted for by Viktor Orbán and his gang. But let's put this aside. It's gonna happen, I could say, even if they want it or not. Christmas is coming. I really wish everyone a peaceful, happy, calm and healthy few days. We'll start over next year, with you guys, in the same place. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-16-103	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, an independent Member, is next:, Fidesz did not support constructive, professionally sound opposition proposals this year either. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2020-12-16-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to look back on this year as the last speaker in Parliament this year, after the agenda, and take into account the proposals submitted by various opposition representatives on the one hand, but, of course, I would like to talk primarily about the proposals tabled by myself to Parliament, which were constructive and professionally sound. I would like to remind everyone that, at the beginning of the epidemic, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked that the opposition parties be constructive, which should be decisive in the next period. And I did not comply with the Prime Minister's call or request, but I also think that as Members of Parliament, it is our responsibility at any time, and now, in particular, in the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic, to draft these motions in this way. Unfortunately, however, I had to experience this year, too, that these well-rounded, constructive proposals, agreed with professional organisations, were already voted out in committee by the pro-government representatives. This has happened, by the way, with numerous opposition proposals, proposals tabled by representatives of various political groups, and unfortunately, this has also happened with the proposals I have made. Let's see what motions I submitted this year. I will start with my proposal to improve the situation of Volan workers and passengers. In this context, I welcome the fact that substantial steps have been taken and at least a certain level of progress has been achieved in this respect. Of course, in this case, this was done not by adopting the proposal that I have tabled, but by putting certain parts of it into practice, but I am also pleased and appreciate it as a success. I also tabled a motion to test workers and residents in social institutions. In this, too, certain movements started over time, which is definitely positive, but it can be said as the year ends that, overall, in the case of testing, the government has not passed a good test at all. I wanted to give universities the opportunity to offer taofel with the aim of increasing the quality of Hungarian higher education. Unfortunately, this proposal has been canceled. As well as with my independent fellow Members, we have also tabled a proposal for a decision in the interests of nurses. Here, too, there were some partial solutions in the area. I would also like to bring in the adoption of EU coronal virus tests, which is very important for commuters, and at least one test has been accepted here. Unfortunately, in the case of commuters, my proposal to abolish 30 kilometres and 24 hours has not yet been adopted, but it would also be very important to help businesses, which have also been very bad because, let's say, on the western border, much fewer people from Austria have come from this period. I also tried to make it clear how they could do this with my video in German. In specific cases, free tests, support for micro- and small businesses, to which I have just referred; support for health professionals in primary care, since they have been left out of the wage increase, unfortunately, this proposal has also been rejected. And my motion for free testing of factory workers will be discussed next year by the commission. I am confident that you will support it, but, on the basis of what has been said, unfortunately, I have doubts about this, and these proposals have generally been swept down by forced, circumstantial arguments at committee level. Many times, the government representatives themselves felt that they should be supported, but they did not do so. But I can mention my actions for cultural workers, the area of tourism, catering and especially those active in rural tourism, which is of particular importance here in Vas county. I also tried to help the municipalities of Vas county with budgetary amendments. For example, I also tabled such a motion for Szombathely, but unfortunately it was not supported from a pro-government perspective. I would also like to bring the Markusovszky Hospital case here, because I have also taken concrete steps on this, and I will continue to do so. As the only opposition parliamentary representative in Vas County, I will continue to be the president of the Joint Vas County Association, and I will do what I can, and as the voice of Vas County, I will try to represent the people of Saturday and the neighborhoods, as well as all those living in Vas County. Finally, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my deepest condolences to all those who have lost relatives in the current situation in the case of a coronal virus epidemic and to thank everyone for their work this year. I wish everyone a happy, peaceful Christmas and a happy New Year! Let's take care of each other. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-12-16-105	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first part-session of the spring ordinary session of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. I thank you for your year-round work. It's been a hard, bitter year. To all my fellow Members, to the ethnic advocates, to the staff of the Parliamentary Office and to all those who monitor our work here in our country, in the Carpathian Basin and around the world, I wish you health in the first place! On behalf of the Hungarian Parliament blessed peaceful Christmas, have a good rest! I sincerely hope, Honourable Parliament, that the following year will bring more joy, happiness, success and good cheer. Take care of yourselves, take care of each other here in Parliament and across the country, all over the world we live in. I wish you all the best. Goodbye.
