u2020-05-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. The 22nd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be assisted by Attila Gelencsér and notary György Lukács. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, General debates will take place on our sitting today. I call on the Members involved in this debate, if possible, only the two Members who spoke in the debate and who then asked to speak, to remain in the Chamber in order to preserve the health of all of us. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting, i.e. in the present case, I shall provide information. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the necessary amendment of certain tax laws to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic will follow up until closure. Government referral T/10314. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert Izer, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-05-07-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The government is committed to increasing employment and reducing the burden on employment. We have taken and will continue to take a number of measures to achieve this goal. Among these steps is the reduction of the employer's tax, the social contribution tax, which is included in the bill before you. In recent years, tax policy has focused on reducing the tax and administrative burden on labour and businesses and on simplifying the tax system. For example, in order to reduce the tax burden on businesses, we introduced simplified forms of taxation, such as the specific tax on small businesses, the so-called kata and the small company tax, also known as the kiva. In addition, benefits from employers' social contributions tax have been constantly increased in recent years. The upper limit for applying the discounts was increased from the previous HUF 100,000 up to the minimum wage. According to the agreement concluded by the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government on 24 November 2016, the rate of the social contribution tax decreased from 27 per cent from 1 January 2017 to 22 per cent and from 1 January 2018 to 19,5 per cent. During last year, the tax rate on employers was further reduced by 2 percentage points from 1 July 2019 to 17.5 per cent. In view of the emerging epidemiological situation, the Government will, within the framework of the Economic Protection Action Plan, initiate the next phase of the social contribution tax reduction from 1 July 2020 to help businesses recover from the economic downturn caused by the emergency. Therefore, according to the amendment submitted, the rate of tax will decrease from 17.5 per cent from 1 July 2020 to 15.5 per cent. With the adoption of the bill, the government leaves no less than HUF 160 billion to businesses this year, and next year more than HUF 330 billion. I think it is important to point out that, following the implementation of the VKF agreement, we will also be at the forefront of the European Union as regards the public burdens of work. As far as the benefits from the social contribution tax are concerned, the rate of the benefit varies in line with the reduction in the tax rate, so anyone who receives a full exemption from the social contribution tax should benefit from a discount of 15.5 per cent, while the tax liability for the 50 per cent will therefore be 7,75 per cent. As a result, labour market disadvantaged groups such as newcomers to the labour market, women with three or more children who enter the labour market continue to offer significant benefits to the employment of unskilled workers. Moreover, the rules on the specific tax on small-tax enterprises are being amended to a positive degree. In addition to an unchanged tax liability, the cash benefits received by the full-time taxpayer, such as ged or sick money, are also increased. As a result, from HUF 98 100 to HUF 102 000 for the payment of the HUF 50 thousand item tax, while from the payment of the higher rate, the supply fund will increase from HUF 164 thousand to HUF 170 thousand for the payment of the HUF 75 thousand item tax. In the context of the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax, the simplified public liability contribution, also known as the echo rules, is amended, according to which the Echo charged to the paying agent is also reduced from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent. Dear House, The reduction of the social contribution tax therefore results in a number of positive changes for employers and workers as well as a tax reduction for other tax types. The submitted bill proposes a number of forward-looking amendments, the introduction of which has a particularly positive impact on Hungary's competitiveness and the re-launch of the economy in the current epidemiological situation. These amendments also affect profit taxes on enterprises for their purposes. Allow me to highlight, first of all, a positive proposal on corporate taxation in the area of profit taxation. A tax benefit in corporate tax has been available for a longer period under the development reserve. With regard to this benefit, the bill would allow for an amendment that could have an explicit incentive to invest in the next few years. The main point of the proposal is that for companies planning investments in Hungary over the next four years, the profits to be invested may be fully exempt from corporate tax. Under the current rules, the development reserve can be used up to half of the pre-tax profit, i.e. up to 50 per cent, according to the amendment, this benefit can be used for the full profit by the fact that the amount put aside for the investment should not exceed HUF 10 billion. As far as the investment is concerned, four years remain available. Continuing with the range of measures concerning profit taxes, I would like to highlight the small company tax amendment, according to which the small company tax rate would be reduced from 12 per cent to 11 per cent, in line with the reduction in the social contribution tax. In addition, the bill contains rules on the special tax on the disease of banks. In addition to their general public burden, credit institutions have also contributed a special tax on budgetary revenue since 2010. The purpose of the epidemiological special tax shall be to increase the resources available for the eradication of the epidemiological situation. This planned payment could cost some HUF 55 billion in the budget. The banks are charged on a one-off basis with the payment obligation, but the amount paid at this address will be recovered in the form of a tax retention, deducted equally from the bank tax over the next five years. The regulation therefore includes the measures already introduced by the Government by means of a regulation, and thus the provision of an equal amount of description in the bill over five years constitutes a new element. Honourable Members, The bill will help to protect both jobs and the economy, in line with the objective of the economic protection action plan adopted by the government, and I therefore ask you to support and accept this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speakers will now be held, first by Mr Mihály Witzmann, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10314 in front of us. There are several points that I would like to make in my speech by the lead speaker, which are important points in the bill amending certain tax laws to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. As we have just heard in the Minister of State's exposé, the main elements of the proposal are the reduction of the rate of the social contribution tax and the amendment of the related legislation, the reduction of the corporate tax limit on investments and the regulation of the special tax on credit institutions. Dear House, The reduction of the rate of social contribution tax is not new in Hungary, as tax reduction measures of this kind have already been taken in several steps, scheduled in recent years, according to the government's decisions. If we recall, in 2016, there was still 27 percent of this type of tax. [[9.10]] With the adoption of the current bill, this tax burden can be further reduced to 15.5 percent. The reduction may take effect from 1 July 2020 and therefore, as a whole, the aforementioned 27 per cent tax rate may be around 11.5 per cent lower due to the fiscal policy of the past period. The reduction in the rate of the social contribution tax has in recent years, as I have just mentioned, taken place gradually and in a timely manner, which is intended primarily to help improve the competitiveness of the domestic economy and reduce the tax burden. As we have already heard from the Minister of State, according to the agreement concluded on 24 November 2016 between the competition sphere and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government, the rate of the social contribution tax has decreased from 27 per cent in the first step from 1 January 2017 to 22 per cent, with a further decrease from 1 January 2018 to 19.5 per cent. Last year, the rate of tax fell further, as stated in the original agreement, so it changed from 1 July last year to 17.5 percent. According to the above-mentioned agreement, the next reduction in the tax rate would have taken place in autumn of this year, i.e. October 2020, but the government decided, precisely because of the epidemiological situation and its negative effects on the economy, to initiate the next phase of the reduction of the social contribution tax in the framework of the Economic Protection Action Plan and thus to achieve a new tax reduction from 1 July 2020. With this step, as I have just mentioned, from the first day of the second half of this year, from 1 July 2020, the tax rate will decrease by another 2 percent, from 17.5 to 15.5. The proposal also includes, in the context of a reduction in the rate of social contribution tax, a reduction in the rate of small enterprise tax and a clarification of both the rules on personal income tax, the specific tax on small companies and the simplified public burden-sharing contribution. In line with the reduction in the tax rate, the rate of the benefit also varies. Thus, employers may benefit from a full exemption from the social contribution tax up to 15.5 per cent of the minimum wage, up to a higher ceiling for certain benefits, while, in the case of the 50 per cent, they may apply a discount of 50 per cent of the tax rate up to the minimum wage, i.e. in the latter case the tax liability will be only 7,75 per cent. With regard to the modification of the rules on the specific tax on small-tax enterprises, i.e. the so-called 'cata', it can be said that, under unchanged tax liability, the cash benefits received by the full-time taxpayer are increased either for example in the case of ged or in the case of sick money. As a result, the payment of the 50 thousand HUF item tax increases from 98 100 HUF to 102 thousand HUF, while the above-mentioned supply fund increases from 164 thousand HUF to 170 thousand HUF when paying the higher rate of 75 thousand HUF item tax. The simplified public burden-sharing contribution, so-called echo rules, is also being amended. The Echo charged to the paying agent is reduced from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent and the tax rate is reduced from 12 per cent by 1 percentage point to 11 per cent from 1 January 2021. Dear Parliament, As regards the specific tax on credit institutions, a new one-off obligation has been imposed on credit institutions at the level of the regulation, with the name of the specific tax on credit institutions relating to the epidemiological situation, in order to ensure the resources necessary for the epidemiological control. The tax is payable for the tax year 2020 for a tax year of more than HUF 50 billion of the tax base of the special tax on financial entities. The rate of the special tax on credit institutions in relation to the epidemiological situation was set at 0.19 percent, with the expected revenue expected at around HUF 55 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these measures, as well as the economic protection plan I have already mentioned, will make a major contribution to the effectiveness of the control of the coronal virus epidemic, as well as to reducing the economic downturn caused by the epidemic. In order to provide budgetary coverage for the control of the coronal virus epidemic, the Government has also established a protection fund for the disease and the provision of revenue and resources for this fund is of particular interest in the effective steps taken in the control of the epidemiological situation. Dear House, Since the outbreak of the coronal virus epidemic, the government, in cooperation with the operational tribe and the established action groups, has already taken a number of decisions in order to protect the health of Hungarians from the disease. The epidemic, as we know, has not only health but also economic effects, which can be seen in the world's economies as well as in Hungary. The government has already taken a number of important decisions to reduce the economic downturn, which make a major contribution to preserving the results of the Hungarian economy so far. Among other things, the most important objective of the above-mentioned economic protection action plan developed by the government is to preserve jobs, i.e. to create at least as many jobs in Hungary as will be lost as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. This means that, in the case of short-term work, the government will take over 70 percent of the labour costs from employers and provide an additional 40 percent wage support for engineers and R &amp; D workers for three months. Another important measure is that investments will be supported for job creation of some HUF 450 billion. A further element of the economic protection action plan is that interest and guaranteed loans will be provided to Hungarian businesses in order to finance companies, with a total value of more than HUF 2000 billion. Economic protection decisions include tax cuts and a moratorium on credit repayment, which I think can help both individuals and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the title of the bill before us, the adoption of the proposal is absolutely necessary in order to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, as is the case with the Fidesz fraction, regardless of party affiliation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-07-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a taxpayer, as an employer, it is always very good to read that if tax cuts are made, because it can actually serve to increase employment, it can really be a solution to the problems that employers are facing right now. In this bill, which does not contain long and largely related measures, we have reached the next step in the direction of the social contribution tax already set in 2016, when it comes to reducing the tax burden of 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent. So this was decided already in 2016, and now you, linked to the economic protection action plan, are communicating it as another success propaganda. Obviously, this could help to reduce the employer's burden of the corona virus, but let's face it that this intention already existed in 2016. In the context of this tax reduction, the tax burden which has been adjusted to the rate of the social contribution tax will also be reduced, given the changes in the law. In the case of kiva, 11 percent from 12, which will only take effect from 2021; obviously, it is necessary for the entire tax year to enter into force only from 1 January. And by the way, the reduction in the level of the simplified public burden contribution is also in line with the reduction of the socho tax. What I would like to say in particular is to increase the supply base of the kata. That sounds very good and, of course, this can also mean a minimum increase when someone needs help. However, the increase in the supply base is calculated: in the case of a full-time taxpayer, this is HUF 3900, and in the case of a non-full-time taxpayer, HUF 6,000, so that will increase the supply fund. However, this is still a joke category, especially when taxpayers are confronted with the fact that they cannot do their job, they may have to terminate this activity and then go and claim a job-seeking allowance. [[9.20]] Well, it doesn't matter how big that supply fund is, and I don't think this HUF 3900 and HUF 6,000 is enough, and it can go about once, and then buy a few pastries from this increased supply at the store. And about the increase in the price of products related to child rearing, and how much this supply fund will help them, so I will note it in parentheses. Of course, it is very important, and I am very pleased that there is also a change from the point of view of corporate tax that can increase development at the expense of profits. So, of course, this is definitely a positive change if we don't think about it again, because you always communicate something as a success, and then we always have to think about what's behind it. Some points in the Economic Protection Action Plan are indeed forward-looking, but we also see that they are well suited to support different circles, which they do not miss out on, by the way. So it is clear again that, as the corporate tax will be dribbled back nicely over the years, then this will be a significant reduction in the central budget revenue of corporate tax; obviously you have calculated with these. The next topic is the credit institution special tax. Here, Mr. Secretary of State, you have already said in your expo that this is not an extra tax burden, but that it will be drained from your tax burden in just five years. Overall, the proposed legislation has some forward-looking features, but I consider this increase in the supply base for the low-taxing cadastrals to be extremely low. And here's one thing I'd like to discuss. Just yesterday, I got a call from a catalog operator who normally runs a catering unit that he was not exempted from the cost of paying the catalog, according to the TEÁOR, but he was locked up for a month and a half. And then the question is that, when they made a distinction with the 84 thousand caterers, for example, construction workers, who have been able to work completely and practically without restrictions throughout the past period, have been exempt from paying the kata, while operators of catering establishments who also chose this method of taxation had to close them and not them because of the coronal virus. This puts an enormous burden on these businesses. One more comeback to the problem of a job-seeking allowance. A lot of people are in a situation where they have to knock on the work center. Time is running out, and some of us have been waiting weeks for at least one feedback, that my friend, we've registered you. Unfortunately, it seems that this did not happen in all cases, there are particular problems with counties, which is also affected by Somogy County. In any case, it should be government help to do something, because those who do not have savings will encounter very serious problems, because it seems that many, more than 30 percent of the Hungarian population, have basically hit the coronal virus epidemic, possibly losing their job without saving, and families are in very great danger. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-6	Thank you very much. Mr János Harghitai, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. I'm going after two Somogy County speakers. I was wondering if there was a difference between the two somogy speakers. Well, the Fidesz Member obviously said what we think about crisis management and this law, but I also took the good out of the words of the better Member, and he always talks about tax laws as a professional because of his history, so he's bound to the facts, he can't say the same speeches as he usually does on the other side. Obviously, the Member states that where there is a small discount, it could be more, and we all agree with that. We think it's always possible to say a bigger number, but that's what we're capable of right now. Before I touch on the more important points of the specific law, let me remember two general things. One of them wants to go back to the debate on the coronal virus law: the unfair and unfair criticisms that have been spoken here in Parliament, and the trial of these two financial laws is eloquently disproved. At the same time, we have received from you that there will be a government of regulations here until the end of time, there will be no way to see the end of anything, and the devil has been painted in the sky, but this devil cannot be seen in any way. We're discussing laws that already calculate that the emergency will end. The government only has the means of movement for the time of emergency. Thank God you do, because you can respond quickly to certain questions, but since this emergency will be over, I am optimistic in this regard, and therefore the laws that the government has made must be accompanied by laws if we want certain regulations to remain alive after the emergency. There are practically examples of this in both draft laws. The other thing I would like to say before me is the agreement of 24 November 2016 between the government and employees. When I spoke about this here in Parliament, I also said, as a pro-government Member, that if we can hold this, it is a miracle in itself, because that is not what I used to do, that there are long-term agreements between the government and the economic sphere. One of the most important agreements in recent years, a decision by the government on this six-year wage agreement, and obviously compliance with it has contributed well to the dynamic growth of wages in Hungary, the increase in wages has generated internal consumption, and we have also enjoyed the beneficial budgetary implications of this, and all this unprecedentedly growing path, which the European Commission's analyses are confirming today, breaking up the epidemic situation, and then, when we are going to deal with next year's budget in a little while, we need to start the economic construction that needs to be done again in the knowledge of the pride of our achievements. These laws are basically what they do now. I could also say that the Hungarian budget has been in a situation where there is no need to think drastically about our tax policy so far than we thought in normal times of peace, and in times of such a crisis, we can keep our original ideas, which, for many years, has been about reducing wages and taxes on wages, and if we are forced to raise taxes, even for a temporary period, they should not be dependent on wages and employment, but on commercial activity and consumption. So we are not obliged to give up this position in any emergency, even if, here and there in this proposal, there are temporarily tax-enhancing items for certain sectors. Returning to this wage agreement, because this is the starting point of the draft law: it is important that we have always been able to comply with what the government has undertaken, because we reduced the social contribution tax from 27 per cent to 22 per cent in 2017, in one year to 19 per cent in 2019, and now, in 2020 as a result of the crisis, we can continue to keep the facilitations, further reduce the planned reduction to 15.5 per cent, and even move our planned decision forward as a result of the crisis because, in this respect, Anita Kőrösi is right that these decisions were made in advance to ease the economic sector, and the relief is already on 1 July 2020. The number we have heard from the Secretary of State is important to put 160 billion in the entrepreneurial world this year and to save 330 billion in the next budget year. [[9.30]] The bill and the expozé also mentioned that after the minimum wage, zero percent of this tax is tax, and where certain circles are taxed at a reduced rate, only 7.5 percent. It's obviously 50 percent. The bill also discusses the consequences. In the case of personal income tax, which has been mentioned here, the positive decision on small-scale small businesses: this is the area on which I said that the congresswoman considered the movements that are here to be small. There are positive directions, but obviously there could be more, I agree with him in this respect, but that is what we are now able to do. I refer also to the reduction of a simplified public burden-sharing contribution, from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent, and the reduction of the kiva tax from 12 per cent to 11 per cent from 1 January 2021. Credit institution special tax. Here is another separate sentence: I spoke about the general state of the Hungarian budget, and I said that we do not have to give up the tax policy thinking that we have already represented. With regard to credit institutions, I must note that the stability of credit institutions is an opportunity to temporarily, as a one-off deposit, help them by 55 billion, if you will, to control the epidemic. As I see it through the press, credit institutions have accepted it and are able to meet this amount. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Of course they can, because...]] And these will obviously be returned from the bank tax in five years. So we didn't even have to make these provisions permanent, and it seems that this is a one-off deposit, and they can write down their one-off payments for five years. Important decision on investments: In Hungary, thank God, relatively many foreign companies operate, in such a situation it is feared that their profits would be brought back to their mother countries to a greater extent. In order not to do this, therefore, with regard to the development reserve, which is already known in the legislation, we will make further facilitations, and up to 10 billion up to their entire profits can be used for this purpose, obviously within the country for the next four years, thus encouraging them to invest in Hungary. The bill basically gives benefits to the economic sphere and to the private people through it, and once again, it is consistent with the set of tax policy ideas that we have been representing for many years, and I think that we have represented successfully, so the KDNP faction is happy to support the draft law. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-8	Thank you very much. Mr László Szakács, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2020-05-07-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After two somogyi, two representatives from Baranya spoke to him. I would like to say in advance that the Hungarian Socialist Party, after we were the first to introduce the bank tax, will continue to support the introduction of a bank tax. The reviews have to be said. We see that the banks now have to pay 55 billion forints, because that's what the government asks them to do, but they get it back. You will get it back twice, ladies and gentlemen, once you write it off, and on the other hand you will publish the thousand-billion-dollar package of loans to the central bank, which, by the way, will receive roughly four percent of the margin. This means that some HUF 40 billion will remain with the banks. They'll get it back twice. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Exactly! Sounded good, by the way.]] We must put that aside, and in this I have a debate with the pro-government representatives, so that they can finally keep up the tax policy that does not help capital, but help workers. You're helping with the capital. This would be balanced if workers, workers, were to reduce the burden on wages to the same extent if they had twice their capital, twice their employer. If they are taken away from the municipalities, they will not be able to recover, not once, let alone twice, the funds which are now being withdrawn will be returned to the municipalities, since we also see that the local part of the tax that is being paid centrally has been withdrawn from the municipalities. Of course, we also need to think about why it is, why it is so tied to the government. This is because your government will once again defeat the banks so that if there is another victory like this, there will be no more soldiers, no more soldiers, no more honourable fellow Members. You first defeated the banks in 2015, when you concluded an agreement with the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, which otherwise has many points that go against the interests of the Hungarian people, but it serves the banks, and, for example, this agreement is still in place today, that the Hungarian Government undertakes not to make rules that would reduce the profitability of the banks, their profitability in any way. There is only one exception in this, if it is a European Union rule that obliges the Hungarian Government to do so. And we see that they do not now make a rule that really hurts banks; they do not make a rule that takes away from banks, they bring something that temporarily takes away from banks, and then return it at least twice. These banks make 600-700 billion forints a year in Hungarians in the last two or three years. We now have 55 billion forints to pay for the control of the epidemic, that is correct, this number could, of course, be bigger, but we do not think that the part of this proposal is right for the banks to get it back, not twice, because we see that the banking sector would tolerate it in this respect. What is still in the same balance sheet, as I said, is that, on the one hand, the reduction of the burden on workers, on wages, does not appear in the same way as the policy of the advantages granted to capital in tax policy; on the other hand, we believe that the most important thing is the financial and housing security of Hungarian families, and on the other hand, we see that once again, by complying with the 2015 EBRD agreement, in which the government has undertaken not to impose any obstacles to evictions, you refuse to suspend inmates, suspend immediate collections, and refuse to suspend payments to debt administrators. However, for Hungarian families, this would mean a great deal, the banking sector would be able to withstand it, and the debt management sector would be able to withstand it. And please don't get me wrong, this is not a moratorium on eviction, we all know that it's still going on, we all know that as long as there's an epidemic, it's going to last, but the families think that we can agree on this, at least they won't get in a better position, but they're going to be in a worse position because of the huge crisis, so it doesn't seem that when you have to start repaying the loans again, or mister's forgiveness, life starts, and the bailout will set the eviction date, then they'll be better prepared to accept it than they've received it, let's say, in the last year. We therefore ask that, if the banks are taxed in our view, they will not be dealt with as much as you think they will be dealt with because they will be returned twice, then they should take the side of the Hungarian people in order to suspend implementations, inks and immediate direct debits and payment obligations to debt managers during the emergency. This takes 30 percent, sometimes 50 percent, of the income of Hungarian families. [[9.40]] If they had savings, what they could expect now at this time of year, then unfortunately, the debt manager will also put his hands on it, too, the enforcer will put his hands on it. Therefore, we ask that the financial and housing security of the families be maintained and that the banks will probably be able to withstand it, we see from the figures, that you have to pay 55 billion forints of 700 billion, so the banking sector will be able to handle this, so I ask you to switch to the side of the families and stop this. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we will support this initiative. These criticisms are worth mentioning. And you have to tell them that once you've lost the government, don't give me back twice. If you do this, do not do it with multinational companies, not financial service providers, not banks, but put it with Hungarian employees, from the capital side to the people's side, the worker's side, the employee's side, help them, and stand on the side of the Hungarian authorities, which are in the first line of defense. They have done everything they can and will continue to do everything in the future, because they are the closest to the voters, and I think that they are, of course, as easily accountable as possible, and, of course, very conscientious. Yet at urban levels, compared to the size of the city, the withdrawal is usually between HUF 300 million and HUF 3 billion, which has to be paid into the central budget to the municipalities. We believe that these funds should be returned to them, not elsewhere, from the central budget. And one last thought. By the way, we think that companies should also be helped from the central budget, and this is a philosophical debate between us, so to speak. Because obviously the question about an economic package is who should be indebted to: the budget or the companies. You have chosen to be the companies. Companies take out loans. For many times, we say that if we have to take out a loan to pay the employee, then we are not at all sure that there will be a company, obviously, but that there will be a mass of companies that decide that now that they are in economic decline, they will take out loans. They do not see when the market will start again; they do not see what will happen to the segment in which they work, and therefore do not see how they will repay it. And the third one, in my view, is one of the most important questions, but it has to be said in a quieter way: will this loan be granted with the intention that companies can repay it so that the debtor can repay it? Because if it's not meant to be, it's a completely different method, it's called robbery credit. We're hoping they don't want to give loans like that to companies. We see the practice of this. In Germany, with a 90% state guarantee, commercial banks do not want to issue these loans, and companies do not want to take out loans. I know there's no agreement in the government on how big the budget deficit should be. According to the Prime Minister, it will be as big as it will be; according to Mihály Varga, they can keep the deficit targets; according to Matolcsy, the budget's deficit target will be even smaller. We believe that, if these funds are available, yes, the budget should take on these loans, issue bonds, and pay out from the budget as aid to companies, not as loans. The loan must always be repaid. I think that the countries that choose this path are doing well. It's not aid. These companies and the employees of these companies are needed, all they had to do was create rules for the protection of the disease that would prevent them from producing. They can't open or open, just us customers can't go in. These rules apply in Budapest today as well. Therefore, they cannot pay wages; they cannot pay rent; therefore, they cannot pay public burdens. I hope that these proposals are not too late, since we have been waiting for these proposals since 6 April. We remember, in the week preceding 6 April, the Prime Minister said in this House that he trusts that on 5 or 6 April he will be able to stand up with the largest economic rescue package possible, called historic. It's May 7th now. We know certain details of this, and regarding certain details, they can go either electronically or personally to deal with matters, whether they are companies or individuals, but many of the details are not known. I have some secret hope that the government has prepared a much more elaborate economic package for today and for the coming weeks than we could have heard at the Economic Committee. There I had the feeling that the government knew exactly what would happen in Hungary in 3-5 years, but did not know what would happen in 3-5 weeks. I was very pleased that it was very narrowly discussed at the time, because there was so much talk about greening public transport through the use of less pesticides! I tell you honestly, if many people had heard this, people who were in trouble, businesses, employees, Hungarian SMEs, if they had heard that this was the way of thinking and disputa at the Economic Committee meeting, I would probably have been polite in saying that there would have been no increase in confidence either in the government or in the legislative process. Therefore, we ask for immediate action. We ask for immediate action, by asking that the offices be prepared next to it so that they can accept the mass of the application, the weight of the applicant who is going there now. In the event of unemployment, I see that this has unfortunately failed. It is necessary to prepare the district offices, to prepare the offices which are being used to turn to them. Once again, in summary, the Hungarian Socialist Party, which has already introduced a banking special tax, will, of course, support this proposal with these criticisms by suggesting to the government that the banks do not receive this payment twice from the fact that they can write it off from the bank tax, once from the fact that they are transferring the MNB's credit, but let the Hungarian people receive it. If this is a barrier to the agreement with the EBRD in 2015, then that agreement must be terminated, because it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, but it would be in the interest of the Hungarian people to obtain as much resources as possible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-10	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, lead speaker of DK, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, When I was preparing to speak, I did not think that my suspicion of this material would be confirmed so quickly, that, in fact, the fact that you are presenting certain steps to Parliament now is, in essence, a very serious one, and I think I should say: it is a fraud. It is a fraud that, as Vice-President Hargitai has just mentioned, he is talking about the fact that, in terms of the measures taken for the future, and even of other laws, decisions taken under regulation governance will be legitimised and the long-term effects of this will be reflected. In essence, this process supports what you have done so far, which, in the way you have already mentioned, confirms in today's country report that you are in fact in favour of it, and this bill also points in the direction that income inequalities will continue to increase. This facilitates this, and we could still say that access to public services is also characterised by inequality. And I'm just talking about the fact that, by the way, the unemployment rate in Hungary is massive. In essence, it is inaccessible to people, unable to reach it, unable to ensure and organise that they have the minimum income necessary to ensure the daily living conditions of people. [[9.50]] Looks like I'm starting from a little further away. In this sense, what is good for workers and employers and would prefer to put a strong country in the spotlight rather than your very strong state, may be in itself as you think it is a small step, but the reality I have just referred to is that this is pointing in this direction, regardless of your intentions, in fact. I can safely say that the Democratic Coalition's idea of crisis management, despite all your claims, is far from what has been said recently, but also from these steps. I think it's important to say, above all, that you still owe tens and hundreds of thousands of people, as well as hundreds of thousands of businesses, by ensuring their survival. That's why I've told you here that it's a fraud that you're talking about what's going to happen much later, instead of helping them survive today. We continue to say that the most urgent task is to save jobs, and the wage support that they could do with this force. Instead, they bring in the natural thing that if you consider valuable, then let us all consider that you have concluded an agreement with employers' organisations, workers' organisations, trade unions, and on this basis the reduction in the social contribution tax has been introduced. I hope your historical package doesn't include the fact that this is part of it, and then there it is. But as you say, my fellow Members, yes, you believe that it is included, rather than thinking that there is an agreement that has been concluded for years, it is being observed and it is natural for us to believe that this is the case. Let's not think of it as such a big fucking credit. I therefore think that if you had taken one more step because you had promised to reduce this tax contribution in four steps, and we are not talking about 15.5, but about the next, I would understand that you, as budget managers, are actually doing something to make it better for employers and workers in this respect. Mr Secretary of State has said very commendably what they have done before, but I still think that this should be seen as a natural thing that is important in this regard, but could have taken the next step. The extent of this is left to you, too, because I understand the doubt after consulting employers and employees, it would certainly be possible to agree on the next step, because the agreement also reflects that they consider this direction to be good. If I am already part of the baranya line, Mr Cook has referred to this, I would like to add to the idea of who and what benefits are actually given in the second large package or second part of the law that applies to banks. Okay, let's not hurt him, then. I'm not gonna hurt this part. You have decided that in budgetary management you will be satisfied with a profit of HUF 600 billion per year, that the special tax on banks is the rate that has been set here, so that you can write this down for the next five years. Okay, but on the basis of this precedent, those businesses, those individuals who have the same extraordinary expenses, what five years will they get the same opportunity? Prove they're not trying to help these big companies. I'm not hurting them, I'm a little more restrained right now, and I don't want to bank at all, but you've already come forward with this proposal that you clearly want to help this circle. At the same time, let us add that this was a choice of value, a decision on your part, that the one on the bank of the trenches will remain there, who will revive his reserves during this period, which he has set aside for funerals, child births, or to go to school, because the measures he has made in the student's school-free world cost hundreds of thousands of forints every six months: 180,000 students, the majority of students are forced to work in addition to education in order to go to university, they have lost their jobs, they do not tell them anything, because their actions in student loans are, to be honest, sweet, and they serve their indebtedness, so they give this opportunity not only to the banks, but there is, for example, an easily available, visible group where they give the discount and the five-year description to others as well, and they provide it accordingly, and they manage it accordingly. I understand that this has costs and expenses, but you must understand that families that have been able to save some savings in recent years are now reviving this, so they must be helped in some way in this general compensation. I included the fact that the person who loses his job must be paid the wage he loses. This includes businesses. You should also see this in the choice of value, in the same decision, that when you scratch the crisis, squeeze the local governments, take the funds away from them, the result is that the municipalities may have redundancies this year, because they do not have the resources to do so, they do not have the opportunity to take credit, because you limited it. The result will be that the workers there will also be dismissed. That's what's gonna happen. This, of course, will be less spectacular. But if the bathrooms don't open, there won't be workers in the small town baths. Let's look specifically at what happened to the 60 employees in Szigetvár. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are creating the situation where large companies, or rather, I say, want to help the big ones. Of course, I understand, in the interest of financial security, the strengthening of banks in this way, although let us add that banks are in a much better position than the previous crisis, in this sense the situation is quite different from what was in the previous crisis. So they help the big ones, but in addition, instead of giving businesses, families, a meaningful opportunity at the expense of the budget, they even take restrictive measures to put the municipalities in an impossible position, and here it is safe to say it for purely political reasons. I think it's a despicable thing they shouldn't have done. Or if you didn't notice, you'd better notice and speak up. [[10.00]] Because, in our opinion, local government is a very important asset, and where people have direct contacts, where they deal directly with matters, in the settlement where he would otherwise like to use labour services, you are restricting them. In fact, they are unable to arrange not to have to wait months in line for him to otherwise be accepted into the system, and then where is it that the payment can be made in any way. Finally, I think that an overview of these matters would be a very good place not only for the friendly Economic Commission, but also for the Committee on Budgets, and if there are emblematic moments such as the submission of the convergence programme, the publication of the country report, these are good moments for us to be able to look at not only one specific thing in relation to the legislative proposals, but also much more generally. While, once again, I stress, there is a huge difference between your austerity economic measures and the crisis management programme proposed by the Democratic Coalition, but I still have an opinion on what you are doing, and I would like to say that if Minister Mihály Varga were willing to accept our invitation, he would take this opportunity next week, Tuesday, and he would at least tell us his position in that sense, if there is any difference. At the next meeting, György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, will be invited, and he will also be able to express his position, whether otherwise. I trust that the arguments put forward here lead to the fact that, in particular, the measures taken in favour of Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, during the transitional period that follows from this crisis and falls on us, and we are all affected in some way... we will be able to help them and make a substantial budget commitment. It's not the present moment, and the bill that's ahead of us is more about the future. And at the moment, it helps little or virtually no survival. So I highly recommend that these be taken into account and that we continue the debate and, in the light of this, decide on the end. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-12	Thank you very much. Congressman Antal Csárdi, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have before us a bill amending certain tax laws to mitigate the economic impact of the coronal virus epidemic. I think that I should also point out at the very beginning that this proposal, which lies before us, gives us a sharp, contrasting picture of the social picture and the economic picture of Fidesz-KDNP. To highlight some of the elements, I would like to present this right now. Still, decency requires that I start with the positives. I am talking about the reduction of the social contribution tax, which is, in itself, a path to be supported, if and if this is already missing from the law, workers' contributions will also be reduced. 'Cause what are we talking about? We see that, as a result of these cuts, the situation will not be easier for workers, but for employers, which in itself is acceptable in times of crisis, but not only for companies and businesses. It would be very important that, in addition, the employee, the working person, should not be supported instead and noticed. This is also the way we go when we start talking about corporate tax advantages, because we see that, in the case of public cargo, you are giving benefits from the corporate tax liability, while we see and know that this is at tax haven level today. They act as if they only exist in companies, as if companies alone will not make redundancies due to these discounts. And then every day, there's a press report that 80 people, 400 people, have been laid off, and people you don't notice when you're drafting the economic rescue package are practically in a desperate situation. I think that we all need to know that in Hungary there is no need to put people in a desperate position; in Hungary, the people who live here are diligent, committed, and will not only go to work if you push them to the limit of not being and being. I think that, by definition, the economic package, which has been drafted in this bill, could be partly the right direction, but since there is no balance in this proposal, there is a completely false picture in everyone about the situation in Hungary today. And today, not only businesses are in a difficult situation in Hungary, but also employees employed by businesses. We're not helping out, and these people aren't helping out when they're good in four or five months, because today, because they've been earning zero forints for a month and a half. You did not think for a second about how to help the worker forced into unpaid leave, who, by the way, believed Viktor Orbán's statement to negotiate with his employer and then agreed on an unpaid leave, so now he is not entitled to any support, no money, no income. Congratulations. But I think that, and I would like to talk more about this, is the most outrageous, unacceptable part of the bill's special tax on the epidemiological situation of credit institutions. Special taxes? Special taxes, for fuck's sake! It's not a separate tax, it's a loan, it's a loan that you pay back to the banks in five years. This is about as if I should be taxed by the government paying it back to me in five years or by paying it back to any employee. But we know for a fact that that's not what the tax is supposed to do. The duty of the tax is for the government to finance public services, public tasks and public purposes. But of course, you do not dare to make such decisions when it comes to banks, because many times today, the pact with the EBRD is binding your hands. You do not represent the Hungarian citizens, our partners, the employees, you represent the banks against the employees. And that's something really hideous! I just can't find words! I didn't mean to sound nasty. What's happening is that it's in the best interest of the banks. Thanks to the EBRD pact, hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credit victims have not been rescued or helped, and now it seems that as a result of this pact, banks do not have to play their part in sharing the burden of common defence. Yeah, I know, you're gonna tell me your 55 billion forints sentence, but in five years, the banking system is gonna get it back from the 700 billion dollars' profits, laughing at the 700 billion dollars a year's profits from the government. [[10.10]] Moreover, the banking system, as has been said, is otherwise a winner of the crisis because the banking system is your position, your philosophy is that it should always be a winner, and it will be a winner by building your economic rescue package on lending. It builds on lending: companies, banks, individuals take loans, so that they can save themselves in this classic situation when you take your own hand and pull yourself out of the surging sea, and who will win again? The banking system! How about we just play with the idea for a moment, if the government stopped for a moment, closed its eyes for a moment, and when it opens it, would you say that I am ultimately in charge of representing our fellow countrymen here as the Government of Hungary? Not with his banking system! By representing Hungarian citizens living here! That's what we want to see again. 'Cause what's going on here is really hideous. With all due respect, by trying to move the defense in this direction, you're going to hit every family in trouble so badly that it's totally unacceptable and shameful. And then I didn't talk about using sports benefits from the temporary bank tax, because besides the fact that the banks will get it back in the next five years, they can write this down, if they're willing to support the football team in Felcsút, the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club or any football club. Because that's what this is about. That's what it's about, let's just say, our non-taxed top athletes, and I'm thinking of football players in particular, get a little support, a little help from infrastructure and other aspects. But, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, this country is not run by football players. This country wasn't made great by football players. So I would like to draw your attention respectfully to the fact that you should not represent the banks, not the football players, but the people who live here. And as long as you wish to serve our football players and the banking system exclusively and exclusively, there will probably be no agreement between the government and the opposition on legislative proposals to support this type of economic rescue package. Overall, I would like to say that this package of laws does not provide an acceptable level of assistance to workers, does not offer acceptable benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises, as development reserves are probably not going to be possible for micro-enterprises, even so. But the winners of this bill are the banks, and the winners of this bill are our sportsmen, the football players, who play the good sport of the Prime Minister. I have to admit, I'm the one who's ashamed of you. I am ashamed that I am a member of a parliament that considers small-scale banking to be more important than the representation of the nation. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-14	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Today we are discussing, among other things, a bill which, in its title at least, is about reducing the effects of the coronal virus epidemic. To judge the extent to which this bill corresponds, let us first face the actual effects of this epidemic. After a long plea, after a written response to opposition questions, the HCSO's figures finally came to light on how unemployment developed this year. Well, an important office of the Orbán State Machine was forced to admit that the number of jobseekers was brutally brutal! increased. Although experts believe that in a short period of time or even recently, these days the number of unemployed is over 300,000, let us start from what KSH acknowledges, and the numbers of KSH say that there are more than 280 thousand unemployed in the country now. It's a brutally large number, brutally large increase compared to what was before the outbreak. So this is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is that according to the same agency's own declaration, nearly half of the more than 280 thousand job seekers are not given any financial support. It is not the analysis of the opposition, not of different intellectual circles, but of the official bodies of the state. So that's the problem right now. Let's see what we can expect in the near and far future. I am much more pessimistic than the government in this area, but let us be allowed for a short time, and let us also start from the government's intentions and government's numbers, and another very important document has seen the light of day these days, namely the convergence programme in which the government will inform Brussels for a few years in advance and, of course, the Hungarian public about the trends, predicting how the main indicators of the economy will develop in the coming years. Well, according to the government's own declaration, this convergence programme says that unemployment will be nearly 6 percent in 2020 as a brutal increase compared to previous years, but even in 2021 this unemployment rate will be well above 4 percent. I humbly note that the government's own document contradicts the Prime Minister's words, who said that everyone will have a job within three months. The convergence programme, the government's official document, which you are submitting to Brussels, does not contain this. It follows that the government is either lying to Brussels or to the Hungarian public. I myself, as an opposition representative, do not rule out both. So to sum up, according to the official numbers of government agencies, unemployment is brutal, with more than 280 thousand people. According to the government's own declaration of intent, unemployment figures will be very bad in 2020 as a whole, but still in 2021, next year. Furthermore, nearly half of the current job seekers do not receive any social or other support from the government. What's the consequence? The fact that we should not, in the first place, be discussing how we can alleviate the problem with changes in different taxes, with earlier promised reductions, but rather what we need to do in order to solve this brutal problem in some way. The government's attitude is and should now allow an analogy, as if in the midst of a forest fire threatening half a country, say, in the midst of an Australian type of forest fire, the government would choose to let homes perish in the fire, promising to rebuild these homes sometime in the future. Yeah, I'm sorry, there's one exception here, because we save the branches while we're doing it, but we let people's homes be eaten by fire, and then in Parliament, we submit a bill of how many more fire extinguishers are to be distributed to families, more than 50 to 100 kilometers away from the fire. [[10.20]] These sets of measures are small compared to brutal reality. One thing is clear, of course, that, even in this crisis, banks are nice to the government, but workers are not nice. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the dialogue faction, we should not be discussing how many fire extinguishers are needed far from the fire, but what we need and we should now leave the analogy to argue about how people who lose their jobs are getting some support, and we should debate how to prevent people from losing their jobs. Compared to this, the bill submitted today by the government, which aims to mitigate the effects of the epidemic, operates with minor effects in this area, with minor effects! We will repeat it many times because you refuse to take our proposals into account. First of all, unemployment benefits must be granted to all of them. To the extent that families in trouble where the head of the family or both parents pay, their jobs are lost, they should not be left without income. You say you don't want to build an aid-based society. But I beg you, when people need your help, stop burying their heads in the sand. Once again, those who are already in trouble and have lost their jobs, for those who have lost their jobs, the duration of the job search should be increased from the present 3 to the nine months, which, by the way, was not very long ago, in the period before your administration. At least this minimum should be achieved, and that everyone of the job seekers should have some kind of benefits, unlike the current situation, when nearly half of them have no such benefits at your expense. Second. It is very important to focus resources on saving existing jobs as much as possible. The package of measures by the government in this area is also very modest. Although it is not part of this bill that is a pity, we would like to argue about it, to the extent that the government, the state, is taking over the salaries of workers in firms in difficulty, that is simply not enough compared to the problems these companies and these workers are in. Dear House, We therefore believe that we do not need absolving and mending; we should not argue on small items compared to the whole of the problem; we should give help where the problem is greatest; we should replace the incomes of people who have lost their jobs; and we should protect jobs that have been put at risk by the epidemic. This bill either does not contain anything or attempts to remedy the problem to an insufficient degree. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-16	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speeches by the lead speaker, Honourable Parliament. The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I will give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, So, here is this package of proposals called how we are trying to alleviate the economic crisis caused by the epidemic. About the same thing could be taken out of the statement of the government and the pro-government representatives, and it was said that they were following the same tax policy and doing the same thing that they have done so far, in this very honest way. The problem is that this is a very big problem, that in this amazing big crisis, which we are really just at the beginning of, and there is really no way to assess what is going to happen yet, you are pursuing the same bad and otherwise incredibly damaging economic mechanisms that you have been doing so far. Over the last ten years, you have claimed that there is an amazing economic recovery here, the economy is raging, the KSH is constantly showing how much wages are increasing. The problem is that, in reality, this means that an average Hungarian citizen has a declared job, and two others also work on the weekends, but not for Mercedes to buy luxury cars, but to be able to feed his family at the end of the month. This is the fantastic Canaanite you are saying, so you think that this should be a good thing, but the epidemic is making this thing even more impossible, and you have not even been willing, as other fellow Members have already said here, to help the people, the families, who are otherwise being deducted from their salaries because of all their debts. It's just that I've met an amazing number of people, I know of a family whose one member lost his job, and the other one's paid, say, 30 percent, and they have two children. There are many of these families in Hungary. These people will not be helped by you, but, for example, in this bill, they will withdraw 55 billion forints from the banks by giving it back to them twice. Frankly, Antal Csárdi said that he was ashamed of himself, that he was in this Parliament, that I think that he should not be ashamed of himself, but that you should bring this matter to Parliament at all. 'Cause of course, what can the opposition representative say? Let's vote, of course, on the banks' taxes. What can you say in public? But in the meantime, it says in the law that you will give this back to them twice, to the banks who work with a profit of HUF 700 billion per year in Hungary; and in order not to miss out on the good, of course, even football players will get it, as has been said here. It's really incredibly cynical. Honestly, I don't know what you're thinking. It seems that they are not prepared for this crisis, they are indeed doing the same thing they have done so far, and they are not adopting any proposals from the opposition. I took part in a meeting of the Economic Committee that Mr Palkovics did not come to, but his deputies talked about how Hungary would achieve fantastic results if space research was carried out. These are perfectly realistic things. Let's face it, the Hungarian workers will be saved by the results of space exploration from saying that at the end of this month, they may have to break into a place if they want to buy their children some buns, because they have no wages! So I think that you should come back to the reality planet here in Hungary and work for the interests of the people who have worked for the last ten years, but also for the last thousand years, so that this country can remain in this form, and it would be time for real measures to be taken. If we are to talk about real measures, we should, for example, talk about, say, how much we bring up the dividend tax, 60% or 80%. If you ask me, it should be at least 98 percent this year, and that's what we should be talking about, not how we give money to multinationals and how we give money to banks. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-07-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have a two-minute speech, but no one came forward to do so, so that further announced and unnotified speeches will follow. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, can speak as a spoker. Here.
u2020-05-07-19	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity on this sleepy Thursday morning. My fellow Members seem a little tired. I am a little sad in the debate that doesn't unfold, because I am also a secretary of state, although I suppose you won't get a bonus, but you appear to be sitting here with a pattern of behavior, so that you can patiently listen to the more scratchy or less scratchy opposition speeches, while you take notes and at the end you will react when we can no longer respond to this. It's not just parliamentarianism, I don't want to use strong words as a mockery, but at least a little eroding, but it completely precludes any of us from getting out of our own bubble of opinion, from our own dimension, and that's exactly my problem with the whole package. Since 2010, Fidesz has built a Hungary where, in the era of tribal wars, everyone in their own little bubble, feeding their own little feedback and feeding their ego, mantrasses what very few people examine at the level of numbers, and very few people look at Hungarian reality. And here, too, we have a package on which the Government of Hungary will communicate how important this economic protection action plan is, how effective and effective it is, and in contrast, in the field of reality, we see quite different things. [[10.30]] I think it is worth keeping our investigation on the basis of numbers for as long as possible, from the point of view of reasoning and government communication, because it is a tangible source that even pro-government colleagues may not argue with. On the basis of public burdens, I stress that this government is talking about its economic defense action plan, rescue package and so on. He started by taking half the support of the parties away. Let's get ahead of it. Let's have some public cargo, okay? Fifty percent was the starting bet, if I remember correctly. Now, the problems begin when we look at the alleged burden on the banking system, because this bill that lies before us is a lie, the lie of a banking government about its burden on banks, and in reality it does not. You can say anything about this on the royal television, on hirado.hu, on the Pesti Guys and in other lie factories, the fact is that this bill does not burden the banks, not a single forint, not a single one, my fellow Members. If you were to burden him, you would dare to stand up and argue about these issues. They don't, they don't dare. The fact is that there are those who are burdened with this proposal, the municipalities are burdened with the fact that they may no longer be able to remain with them earlier, but we had a very one-sided debate on the banking sector special tax years ago. When I was supported by Fidesz-KDNP for the first time, what happened? The banks concerned transferred the sectoral special tax to consumers and customers in a confessed manner. And what did the Government of Hungary do? Did you set up a monitoring system that examined the existence of real market developments behind bank price increases? Has that happened, Mr. Secretary? I don't see him nodding, I don't think so. What did the Government of Hungary do? He sat down with the Banking Association to discuss that, well, guys, it's not a good thing that you guys make the most outstanding profits in the whole region, but you're not involved in public burdens, so is there something you should at least show for the sake of decency? It didn't happen. What did the Government of Hungary do? In 2015, he signed the memorable EBRD pact, where he not only sold foreign exchange loan holders, not only contributed to the literal break-up of Hungarian families, but also undertook not to impose additional burdens on the relevant commercial banks in order to settle or deal with the situation of the foreign exchange loan victims. Perhaps Hungary has not yet had a more serene government before the banking system. It really hurts to say those things. So don't make them think I'm some kind of back-up fan who wants to scold the government. I don't want to scold you. I will start with almost all my speeches by saying what we can agree on and what the common points are that can be drawn from. Just along a bank support package, you get a certain amount of emotion. We participated in dozens of evictions with members of my group and our experts, where we tried to redirect processes into the legal system, helped save many families of civilians, social media professionals, and we see that representatives of the Government of Hungary, respect for the exception, but they typically do not get to know the real problems of the real people. In the package before us, the banks seem to be burdened, and in reality, what they are doing: on the one hand, the banks concerned can write down this citational load from the tax of the following years, in a very amazing way, and on the other hand, the money is constantly being returned through the Hungarian National Bank. The Hungarian National Bank would still be the smaller problem, as perhaps we can all agree that a stable economy needs a stable banking system and a stable credit institution. Here we could have a legitimate debate about the proportions of this. I think that the government is overdoing this, but obviously it has some arguments to say that this is not such an organile and compromising attitude on their part, although it is very interesting for a government claiming to be national, which is implementing a chemically pure neoliberal policy in terms of finance and taxation, but this could be the subject of another debate, perhaps even more so than the next agenda. At the same time, we see that, while the banks are being helped by this government twice in two directions, so that they don't have to pay a stinking penny of this, there is another item, we call it a tax, but you called it a levy, Mr. Secretary, isn't it, the financial transaction fee? [[Izer Norbert nodds.]] The fact is that this is once again a type of tax, obviously, so that you don't have to box so much with Brussels, which is why there has been a levy imposed by this government, but it is not paid by the person from whom the legislator would have expected it to be. The fact is that the financial institutions themselves have self-religiously acknowledged that this has been transferred to customers until the last penny, and there has been a micro-entrepreneur who has come into our host hour, Mr. Secretary of State, and imagine that he has brought a bank extract where the financial transaction fee on the bank's part has been levied for five months, while it is a net consumer nuclear bomb, which could not occur in a nation state giving itself something. It happened here, and we can still show this transaction fee in the statistics. If, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members are Googled, two moves, indeed, they are punching in the fact that the banking costs are for Hungary, and, let us say, put it next to that of the United Kingdom. You will find a statement, immediately between the first three hits, which compares banking costs in European comparison with low incomes. Do you know what you'll find in Hungary? That we are one of the highest in Europe, in terms of certain goods we are in the top 3 in terms of precious goods. And what will you find in the United Kingdom? A giant zero. They will find that, in the case of low incomes, there is essentially no need to face unjustified bank costs in the United Kingdom, where there is a very different economic background and operating order. And we also see that the banking system concerned has made profits of over 600 billion in recent years, so it has made a brutal, outstanding record profit. From this, you seem to be trying to capture a $50 to $60 billion item that you're giving back to these institutions. It's a joke. I don't expect you to run 50 percent the same way you did on the parties, but at least don't go on the news and tell them you're charging the banks, because you're not. You have descended on your knees before the banking system, signed the EBRD pact, this has not been broken down, and have contributed to the eviction of more than ten thousand Hungarian families without accommodation in Hungary. Right now, they're boasting that there's an eviction moratorium. Very good, I support you not to think I'm a counter-suspector, my faction suggested this on the first day of the crisis. It doesn't bother me that you've made it your own, and I would vote for one of these even if any party or even an independent Member were to submit it. What bothers me is that implementations, enforcement bans, inks and various types of direct debits are still burdened with the smallest pensions and the lowest incomes in Hungary, Mr Secretary of State. I see that they will not respond to this, but in the closing, please don't miss it, because the credit-damaged people are following this debate, and we have been warned about this; don't miss this question of what implementations are planning to do, stopping enforcement bans, at least for the time of the emergency, because they are not covered by the moratorium. I talked about this with Minister Szijjártó more than two weeks ago. He was, by the way, fair and open on the matter. That's pretty much the point. They'll look into it. I would expect the results of this investigation to date. Mr. Secretary, there will be one more topic by the end of this, on which I expect your reaction. As an economist, a believer in the market economy, I must tell you that I can fully support the reduction of the socho, as well as the reduction of the entrepreneurship burden, because we can talk about a high level of entrepreneurship in Hungary. But there's one thing you need to be honest about. And it is not the responsibility of the opposition representative, at best at the level of opinion, but if the incomes of the pension fund are reduced, the Orbán government will have to reveal its plans. What we see is that the continuous, slow, slid lifting of the retirement age can lead to a situation where an average Hungarian male, according to the HCSO, cannot count on years of retirement in health at the end, as it is the case that the number of expected healthy years of life is slowly lower than when the Hungarian male can retire. And the ladies face similar problems, perhaps a year or two later, according to statistics, although there are such and such situations of life. It can be seen, therefore, that the pension system's expenditure is being pushed by the return of the 13th month pension in itself over several years, with a pension supplement of one and a half weeks, which is not a problem in itself, because they should touch the pension system much more bravely, at least make it an inflation follower of what they say it is. But they don't talk about what they're planning to do with the retirement age, because it's not acceptable for me to see the slow, sly, slippery lifting that the socialists started, but you didn't do anything about it, you didn't approve this system, and you see that when you look around the surrounding countries, you have raised the retirement age to 67 years in Germany and Croatia. According to German analysts, this will not be enough, they are moving forward, they have an expert outlook of 69 years, and before EU decision-makers, there are already studies that would increase the retirement age of 70 to 72 years. [[10.40]] So then they would also start receiving pensions for Hungarian men, if necessary. That's not acceptable to either of us, is it? We don't want a world where the sustainability of the pension system should be brought up with the quotation mark, so that they can make sure that men die sooner than they can get a pension, do we? None of us want to live in this world, do we? I certainly don't. So, if this government is responsible, you need to talk about how you're gonna make up for the provision of the pension system, how you're gonna make up for it. By the way, I would have ideas, Mr Secretary of State, so that they do not go without expert advice, a differentiated pension increase would be an excellent and very progressive proposal. There are pensions in Hungary, otherwise unwarranted, which are almost a luxury category. I don't want to make urban legends about millions of pensions here, because there are plenty of factual stories, but we can see that now I wish there was a 3-percent pension increase, because often it doesn't mean a dwarf amount in the case of a small pension receiving a hundred grand pension, but anyone with a pension of 800,000 can get even more and even more at a high level. So we are saying that, above certain pension levels, pension increases should not be forced, but in terms of small pensions, a much more robust increase should be made every year, with a higher percentage, so that this system can be made fairer and that poverty and deprivation among pensioners should be prevented at such a high level. Otherwise, our proposal for banning executives aims at the same thing, and it is not possible to ban small pensions! Secretary of State, up to the level of income that requires minimum cost of living, Hungarian people's incomes should not be prohibited by executives. Not in an emergency. So, then and from there, the government's crisis emergency package will be credible if it resolves these issues, so it responds to real people's real problems. It amazes me that you do not talk about this in Parliament. It's about their own voters. Small pensioners, victims of executives, evicted people, foreign exchangeers, although in shrinking proportions, there are a lot of Fidesz voters or former Fidesz voters. So let go of this pure neoliberal economic policy, where only one lucky minority is constantly trying to benefit, only they can benefit from the full amount of benefits, because these economic benefits and positive effects will not come down to all social groups. My request is not to leave people on the side of the road, because it has happened in an amazing way in this third government cycle. And in the middle of an emergency, I can see that the visual bakery is working, so the products are out there, hirado.hu tells me that on the royal television, many people believe it; I see that you do not want to address new people, you want to keep your own camp on fire. Prime Minister's constant war talks and constant enemy-hunting rhetoric are about the same thing and aims at the same thing, but now there is a situation where these trenches should be buried and buried. If you put down a proposal aimed at this, I will certainly support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-07-20	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Mihály Witzmann, asked for the floor. Here.
u2020-05-07-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I could say that I was inspired by his speech, and that is why I joined in. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was worth it to come in.]] The truth is, it's not true, because there's a house rule that says that the lead speaker's circle has to go down, and the pre-ordered comments like yours can only come after those who... otherwise I've pressed a button a long time ago, but I'm glad we have a way and opportunity to do that. I am also pleased that the Member is monitoring the Fidesz voting base and the political support of Fidesz-KDNP. I don't think we should start a competition with Jobbik in this way, because if you look at polling data or even the number of votes cast to Jobbik and Fidesz in the elections, you may not be in the same category as the population of the two camps. My fellow Member, János Harghitai, said that he heard two speakers from Somogy, and yet we highlighted the bill from various aspects. Indeed, the reason for this is that we see things fundamentally differently, but it was true, and I think that the baranya speakers are both pro-government and opposition. We have heard here in opposition speeches that it was already a tax reduction decided in advance, and a tax reduction decided in 2016 was a reduction in the social contribution tax. That is true, he said, and I also referred to it in my speech as a keynote speaker, but this is still a tax reduction. We cannot take away the merit of the measure by reducing the burden and reducing the tax at another stage. By the way, the government's understanding in the crisis situation caused by the current coronal virus epidemic of the need to advance such a scheduled tax reduction, and instead of autumn, this is happening from the beginning of July instead of the October date, I think this shows adaptability in any way. With regard to opposition criticisms, the fact that the level of tax reduction is limited by my fellow opposition Members, a lot of people and various aspects have highlighted which one should be further reduced, what should be further reduced, and how could it be further increased in order to make the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian families, the Hungarian households, the municipalities, and many segments correctly highlighted here by my opposition colleagues, but they forget that the government always has a responsibility. On the opposition side, it's easy to say numbers, one more number than any number. We could do that, but these numbers have to fit into the budget, right? So I think that it really is one of these, and I have concluded my speech as a general speaker, and indeed the bill drawn up in order to reduce the burden on the population, which is about tax cuts, should enjoy full cooperation, full unity and support beyond party policy, and should not go into such a bidding war here in the context of the general debate. The more I say this, because those fellow left-wing Members here refer to the fact that the government is doing little, does not do enough, and does not reduce taxes to a large enough extent, for whom, unfortunately, we still remember it, it was not so long ago, as my fellow Member Burány said, that we remember the era of continuous cuts and tax increases, harsh tax increases. Many of us remember that, by the way. So I think that we should relativity the rate of tax reductions here from a point of view who had the opportunity to do so during eight years of governance, to do so, rather, to say the least, it has a strange effect. I think it should have been when the opportunity, the mandate, was given to prove that their intention to reduce taxes is sincere and not when they are sitting on the opposition side of the horseshoe. By the way, this government, whether in terms of tax or corporate tax, or in the case of almost a dozen VAT activities, or in the case of family tax incentives, in the case of family taxation, is now the social contribution tax, ekho, kiva, kata, and we could also list the number of taxes that it has taken decisive and important, necessary steps to reduce the tax. And we are indeed different to go back to my opening thought, we are different from each other, because we think that when there is a crisis, we need to help; when there is a crisis, we need to reduce taxes and put as many segments of society as possible, whether it is entrepreneurs, whether it is the civilian population or families. In contrast, in the governments before 2010, we found that when there was a crisis, because there was a crisis, it was a different type of crisis, but this current health crisis also has virtually economic consequences, and they responded with austerity. Then, when my fellow Member László Szakács is not in the Chamber now, but I trust that he is following the mediation about the municipalities, and he spoke about municipal withdrawals as MSZP representatives, I would add in parentheses twelve years of municipal experience behind me that I remember that the continuous increase in tasks and the reverse proportional financing against it, the period of withdrawal, could be observed precisely during the governance of the socialists. The total municipal debt, which was about 1350 billion, was precisely taken off the shoulders of the current civil government and changed the otherwise unfair normative financing to one task financing. [[10.50]] There are also weaknesses in the funding of tasks, and we recognise that, but in my opinion, it has created a much fairer situation in the management of municipalities than normative funding. For László Varju, the municipalities are being sabotaged. My answer is also about this, and I think that this is an emergency, and I think it is not the government's fault, because an emergency caused by a virus epidemic had to be put into effect not only in Hungary, but throughout the world. On the other hand, common burdens must, of course, be tried to meet all sectors. There was also an opposition thought that debt, the debt of businesses. I can only say once again that, in view of the fact that the retail sector, the business sector, municipalities and families have been indebted by 2010 [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was ten years ago. You're right. It's been ten years.]] It doesn't seem fair to say such a thing on the left side. And then there was one of these that I literally wrote to myself, "The loan must always be repaid." We know very well, my fellow opposition Members, that the loan must always be repaid. The only problem with the socialists is that they are always indebted, always spending other people's money. I can't remember exactly Margaret Thatcher's idea right now, but the real problem with them is they're always running out of other people's money. [[Dr. János Harghitai's intervention:]] That's right, thank you very much for the supplement. And this loan, which can also be called a big loan in the form of an IMF, EU loan, certainly Hungarian people had to work with bitter sweat in the years after 2010 and do so that this government can pay you back before the deadline with interest. And to make the economic recovery package relativisive and pejorative comments on it; yes, this is a historical package. In Hungary's history, there has not been an economic recovery package, accounting for the total value of the measures of 10 000 billion. This is no reason, of course, for not being able to make better criticisms yet, and I think that is what the opposition is doing. And I thank my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát, for doing so, because I think that there have been some constructivity in his thoughts, and these, I think, are worth discussing from time to time in these debates. But I believe that even through opposition glasses, the HUF 10 000 billion in the period 2020-2022 is a clearly visible amount which is in no way suitable for making it the subject of some kind of cynicism. As a reminder, the European Union grants HUF 9000 billion to Hungary in seven years. Finally, I did not prescribe that one of my left-wing fellow Members told them to switch sides with the families. Well, after that, I just put a smiley face on my note. So we are warned about family policy from the left with a variety of warnings, and we are advised to switch to the side of families, when this government, if someone has done something for the Hungarian families, does not start to list it now, because I do not want to be too long, starting from the family tax allowance through family taxation, through the extragyed, and I might add, there were so many and so many family support measures. Fortunately, there is tangible evidence of these, not of the KSH, because it is always scolded by my opposition fellow Members, but also by the statistics issued by Eurostat, which show that marriages are indeed, indeed, the number of children's commitments is showing an increasing trend in Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't advertise this! The number of live births is constantly decreasing. The president's ringing the bell.]] I didn't want to advertise anything, but the fertility index has risen from 1,23 to 1.6, but regardless, as long as I have the word, my dear fellow Member, I have prescribed unemployment for myself. I believe that was mentioned by my fellow Member, Mr Burány. Under their governance, it was over 12 percent when government was handed over in 2010, the unemployment rate, and at the time of this government, it fell to 3.4 percent. I think it's facts, they're something to argue with, but it's not worth it. Nevertheless, I agree with my fellow Member Burány that unemployment must indeed be taken into account, especially in this situation, because I believe that this is indeed an economic crisis caused by the epidemic, which we can safely define as a global crisis, that is what economists do, and that it will bring the issue of unemployment and its problem back to the surface, and that is something to be taken into account. To that end, something must be done. I can give you the Somogy County data. Over the past month and a half, the number of job seekers in Somogy County has increased by about 3,000, I think it's a little over 3,000. This is rude, if we are talking about 300,000 counties, an increase of 1 percent; which, by the way, obviously means a lot, we can say that it means little, but indeed expansion. Economic protection measures must be taken and a recovery package put in place so that these negative economic impacts, which have otherwise been caused by the epidemic, can be eliminated by the government. I confess to you honestly, as a final sentence: I expected that the debate would be relatively smooth here and that a bill aimed at such a tax reduction could pass through with uniform support. Maybe I was naive. I spend my second term here in Parliament as a Member of Parliament. Unfortunately, I do not remember a debate when the opposition could have said something, yes, that is good, so we accept it. It has been said that there are good points in it, but I think that when we talk about tax reductions, there can be different approaches, different glasses, political, ideologically independent of each of us, but the goodness of tax reductions cannot be called into question. Once again, I ask you with great respect to show unity in this, and after the debate has taken place, when the time comes for the vote, you will also support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-07-22	Thank you very much. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman János Volner, independent congressman, please.
u2020-05-07-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me draw attention to a crucial difference between the position of right-wing and left-wing politicians and their method of crisis management. My fellow left-wing Members would like to resolve this crisis regularly by increasing various social transfers. Typically, I would like to help individuals with single or multiple payments, which is what they hope to do to overcome the crisis. However, the right-wing solution is the opposite, not only in Hungary, but throughout the world. The right is typically seen as a means of protecting and strengthening economic structures. My fellow left-wing Members, therefore, would like to see crisis management done with left-wing means, but I myself do not consider it a right-wing politician, because this is about the case of fish or nets. In one case, we give fish to the hungry, in the other case we give nets and teach them to fish. I therefore find it far more useful to strengthen an economic structure, not with aids, not with one-off social transfers, but to try to protect the structure, and, as was said at committee meetings, I also visited the Economic Committee's meeting and there I learned about government plans in the interpretation of László György. The government wants to protect the combined knowledge with these measures, with the facilitations granted to the economy. What is this organized knowledge? Here again, the right-wing and left-wing economic philosophy differs. Left-wing politicians always talk about what has happened to individual workers, how many people are represented by trade unions, and the right-hand side may even focus on President Trump's policy on the knowledge capital accumulated in companies, which is much more than the individual knowledge of a thousand people; the protection of organized knowledge is the preservation of the structures of the economy. I would like to draw attention to a few things that have not yet been in the crossfire of the debates, and there has been no dialogue about them: this is the importance of fiscal discipline, my fellow Members. Although the European Union has made it clear that it will open the way for budgetary relaxation, it can go away with the tight government deficit that has been held so far, meeting the Maastricht criteria of less than 3 per cent, but it is important to see how inappropriate it is to take advantage of this option unless we have a choice. And let me specifically draw the attention of my fellow Members to the importance of making people understand that the state itself is not producing money, the state can manage and give from the budget that it typically collects from others in the form of taxes and contributions. [[11.00]] So if left-wing politicians like this want the state to distribute the taxpayers' money, they also vote in favour of the tax increase, because this money must be collected from others, from the burden-bearing people of the economy, from small companies bearing the burden, from large businesses. On the whole, an economy that starts to increase the tax burden on the recovery phase will have a much lower chance of economic recovery continuing in a sustainable and sufficiently steep course. The other issue, which I would like to draw attention to, was also not mentioned, although it is very important to deal with it. I will ask the Secretary of State to give this observation to the government more intensively. At a time when there is a crisis caused by a coronal virus in Hungary, everyone has to give up some of their revenue, this applies to individuals, to valid companies and to valid municipalities, and we have to take on extra burdens because this virus situation exists. Then I ask you, Mr. Secretary, you have accepted that Gergely Christmas, the mayor of Budapest, has planned the budget of the capital with a deficit of 122 billion forints. I ask you, Secretary of State, that you consider this ethical, economically appropriate, that Gergely Christmas plans the capital budget with a deficit of HUF 122 billion. It is also important to clarify this here, Mr State Secretary, because during the mayorship of Gergely Christmas, the reserves accumulated under István Tarlós were expended. Here, specifically, the budget of the capital was made so that what István Tarlós collected, preparing for future investments, would now be revived by Gergely Christmas according to the draft budget of the capital. And what is extremely sad is that, although the outbreak caused by the coronal virus has struck, we do not see any intention from the Municipality of Budapest to correct this significant deficit of HUF 122 billion at the level of public finances. Mr. Secretary. I do not consider it a good idea from an ethical point of view or from an economic point of view, and it is not permissible for a single municipality to manage with a deficit of 122 billion forints, living up to the legacy of its predecessors. This is also a significant amount at the level of public finances. Here, I note, however, that investments such as the air conditioning of Metro 3 have also been cancelled, which previously was an investment promised by PM representatives. By the way, PM politicians made a fool of themselves when they went down to the subway naked in towels and robes and tried to advertise that it was terribly hot in the subway, and it was intolerable to have no air conditioning. Well, compared to that, my fellow Members, we see now that they are planning their own budget with a deficit of HUF 122 billion, and the subway is still not air-conditioned. I would therefore like to see substantial steps taken in this area, and the government would strictly oblige all the municipalities, not only Budapest, but all the municipalities, to produce at least a zero balance sheet, i.e. a deficit-free balance this year, because this kind of budget withdrawal cannot be allowed there. It is very important to see that, according to the agreement between the government and the Hungarian National Bank, facilitations of 6 percent of GDP were made primarily towards the population, and secondly towards businesses, in such a way that they allowed people to use the repayment moratorium and other facilities, while the Hungarian National Bank provided additional liquidity to the banks. I would consider it very important, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State to do so, to convey to the government that I am proposing not a social transfer to private individuals, but a loan facility with an initial amount of HUF 1 000 billion, which is publicly supported, would be considered justified, which would be made available to families who have lost their jobs and are therefore temporarily suffering from liquidity disruptions. I would like to stress here that this is a measure that directly assists the families concerned through a public interest subsidy, but on the other hand, it is important to see that public finances are not burdened with various social transfers and expenditures, and it is important to see that this solution is a way forward. I would also like to add a new initiative to the current intention of the existing bill. Here I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that the disease situation caused by the corona virus has created a huge and growing health output cap, i.e. an emission gap, with the transition to health care. What are we talking about? There is potential health performance, and there is real performance, which varies radically from one another in different health areas, precisely because of the conversion due to the coronal virus. I would consider it very important for the government to add further incentives to the proposal before us in this area, encouraging the involvement of private healthcare providers with whom the public funds have not yet had a contract, and thus contribute to providing a significant incentive for private health in Hungary. I also think it is important to say this because five years ago, when we created Jobbik's election program, it had a health tourism chapter. I was involved in private health at the time, and I also consulted Hungarian and foreign professionals when this took place, and I see in this a huge way out for Hungary. If we structure these resources well now and implement appropriate tax incentives in this area, not only is it the classically strong dental tourism, but also the recovery of tourism sectors based on other medical interventions is also expected in Hungary. However, this requires the government to act actively and develop incentives within the tax system that can increase the export performance of private healthcare providers. So I would ask the Secretary of State to address this issue in depth. Hungary has important and great comparative advantages in this area, and it would be worth using them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-07-24	Thank you very much. Congressman László Kács, MSZP!
u2020-05-07-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague Mihály Witzmann's speech moved me to speak again. You were right, I was really listening to your speech, but I wasn't in the room. And you were wrong about another thing: you're not naive, you're just careless. I said that we would support this package, because we were the ones who introduced the bank tax earlier, which was due to another crisis. True, we didn't have to give it back, the banks couldn't write it down from next year's bank taxes, we didn't ask the banks for credit, we imposed taxes on them, and we didn't make an agreement with them against the interests of the Hungarian people, which guarantees the Hungarian banking world that their profitability shouldn't be reduced. Your government concluded this agreement with the European Development and Reconstruction Bank in 2015. It also says that the forinting of foreign currency loans does not cost banks a penny. It also says that your government will not create any obstacles to the eviction of families, even in the event of an emergency. It states that, at the most, if the European Union imposes such an obligation on the Hungarian Government, it will only make rules, provisions under which the profitability of the banks may be reduced. In other words, you believed that banks could operate profitably in Hungary. And let's face it, they are profitable in Hungary: the foreign banks here generate annual profits of 600-700 billion forints. And there was another very serious provision in this treaty: in certain social matters, such as the private failure institution, you simply guaranteed the Bank Alliance veto rights in this agreement by your government. [[11.10]] By the way, it's become a private institution. And let's face it, this agreement will be kept by you as a slave. A tax is being levied now, which they can write down later, along with a 4 per cent margin for issuing a thousand billion HUF credit line provided by the central bank, which will give them back 40 billion forints of the 55 that will be lost. So they give it back twice. With regard to the municipalities: if the Member believes that we were wrong between 2002 and 2010, he can do this, but this does not mean that you will be right when you are now acting in a way that takes funds from the municipalities. You have also withdrawn resources from the local authorities and have also taken away tasks. I can't pronounce the quotation mark at the excellent, Congressman, we see that the centralization of education after a three-four-year run, where they created the institution named after poor Klebelsberg Kuno, and they tried to include all the lower and secondary education in Hungary, it didn't work, and you expect success that they just made 19 instead of such a large institution. We see how the centralization of health care worked excellently again I can't pronounce the quotation mark. The Hungarians' greatest fear of their financial security is their health security, at this level they do not trust today's Hungarian health care, because it has been centralized at a level that has reached the limit of its performance. This is the state of crisis that has found us, by the way. I would add that in the current convergence programme, they want to take additional resources from these spheres. Look at us, we will be almost the only people who spend about half of our GDP on education as much as on health in the coming period as we are either the states around us or the states of the European Union. All this, while the Ministry of Finance says and the central bank says that Hungarian competitiveness has basically two limitations, one is health care and the other is the situation of education. Now, this has been achieved with the centralization that they have taken away education institutions from the municipalities, they have taken away health care facilities from the municipalities, and in such a not-so-good way, we have managed to centralise and operate this. You said that you consolidated the municipalities worth 1340 billion forints. I will not agree here in a parliamentary debate that, from a cash-flow point of view, I do not think that this was so bad for that government at that moment. Let's see who was then consolidated there, who were the biggest debtors: the Fidesz cities, Hódmezővásárhely, Kaposvár, Pécs. Pécs had to be consolidated twice because the loans previously received were consolidated once, and the Pécs had the same deficit over the next four years; and the Treasury's agents have been sitting outside ever since. And with that legacy, yes, the elected opposition and, on the spot, the majority leadership must also fight today, left behind by a ten-year-old Fidesz leadership. I wouldn't be proud of that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]]
u2020-05-07-26	We now have two-minute speeches. First, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my fellow Member Mihály Witzmann also gave a second round speech, and I was confident that he might also make a statement here on the economic protection action plan concerning BAHART. [[Mihály Witzmann: Is that part of it? Schedule, Anita?]] The BAHART bomb's been ticking for a year and a half. And two weeks ago, it was armed, and yesterday, it was... [[Mihály Witzmann: Agenda! The president's ringing the bell.]] What happened? The bomb went off two weeks ago, and yesterday it exploded. I asked my fellow Member to stand up for the pro-government Members of Parliament in Balaton. [[Michael Witzmann intervenes.]] Yeah, that's an economic protection plan, too. 65 people have lost their jobs in the reorganisation plan adopted yesterday. You haven't spoken in two weeks on this subject, and I don't think you care what I'm saying, that it's not important that the sailing ports in Balaton be played to Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz. You're all accomplices! You're accomplices to that. I said the clear objectives last week in my immediate question to the Secretary of State, to which the answer was that I would consider it all. Yesterday, you, as 75 percent owner of the state, spat on the Mayors of Balaton, the Balaton Alliance, the Women for Balaton Association and the Balaton Civil Organizations Association by pushing through this reorganisation plan, which is the signing of the death sentence of the Balaton shipping. You have assisted in this, you have done nothing, you have not stood up for the Balaton sailors, it is outrageous and pathetic. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-28	Congressman Székely, independent congressman, in two minutes. [[Mihály Witzmann: Is this the agenda, Anita? Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi: Yes, economic protection.]]
u2020-05-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor. I asked for the floor for János Volner's speech. Because while it is not my place to protect the left-wing parties, and if I speak for myself, I am a member of a left-wing party, but the left-wing parties are certainly not politicalizing to get people help. Personally, I would like Hungarian people to receive a salary from which to earn a living, for normal work, say, eight hours a day. This is not the case at the moment, which is why Hungarian people need to work more at work. Of course, no one in the Hungarian Parliament is fighting to help people, only the left-wing parties, so we are of the opinion that if the Hungarians have not been able to make it through the last ten years, if they are in trouble, then the Hungarian state, which is there to help Hungarian people and solve their problems, should be at least a teeny bit of solidarity and at least a teeny bit of help. But what do we see? This is not what we see, and we see that the Hungarian state supports banks and large companies even in this situation, and, by the way, lets go of people's hands, and I think that this is outrageous. We should not give people loans, but money, we should finally achieve that the minimum wage in Hungary is 200,000 forints, and it would also be fantastic if we finally had a small, humiliating share of the family allowance, which is 12 500 forints per child, which is a shame, we should finally raise it to 37 500 forints. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-07-30	Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is now entitled to the floor as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-31	Mr President, Dear House, As a token of my respect for Mr President, I am far from taking advantage of this time frame, and I do not wish to abuse the framework of the general debate, but here are facts, figures, statements that I believe are important for the record and for the judgment of history. We were talking about a grandiose economic protection package of 19-20 percent of GDP, so let us be clear that about a third of the estimated amount of 10 000 billion is true in the period we are looking at. We are talking about three years of dispersal, and the Government of Hungary also counts preferential loans, in an amazing way. And we also see that the availability of these resources is most important. And here we have an economic philosophy, maybe a debate, and I have to say, there's a difference. Today's debate seemed to be a perfect contrast: the non-right-wing approach, rather a pure neoliberal approach, which seeks to favour a fortunate minority, leaves large masses, and expects the benefits given to the lucky minority to fall to all levels, versus the attitude called the left, which actually thinks in social transfers and often in unconditional basic income. If you ask me that I support your basic income unconditionally, I will say that I do not, because I do not want to take that motivation factor out of the world of work, which, in any case, has proven to have achieved, in many areas of the world, that yes, the number of taxpayers and the number of productive workers in the productive sphere will increase. However, it must also be seen that the epidemiological emergency has created an unprecedented situation where the left-right division so far, the neoliberal versus conservative and other trends so far are essentially being eliminated. [[11.20]] And in a few days, some public politicians can prepare for this new situation, so they can recode their tools and think about other tools, and others are pushing the old mantra, and they are stuck in the footwater of the last 30 years, which, by the way, has not made much progress in this collective, as far as our nation is concerned. What I'm saying is that I'm clearly market economy-friendly, and I would clearly support the sector of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, preferential loans in this area are very good, very positive, but I also see that the loss of income has become so much, and otherwise, the number of people in trouble has become so much, confirmed by the government experts, whether it is a business or an employee, that we really need to consider what we have known about the world in terms of transfers. I would also be open to opening up a zero-percent personal credit line to everyone, perhaps from the President of the Central Bank, but I see that this alone will not be enough to overcome the problem. I also believe that I would like to explore the government's strategy of trying to bring as little benefits into the system as possible, and they are rooting for this country to survive this one or two-month loss, as far as rural cities or large firms are concerned, and they are re-spinning the economy at the cost of an emergency, because they are afraid of the depth of the crisis that is coming before us, and this crisis cannot be reduced by mere market messages. So what we have to say is that a kind of mixage could be healthy, because according to research, 36 percent of our countrymen have no reserves over a month, and if we look only at the examination of the unemployed by KSH, so we are not starting with an estimate of Portfolio, say, 330 thousand unemployed, but we accept the 280 000 number of KSH, we also see that a little more than 151 thousand of the 281 300 people were entitled to cash benefits. So what we're seeing is about half of it is, half of it isn't. Thus, even some of those who are entitled to very short-term unemployment benefits cannot obtain measurable income in the regulatory environment provided by the government. If we are to avoid social and social disasters, then, of course, on the one hand, the MKK sector should be much better favoured. I say that the system of wage replacements should also be extended to the level of micro-enterprises, i.e. those with fewer than five employees. Jobbik has laid down the concept of the Hungarian employment protection fund, which would also replace 80 percent of its previous income during the emergency situation, who still has a job and who does not have a job, and who would involve part of the mkkv sector in this system. But I'm telling you, if you really leave crowds on the side of the road right now, their reintegration will be much more expensive than providing temporary help right now. It's like the CDC situation. Now, if necessary, a ventilator is needed in order to be able to regain the status of the organism later on by healing itself and, if appropriate, to rebuild this society. And that is our common goal. That is why I am getting the Government of Hungary to move in this direction. I would like to put an end to another factual error that has been created here on the economic policy of the government, and I must say that with regard to demographic population indicators, my fellow Member Witzmann, I wish I was wrong, but it is a terrible situation. Although the number of marriages is not a demographic indicator, I welcome the increase in these numbers, even if the underlying motivation is very often the use of the advantages granted by the government, but it is a positive sign. So let's not mince when discounts are available. I totally agree with that. However, I find it quite amazing that Secretary of State Katalin Novák stands up and says a number of things that can be proved untrue, saying that we have improved in terms of all population indicators. I wish you were right, Madam Secretary. I look at the number of live births as one of my hobbies every month when people's movement figures appear, and we see that between 2000 and 2009, the number of live births varied on a completely different scale, so it commuted between about 96 and 97 thousand, and now, this decade, we're about 90 thousand. Unfortunately, we were under this, so the four years of living birth below 90,000 were produced by this government. But let's not hold this government responsible, because unfortunately, the number of women of childbearing age has fallen, another generation has entered this age, where there are fewer women of childbearing age. Overall, it is not surprising that the number of live births has also decreased. Mortality data are broadly consistent with seasonal influenza viruses and other effects, and obviously because of the nature of health care. The number of live births is steadily decreasing, and we have failed to achieve a systemic improvement in the number of deaths. And we also know a third demographic indicator, which is the fertility rate. Here I very, very much welcomed the fact that the previous minuses, which were imported even back to the time of the Bokros package, were somewhat compensated in the first years after 2010. That was very, very positive. This indicator went up to 1,49, then, unfortunately, it stopped and started to drop. Now what Minister of State Katalin Novák did, while the number of children's commitments decreased by another 0.7 percent between 2018 and 2019, from 89 807 to 89 200, she took these 12 months, which came in the next period, she chose one, where fortunately, the number of live births increased compared to the same period of the previous year, it is a month in December, and she pointed out that if we projected this for the whole year, then the data would improve by that and so much. The fact is that if we look at the June-July data, for example, the decline in June is 5.8 percent. So if I look at every month, unfortunately, the number of live births has continued to decrease for the whole year. What I'm trying to say is that by covering up troubles and distorting numbers, it's not possible to undo the disaster we're in. We are talking about a national issue. I will support all constructive government proposals on this issue, but towards a solution, it must not lead to denial of reality. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-07-32	Thank you very much. We are at the end of a legislative debate in broad terms. [[A moment's pause.]] I'm waiting to see what I need to see, and so I don't have to ask you again that someone wants to take the opportunity to speak because everyone had time to think about it. I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-05-07-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have had quite a long debate, and we are quite far from the real content of the package, but I am glad that many questions have been raised. I will try to respond to them in the chronological order they have been raised, but many topics have been raised by several Members, so I will try to sum them up. First of all, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions. I felt that this was perhaps a consensus at the beginning so that many elements of the bill before us were positive and that representatives of all parties could support it. Then a few elements have been selected, which has received quite sharp criticisms, and I would like to respond to them, which are of professional content. I'd like to answer Mrs. Potochka's question first. The question is that the VKF agreement has been brought forward, not a great deal of merit. Also, on the same point, Congressman Varju said that this reduction in the socho is a fraud and that it is not worthy of us to comply with this agreement. I would strongly like to point out that this is a huge merit, so in such a crisis and in a viral situation, compliance with an agreement is a great merit, and it is not just about complying with the agreement, it is about much more than that. When you look at the content of the agreement, it's always subject to a condition to the reduction of the key, which outlines a 6-percent real wage increase. If this was achieved by the economy, so there was a wage dynamic in the economy, a 6-percent real wage increase, then the socho reduction could be achieved. So there is a predictable, responsible and sustainable tax reduction in this agreement. These have so far been followed literally by the government, so every time this option was opened at the first opportunity, this tax reduction was made. Now this condition has not been examined. It was said that from 1 October we counted on this reduction on the basis of our previous plans. So it was our assessment when we saw the economic projections of the year, that perhaps in October we could take this step, but there has been quite a lot of water flowing down the Danube since then. It's not like we planned it at the end of last year. [[11.30]] It is apparent that a large number of wage increases have either disappeared or decreased, or, where appropriate, many have been forced to part-time wage cuts, so it is not certain that this 6-percent real wage increase will be achieved in the near future. So I think it is a huge achievement, even to maintain the agreement. And the fact that this tax reduction happened without testing the conditions, I think it's a huge weapon. Since we showed at the beginning that it leaves 160 billion forints to farmers only this year, next year 330 billion forints, I think it is worth dealing with this proposal in its place, as it is a huge tax reduction. This is what is the most powerful element of this package. But we haven't talked about it in the last three hours. We've been talking about other issues. Mrs. Potochka also raised the fund for catering. It is important to note here that it was indeed a small circle that was affected by tax reductions, those circles that were most sensitive to the coronal virus. It's a 100-150 grand round, so it's a lot more than we've estimated in the first place. However, it has to be seen that in the case of catnip, the vast majority of cattapults, somewhere around 90 percent, are self-employed. The individual entrepreneur can stop his activity at any time, and if he stops his activities because he can't open, he obviously doesn't have to pay the 50,000 HUF bill. So it's not the case that he doesn't have any income, yet this particular tax is ticking. The person who had to close his shop completely could solve this solution, who, however, had a significant decline in turnover, but who was able to operate, but this tax reduction gave him a very significant discount. The other point was, and I am moving on to the suggestion of Mr László Szakács that the bank tax should be returned twice, and quite a few of his fellow Members have raised the same problem that we do support the banks, and that is not a withdrawal that the banks are suffering in this package. What you have to see is that this is actually an advanced salary, as you have put it. So the banks are now paying a tax of HUF 55 billion, which they can write down over the next five years, so this is an advance payment. If any of the players in the Hungarian economy could do so, the government and colleagues who took into account the importance of the disease control would be pleased if there were a sector or economic operator who could advance the payment of some kind of tax, because now there is a need for huge resources, which is likely to be needed in the coming years, if the economy recovers and bounces, then perhaps the central government will be able to afford to manage less tax revenues in that year. Now, however, we need huge resources. So I think that early payment is a very important element. And let us not forget that everyone here talked about the 55 billion forints in this three-hour debate that this special tax we are talking about means in itself. But let's not forget that the banks also took up a HUF 3500 billion loan repayment moratorium, so the repayment of HUF 3500 is now in parentheses, making it optional for the debtor to want to pay it back or not. I think that, in this situation, the banks have taken on their part. The colleagues also told them that the banks have not only this special tax of HUF 55 billion, and not only the special tax for them since 2010, which is about HUF 70 billion in revenue, but also the financial transaction tax of more than HUF 200 billion. So the banking system is pretty much taking its share of the public burden. It is not my duty to defend the banking system, however, nor is it my intention to demonstrate that they may be overtaxed, but based on objective figures, it can be seen that the Hungarian banking system is ranked in a ranking in a mid-point international comparison. So, if you look at the revenue from bank tax in proportion to GDP, then Hungary is roughly in the middle class, and if you look at the balance sheet ratio, then we are a little higher than the average. Thus, the tax burden on the Hungarian banking system is stronger than the EU or OECD average. The fact that their capacity to bear the burden also shows that this is exactly the sector that can still pay off an epidemiological special tax. I think that the result of a responsible, well-thought-out decision is that this is the sector that takes its part in paying taxes. Several Members also stressed that we are giving a discount to the multinationals. It's also a very important element for the banker to see what happened. The bank tax still has a progressive system of measurements, a lower key, and a top key. Technically, we have now raised the top key with this epidemiological special tax, so it is precisely the larger, more capitalized banks that are receiving this special tax. It's hard to say that we're burdening smaller companies. Thus, the larger, more capitalised banks will receive this amount. There has also been an argument that it is possible to support tao discounts and athletes. I would also like to stress that since 2017, more than three years ago, the system has been in place that if a bank has been entitled to tax relief, so that it has already been entitled to tax, it can also benefit from the corporate tax. So we're not talking about a new discount, and we're not talking about an extra tax discount, we're talking about the tax relief already paid. And since the bank tax, technically this new special tax, was created on the basis of the standard bank tax model, it works in the same way as the bank special tax, so this benefit can be applied from this system in the same way. Mr Cook also suggested that the municipalities have withdrawal while the banks get their taxes back. Let me stress that the budget has been completely redeployed this year. There have been quite a lot of debates here in Parliament about the amounts that have been moved. There was a split-off of the support of the parties, and it was said that we drew funds from the municipalities, but the biggest sacrifices were obviously made by the central budget. Hundreds of billions of forints migrated to certain funds, either the epidemiological defense fund or the economic protection fund. So, obviously, the government started saving on itself first, and the decline in tax revenues will obviously reduce the revenues of the central budget first. Compared to this, the car tax deduction for municipalities affects a much lower amount. I would also like to respond to Mr Csárdi's suggestion that there is also a need to support working people. I would like to stress that for years we have been pursuing a policy of reducing the burden on the employer. There was a debate about which side to reduce, employer's or employee's side. I think life has proven that it was a good decision when we helped the employer's side reduce the tax burden, because it will enable the company to raise wages and create additional employment, so it will be able to give the employee a job. The Prime Minister used to say that when there's work, there's everything. We think that the statistics of the past years have proved that we were able to go up to a much stronger employment and up to 4.5 million in employment and that there was a very strong wage dynamic in the Hungarian economy, so much more wage mass flowed to Hungarian families than in previous years. I would also like to respond to Mr Burány's suggestion, and Mr Z. Karpat also spoke about this, who said that unemployment reaches high percentages and that some unemployed people are not receiving benefits. It is very important to clarify that unemployment and the definition of registered job seekers are not the same. The unemployed are not necessarily registered for unemployment benefit by the HCSO. Therefore, this number does not mean that it is unable or unable to obtain a discount or request support. There is a circle that does not wish to participate in this registration, but simply does not want to use this support. I'm asking that this information be handled in its place. The other is what unemployment rates are worth counting. It must be seen that it is very difficult to go below 3-3 per cent unemployment, because technical unemployment when you go from one job to another, there is a month's break between them, so it is almost impossible to go below it as a result of the structural change. Since the Hungarian numbers practically approached this, it is a huge value. As we see that in the OECD countries, Western Europe, the USA, there are 15-16, where 20 percent unemployment figures are reported, I think that if this 3.5 percent unemployment goes only a little, 4-5-6 percent, it is a huge result for Hungary. I think it would be an extraordinary achievement if the level of unemployment climbed so far. It is important to see that Member States provide much higher estimates in OECD countries. Mr Székely indicated that he would introduce 98 percent of the dividend tax and that we would give benefits to the multinationals in this package. I can't read the last one here. If we look at the fact that we are taxing large companies for banks, and at the next item, the larger companies are receiving the retail special tax, then I do not think that there is any element in this that we would be burdening small businesses. [[11.40]] With regard to the 98 percent introduction of dividend tax, let me draw attention to the fact that all countries are taxing capital incomes in a different way than normal earnings. Capital incomes are relatively mobile and are easy to move at international level. It is not a wise decision to impose a very high tax burden on an income already taxed once, for it is likely to flow out of the hands of the country. The lower tax rates proved that we were able to collect more tax revenues than we did in previous years, and I think that this is true of Hungarian tax policy as a whole. How true this is that lower taxes are sometimes worth more, here I would like to respond to the suggestion of Mr Z. Mr. Kárpát, where he was concerned about the incomes of the pension fund. I think that the past years have shown that the tax reduction policy we have been pursuing has been a predictable and responsible tax reduction; therefore, it is never a tax reduction that would not otherwise have been justified and that there would not have been a budgetary margin before it. How did we do that? Obviously from the fact that we can collect tax revenues more effectively and have been able to whiten the Hungarian economy in an extraordinary way. So, contrary to the fact that the left-wing parties wanted to set a tax increase earlier as a source, we say that we are trying to collect low taxes from as many taxpayers as possible. So everyone should pay what's on him, and then the whitening will practically finance the additional tax cuts. Finally, I would like to respond to Mr Volner's summary. He mentioned the principle of "fish or nets" and highlighted fiscal discipline and prudent spending in his summary. I think you have summarized very well what the tax policy of the government has been, by the way, in recent years. This is exactly what we are trying to draw attention to, not to support and not to aid, but to work, and to keep the tax burden on work as low as possible. I think that the package before us is taking a huge step towards these, so I ask for its support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-07-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, Honourable Parliament, that the amendment proposals will be available until 16:00 today. Now, at 11:42 p.m., I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. (Sunning: 11.42 11.51) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Attila Gelencsér and Gergely Arató)
u2020-05-07-35	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the proposal for a law on retail taxation until closure. Government referral T/10315. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Norbert, Minister of State of the Ministry of Finance, author. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The Hungarian tax system is expanding with an old-new tax system, which meets the criterion under the Fundamental Law that taxation must also take into account the burden-bearing capacity of taxable persons. This tax is the retail tax. I mentioned an old-new tax, since between 2010 and 2012 there was already a picture of the public burden under the bill before you, which was the sectoral special tax. One element of this was the retail trade in shops and, similarly to the tax under the bill, it also primarily charged large companies. Although the sectoral special tax was contested by several taxable persons and by the European Commission itself, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated that, in itself, given the fact that a tax imposes a higher obligation on large companies, it is not apparent that the regulation would be discriminatory, even if these taxable persons happen to have a foreign ownership background. The tax base of EU law and the Fundamental Law is therefore in line with the decision of the EU Court of Justice, there is no comparable situation between the shopping mall and the arctic spicy one, and therefore this difference in taxation can be applied in the light of the burden-bearing capacity. In essence, this is what retail tax is all about, so there are many businesses that can talk about some 35 thousand businesses, but only around 2 thousand of them will be taxpayers. It is also a prelude to the bill that the government has already made in force in a regulation the same retail tax as the bill's content, from which revenue belongs to the basis for the control of the epidemic. This existing tax is also taken into account in the proposal, so that the entry into force of the law will be the day after the publication and, on the other hand, the proposal also takes into account the need to pay a tax for the period covered by the Government Decree. Dear Parliament, The new retail tax is consistent not only with the Fundamental Law and EU law, but also with the government's tax philosophy, which now has a decade of history. The essence of this is that the government intends to provide people with more free-spendable income by reducing income tax and labour costs, while shifting the focus of the tax system to turnover and consumption taxes in order to maintain fiscal stability. The new tax is therefore a traffic burden, since it is based on the net turnover resulting from the taxable activity. At the same time, it is also of environmental importance, since higher consumption has more negative environmental impacts, especially when it comes to the fact that a shopping mall also increases car traffic significantly. The tax liability itself refers specifically to retail activity, which is proposed to be identified by the retail activity described under the TEAC. At the same time, it does not matter what the classification of the undertaking according to the TEÁOR is, but what activity it carries out. In fact, on the basis of the detailed explanation of the proposal, the retail sale on the sales channel open to the general public is, in particular, not exclusively to private individuals. At the same time, the sale by the manufacturer to the wholesaler and the sale of the wholesaler to the retailer will not be taxable if the sale is not made through a sales system open to the general public. The tax shall be subject to the person or organisation carrying out retail activities. In order to protect the competitive position of Hungarian retail units, due to the principle of competition neutrality, the taxable person is also proposed to include an entity or person not established in Hungary, who is selling a product to a customer in Hungary through a foreign webshop. The tax base, as I mentioned, is revenue from retail activity. Another element of the tax base is the turnover that the retailer obtains from the service provided to its supplier, such as sales promotions in shops, in order to make the product more available, not from the sale of goods, but from the service provided to its supplier. The tax base also includes the various discounts and concessions granted by the supplier. In order to ensure that a progressive system of measures cannot be cheated by the dismemberment of the company, the proposal provides for a comparison of the tax base with the taxable person's related undertakings in the event of a separation, division or transfer of assets after 14 April 2020. However, relief from this rule may also be granted if the taxable person demonstrates that the transaction had economic justification. The tax rate system is progressive in a band, which means that the rate corresponding to that band can only be applied to the part of the tax base in the band. Up to HUF 500 million in revenue, the tax rate is zero per cent for all enterprises. At the same time, businesses with turnover below this threshold, really small retailers, do not have to admit or have to pay taxes. Dear Parliament, Tax under the proposal is subject to an annual tax. This means that tax returns on tax year performance must be submitted after the tax year. At the same time, tax advances should be recognised on the basis of data from the previous period and paid in two equal instalments in the tax year. The proposal contains detailed transitional rules for the tax year on the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. the tax amount of the first tax year and the amount of the tax advance payable. First, it can be calculated that, in the first step, the tax is to be calculated for the entire tax year fund and then the amount actually payable is to be set pro rata time. Honourable Members, The bill will help to meet budget revenue in line with the objective of the economic protection action plan adopted by the government, and I therefore ask you to support and accept it. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-05-07-37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, is the first. Here.
u2020-05-07-38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I hope that the debate on this bill will be much shorter than the previous one; I will base my confidence on this confidence that, if the opposition criticisms set out in the previous one were based on principle, this cannot be the case with this proposal. I could also say that this measure is a perfect example of a national patriot economic policy. It could also be said that this would be a good measure even if it were not to be taken in a crisis situation, but in this case it would be a sin if we did not take such action. As said here in the Secretary of State's report, it is practically not a new tax, but a well-established and proven measure, which, among other things, contributed significantly to the recovery from the economic troubles at that time in the period 2010-2012. I will not tell you a secret that we support this proposal on the part of the Fidesz fraction, and I would just like to point out a few things here why we are doing this. [[12.00]] Perhaps one of the most important things about the tax is that it is not a lawnmower tax, but a tax with surgical precision, the main value of which is that it is primarily charged to multinational companies. It is particularly important to mention that it protects and assists small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. As has been said here, on the basis of the 2018-19 figures, or by reflecting this new tax, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are either not at all or are under minimum burden by this tax. But I would not go into detail the crisis in which the whole world and Hungary are today, and precisely these resources, which are expected from this measure, will help to rebuild the economy. It is important to say that most of this tax is actually charging an extra profit. Practically, if you look at the amounts payable by this new measure to the six largest taxpayers, there is nothing more than the fact that the six companies most affected by this tax in 2018 paid HUF 63 billion as dividends from Hungary. So the planned rate of tax this year, which is not a full year, is around HUF 35-37 billion, for the whole year, this represents a value of around 50 billion for the period 2021. If you look at the tax, only six of the largest taxpayers were involved, who, once again, in 2018, took 63 billion forints out of the country completely clean. So you can see here, and this is also the answer to any criticisms already published in the press that this measure would jeopardise jobs or bring about a price increase. There is nothing more here than that within the framework of this measure, the Hungarian international multi-chains operating in Hungary will not be able to transfer that much money home, but we will turn back a significant part of their profits to the reconstruction of the Hungarian economy. Those who claim that this measure endangers jobs or causes a price increase would only be true if these companies were not willing to give up their extra profit, since their extra profit was much higher than the rate of this tax in 2018, and they would consider not to rebuild the economy otherwise. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Why is this tax fair? If you look at the sectoral nature of the tax, this concerns retail trade. If there is a current economic crisis, a sector of the world crisis that is least or not affected by this crisis, it is the retail trade, or that part of the retail trade, that I am referring to the shops selling daily consumer goods, who are the biggest contributor of this tax. So 80-90 percent of the multinational companies selling retail consumer goods pay this tax, and, as we can see, even on the basis of traffic figures released today, this sector is fortunately, I add, which has not suffered a more serious setback in the most difficult months of the crisis. Why is this proposal good? That is why, and this has also been said in Mr Secretary of State's report, that this has stood the European Union's not too weak test, because it has been attacked here, in practice, the rate of taxation is the same as that of 2010-12, who were concerned about their profits here, and this measure, as it was attacked by the European authorities in Hungary and Poland. The mills of the European Union, if they grind slowly, but have decided, perhaps in March this year the final court decision was reached that the Hungarian and former Polish measures were not anti-European. So from this point of view, I would not only like to say that there is confidence in the European institutions, because, even after a long struggle, we have managed to cheat a sovereigntyist measure into the European Union, so there is hope, but I would point out here that this measure has already stood the test of the European Union in this respect. So we have every chance that this can be firmly incorporated into the Hungarian tax system and can be expected to be dealt with by the crisis. As has been said here, the Fidesz fraction will also fit and support the proposal because consumption-type taxes instead of labour-type taxes, so it fits into the government's economic policy for 2010-20, and I would not list all the arguments in favour of why we can support the introduction of this new measure in this crisis. I hope that the other parliamentary groups will support it in a similar way. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-39	Thank you, Member, and welcome to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-05-07-40	Mr President, Dear House, We are in a lucky position today, because the previous agenda is substantially linked to the current one, so we can now start about the seventh round of a twelve-round boxing match, and we may be able to skip a lot of the arguments already made, since we debated this in the previous agenda. Several of my fellow Members from Fidesz called on me today to ask why there is no complete consensus behind certain proposals that are so positive. I remember this, we supported a little bit of a delay in consumer protection a week or two ago, and it was not a Hungarian idea, but a proposal implemented from Brussels, behind which, I believe, there was a complete consensus, so there are also such proposals. The excellent approach of Kristóf Szatmáry to support a proposal for a patriot national economic policy, I agree that the national economic policy of patriot should be supported. The proposal that lies in front of us, even though I don't think it contains nuclear bombs that we should say that we don't want to deal with it in the first place. The story of the levying of sector tax in this order, which we are talking about, started from the retail tax introduced in 2012, has come to our attention here the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which did not consider this discriminatory vis-à-vis the multinationals. By the way, to be honest, I was surprised at this judgment. At the time, I clearly expected that Brussels and Strasbourg would raise clear concerns on this issue, as it is clear that the multinationals we are talking about paid the most on paper from the point of view of the taxpayer, but we also saw that, let us say, in the case of the food chain monitoring fee, some of the large companies could diversify their portfolio so that certain units could stay out of the obligation to pay taxes and, in other cases, not. But we also see that if we approach things from the point of view of public burdens, then this national patriot economic policy has given us a little bit of a strange color, since we started from the point of 50 percent of the support from the parties. Fine. Let's get to it. It happened. At the previous agenda, we argued that the profits of the banking system of 600-700 billion are now being asked for a measure of 50-60 billion in the form of public burdens, but this is being doubled to those affected, i.e. one and a half times the tax, and along with the mass of resources provided through the MNB, a couple of ten billion forints are still on hand. So public burdens are already being damaged there. Now we are talking about a sector in which I do not want to argue about the special tax, the burden on the public, so I urge that, too, but I am indisputable about what this government has been doing since 2010, and to be fair, I have been confused about what happened before in this country. In the last 30 years, we have seen the pampering of multinational capital at a level that is unprecedented in the region. If you are familiar with the operation of these companies, what decisions are taken to bring an investment here, then what we see is that, let's say, the level of consciously kept wages in Hungary is a fifth-sixth decision factor. [[12.10]] It is more important for them to have a balanced legal system, so that they can know what they can expect in two, three or four years' time, the administrative and bureaucratic background that characterizes the country, so the daily climate and security in which these companies can operate. In this respect, therefore, I have no objection in principle in relation to the taxation of high-income trade chains, and I do not understand why governments continue to allow these sectors to carry profits out of the country untaxed by a thousand billion-dollar scale. With no better sympathy can the former excellent expert, Lázár Pavás, who, during the examination of EU funds, examined the volume of resources flowing into the Carpathian Basin, including the current size of Hungary, or the amount of capital flowing out of it, and found an eight-fold excess outflow during the period under consideration, which gives a rather harsh impression that Hungary's economy could operate in colonial status, presumably even something like that. I say yes. The Hungarian GDP data depend on the quarterly brochures of various German car factories and their good spread, and unfortunately, this amazing, insufferable exposure is reflected in the everyday lives of the multinationals operating here, and therefore the extent to which the Government of Hungary can burden them. So once again, I can support this, but only for public burdens, please do not refer to anyone, because while thousands of billions of people from this sector flow out of this sector without obstacles and without taxes, the micro- and medium-sized enterprises sector will pay taxes fairly, including in the price of products, also pay a lot of VAT, and this will carry Hungary on its back, and these people will also give the most Hungarians jobs. We have to say that there are two typical tricks in multi-company terms, one is the renting of the IT system and the other is the renting of know-how or manufacturing technology. They have no upper limit. Larger multinationals are very well able to pay their incomes in such a way that they have to bear as little tax burden as possible. I do not expect impossible from Hungary or the European Union, because I can see the debates going on with regard to Google and Facebook. By the way, I would like to add that the National Tax and Customs Office is able to verify how these giant companies tax in Hungary, what income they tax, but we can see that much larger states have broken their knife in these attempts so far. I am very keen that in the future these companies may be placed under public burdens. I have two specific questions to ask the Secretary of State. On the one hand, the new special tax is supposed to have an impact on the retail trade in fuel, what expectations do they have here? In fact, now there is a state of grace where we finally meet the petrol prices that are close to affordable. Is the proposal that has an impact on this sector able to reverse this process? The other is a more delicate issue, and here I stress that I am not speaking a faction point, not a conflict, but an opinion of my own. I consider Amazon, Wish and AliExpress to be the market for their devices imported from the Far East with a very strong suspicion. As a strong consumer defender and former member of the Consumer Protection Committee, I see that they often import net trash into Europe and Hungary, and, where appropriate, toys, products and materials containing dangerous ingredients for children. I am very pleased if there is any barrier here, but, in itself, the extension of a special tax to internet commerce or webshops is not certain enough to stress: in itself, if this does not apply to smaller workshops or smaller webshops. I am very pleased that, under certain thresholds, family businesses, some small micro-segment companies, who are also building this country, are not subject to a certain threshold. In today's world, let me give an example to the Secretary of State, when we now had to order weights in a difficult situation, I did find one-handed hand weights in a Polish webshop, because it was not in Hungary all over. And then let's continue to open up, I was very happy to get it at least from here, although I am trying to buy everything and in any case everything from Hungary and Hungarian producer and Hungarian producer. This is often not possible, because in many cases, the cucumber in the store is not Hungarian, in our example the one-handed hand-weighter was not Hungarian, and I could do a lot of my consumer experience here in terms of the level at which we cannot obtain Hungarians, and this is also our collective responsibility. But I'm not sure that an extension of a special tax alone can deal with systemic problems in this sector. So my question is that the Government of Hungary also has a Vane consumer protection package, because it is only in this case that the regulation of this sector can make sense. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-07-41	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-07-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. The parliamentary house rule before the Second World War prohibited readings in Parliament then, so that Members would read monologues in Parliament. It was a very nice time. Thank God, there are rare exceptions in the Hungarian Parliament when there are moments like this now. Since it was said in the expozee that this law is an old-new law, Kristóf Szatmáry argued that the test of the European institutional system was passed by this law, so I do not explain the details of the law either, we all know it, but I go back to the previous debate, because things are connected. I am glad that Congressman Varju has returned, because his sentences move me to go back to that debate, although we are actually going to talk about or talk about the same thing about this law. Didn't I say, Congressman, to you and to others here, that the comedy that has been launched in connection with the Crown Virus Act is a pity and a disgrace to me. But I was referring to only one aspect of this here, and I said that now that we are discussing these two financial laws, it is an eloquent proof that the emergency will not continue until the end of time, which you have accused us of, because we are now adopting laws that will take effect after the emergency. It's typical, that's what I'm suggesting. You reacted by saying, no, we're fucked up because we're legitimizing our government regulations. How to figure that out is a mystery to me. This government decree on retail taxes is still alive and will live until the end of the emergency, and on the day after the emergency, this law, which we are now adopting, will be in force. So it is not that we are legitimizing a government decree now, but that we are creating a law in the context of the post-emergency situation. It was said that this law or the law of the time had passed the European Court of Justice on the retail special tax. However, I must say that this is one of the rare cases where such a debate is encoded in the Treaty of the European Union. Thus, certain players in the economy affected by this law at the time, and obviously the international trade chains that are here in Hungary in the first place, have violated Parliament's decision and have been challenged before the European Court of Justice and, of course, they have done so on the ground that we are really imposing taxes on foreigners. The European Court of Justice has given us the truth, and has said that no, we set taxes in lanes, we exempt small ones, the big ones pay, whether they trade here as foreign investors or domestic traders. So this is a rational and sensible debate, I say once again, which follows from the Treaty of the European Union, and naturally the court will state its final position. This happened. I'm just reminding you, when are we going to introduce this retail special tax? When we have to clean up your ruins. This is the time when the world gets its head on Hungary's unorthodox economic policy after the socialist government. We have created laws and tax rules in a strange, unusual way, and this has been considered to be the case, but this has been effective, because the problem that you have left behind, we have been able to clean it up. Congressman Witzmann brought up in the previous debate the legendary saying to Margaret Thatcher that the socialists would sooner or later run out of other people's money. This happened in the second half of 2008 when you ran out of other people's money. The state before the state went bankrupt, and those others then gave this country money again, 20 billion euros, 25 billion dollars, and the Orbán government has since repaid it, because, of course, it was determined that the burden was left to the next government. [[12.20]] In the previous debate, you have made an agreement with the EBRD a little incomprehensible to me many times and several times. Perhaps Congressman Cook was the first to mention it, and then other Members continued to do so. I know that it is not to be expected from you that when we talk about economic issues, only because you were extremely unsuccessful in 2008, given your economic policy, I am referring here again to the fact that you have bankrupted the country, so that in itself you will be restrained when we are being criticized or criticized. If I thought that would be expected of you, I would be completely naive. That's not their role right now, and that's totally fine. But I would also like to think that when an agreement with the EBRD, which basically concerns the banking sector, is being brought forward, I would urge you to tell your colleagues to prepare the 282/2008 programme for you. Government Decree No. 1. This is the anthem of our submission, honourable Members, which is written in this government decree. At the time when you received 20 billion from the international institutions to avoid bankruptcy, in this government decree, these international institutions told you what they needed to accomplish in order to obtain that 20 billion. I only suggest the most exciting things: freezing public sector wages, taking 13 months' wages in the public sector [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you give it back?]] 13, 13th month's pension, and so on and so on. So you should see this before any economic policy debate, or you should revive this government decree, because I say this is an anthem of Hungary's submission, which we were forced to do at the time. And such laws, as we are discussing now, or brought here again, were also a means to clean up those ruins. The Christian Democratic Group supports what is set out in this bill.
u2020-05-07-43	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-07-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought this was gonna be a little different tone, but I have to respond to that. The Government Decree of 282/2008, which was cited, is in Hungarian, isn't it, my honourable fellow Member? Because you are so proud of the agreement with the EBRD that even the website of the Hungarian government was only posted in English. It's certainly not because they couldn't find anyone who translated it from English to Hungarian. Between you and me, it's not complicated. Probably because it allows even less people to get to know the contents of it. It's an anthem of subjugation. In fact, the EBRD agreement is an annex to a contract in which the Hungarian State purchased 15% of Erste Bank and also gave its hand to sell MKB Bank, the Magyar Kereskedelmi Bank. That is why they had to accept these conditions in order to acquire a stake in a bank that the Hungarians didn't need, and since then it has been sold. It was necessary to accept these conditions in order to guarantee the profitability of the Hungarian banking sector and to write that they would never bring about rules and regulations that would undermine the profitability of the Hungarian banking sector, that they would not create conditions and would not create any obstacles to eviction of Hungarian families, which the government had to sign in order to obtain at that time the Erste Bank, which it did not need, and this was confirmed by the past period, because it has not been owned by the Hungarian state since then. Yet the Hungarian families were put in such a position. They've inherited ruins. In June 2010, I remember that's not what the Prime Minister said. I remember the Prime Minister saying that the Hungarian economy is basically okay; basically they took over the country and the budget with economic conditions that can be maintained. I think your Prime Minister said this, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary. These multi-company companies, which we are talking about, yes, we can see that this is an old-new tax, they have tried to introduce this once, there has been a lengthy dispute. Well, let's face it, calling it a patriot, when it's really all about debauchery, it's kind of hard. This is about the fact that foreign business chains will now learn what it is like to be your strategic partner in a company in Hungary, and there the revenue received is accumulated in one place and the tax is calculated from it. The Hungarian-owned chains are in a franchise system, and in Hungarian, every business is in the name of a different one, and thus the turnover is much lower, which is shown by a company. Now, by the way, these companies will learn what it's like to be in strategic partnership with you, but I'm not worried about these companies or you, and you'll figure it out. The people I'm worried about are the customers. They're gonna transfer it? My fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, said that those who think that this will be passed on by these chains to customers, and those who think that there will be redundancies, believe that these companies will not give up on their extra profit. But how are you going to guarantee that? So far, you have guaranteed extra profit in strategic agreements, how you can even deduct dividend tax; how you can reduce corporate tax from 15 percent to 9 percent; how these companies will receive additional discounts, where all experts broadly agree that multinational companies are taxing around 5 percent in Hungary today. You have made them tax havens from Hungary, how do you intend to guarantee that they will not be validated in prices, and this will not be a disguised VAT increase? Where it is said that this, too, please, is the tax on traffic that we will certainly collect from customers, that is not what the multinational company will say that you know better about the content of these strategic agreements, how do you intend to guarantee that? How do you intend to guarantee that these companies do not say that if I have to pay more taxes, I will have to cut costs elsewhere, and I may have to let people go, as Spar Hungary has already said, that he may not be able to keep this 900 people who have been hired. I understand that this is the beginning of a trial, and I'm sure there will be many more rounds of this either with Spar or Tesco or Aldi, with Lidl, I won't go through with the six big chains. How do you intend to ensure that there are no redundancies, no part-time work that does not correspond to workers? How are workers protected and prices protected? Is the trenches coming again? There was one once when this legislation was first introduced, wasn't there? Then, if I remember correctly, Antal Rogán led this trenchman to go out and see if they wouldn't charge the price. In recent years, we have faced inflation of 4-6 percent per month. More than food, it was there, which increased by 30 percent, with an average increase of 12-14 percent. How are you going to distinguish this from the fact that you are passing on taxes now, or that we are talking about runaway inflation, and how are you going to do that at all? I'm afraid that at some point, we'll face the consequences. With the consequences that, I suppose, will somehow be explained, reaching back to the cases of 12 to 15 years ago, and then so well-sounding speeches can be said, but in fact, this will not be a real help to those who lose their jobs and who will buy much more expensively. We are actually afraid of these, and I do not see the guarantees that are in this. And I would like to point out one more thing: this is called a patriotic economy, after they have turned these companies into tax havens from Hungary, I could call it self-criticism, but it is actually a bit cynicism. [[12.30]] And those companies will decide that it is obviously worth being in strategic partnership with the Hungarian government, but once again, this is your problem with companies, not the problem of legislation. The problem of legislation is to minimise the risks that can be seen, have no price-expensive effect and do not dismiss workers. In the current situation, when inflation ran out in January-February, the situation could not be better because of emergency protection, and a lot of workers lost their jobs, not in this sector, that is true. We see nothing more important than the financial and housing security of families. We don't see the guarantee for these. If there is an adequate guarantee of how you can enforce this, apart from closing your eyebrows or perhaps looking deep into each other's eyes, what guarantee is there if we see these... we had such a proposal, we just have to accept it: a ban on dismissal must be imposed on multinational companies. You're saying these companies are big, producing extra profit, and I'm sure they can handle it. We see the numbers, the 2018s. We will probably see the 2019s in September, so the estimated revenue is also in question at the moment, as we did not have to accept balance sheets in May, but we hope that in 2019 their revenues did not decrease, and then the country will have a large tax revenue, but protect workers and protect prices. At least order the dismissal ban. That's what we've been demanding since the health emergency was introduced. We fear that for a Hungarian company, a Hungarian employee may be worth more than a multinational company. Therefore, a ban on dismissal should be imposed on multinational companies. If they are able to provide adequate guarantees for them outside the Horse Zones and 10-12-year-old cases, then obviously there is openness on our part to the fact that, as in the previous case, if additional warranty elements are included, they will be the subject of consideration which we will make with a positive intention from this side, then, of course, we can continue further negotiations together or even unite. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-45	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-07-46	Thank you very much. I could say that there is a need for personal attack, in addition to the fact that, of course, the faction of the Democratic Coalition wants to take the lead here. And we are in a situation where there is a discreet charm that Fidesz is about to start here from government position, with nearly 50 strategic partnerships with large companies yesterday, the Minister was very proud of the large multinational companies' investments, and now they are going to start multitasking here and they are trying to argue with that. I wish you more sobriety, even from the point of view that I think it is not worth distinguishing, and this is not how you do it. But I have already said this today that our global economic crisis would certainly be handled differently than you are now trying to do. Basically, you have to say... your first step was that during this period, when economic operators have to experience enormous difficulties regardless of size, there are, of course, sectoral differences, and they would need temporary help in order not to dismiss people. In essence, you do not provide any assistance from the public side to these companies, and this is how you have to decide for yourself what you are doing. Then it follows that, by the way, those companies, those players, if you look specifically at what they offer and what they do for them, then there is a circle where they introduce the 50th tax code. You introduced 24 new taxes in 2010 and 11-12, you who, by the way, have thought or tried to show yourself that you are trying to reduce taxes. With all due respect, this attempt failed. It's not a tax reduction. After all, it doesn't matter how, smoke taxes or other taxes, but you're trying to collect everything. And if they do now that these companies are being taxed again, they will be taxed further, it may be the result of what can already be read about, but we are not only talking about Spar and not just about commercial companies, but also about other large companies. Bosch, for example, is to go to Heves County, where it has countless suppliers, and by the way, it has been dismissed because they have otherwise refused to do so in this economic situation, which we hope to achieve for as short a time as possible, after a few days, and until then they are unable to help this transition period. Congressman Harghita was talking about rubble cleaning, while I was saying that the ruins were painted or made here by you. Speak freely to fellow Members of Szijjártó and Kósa, who, by the way, have created a situation that has made the exchange rate much worse, and since then I call it conscious exchange rate abuse, you have certainly achieved this differently, that today, by the way, 1 euro is more expensive in Hungary than it was, by the way, ten or a few years ago. You created this situation. And if you go into this trading unit, you're the one who created the situation that costs a lot more to every customer today. In addition, in order to increase this, you have also done that there is a real difference in general sales tax and there is a great difference in approach here, and it is therefore difficult to say in a law that they are doing this well or badly, because there is a serious difference in approach, 27 percent of the general sales tax is being imposed on Members, and it affects the one million people who have a pension below 100 thousand forints. As a result of this tax policy of yours, 27 percent will be repaid to the state budget within, say, one month. This situation is now being added to the fact that when extra taxes are imposed, you are trying to allow the banks under the previous law or to say that they can expect the five-year description to make it less passed on to customers. Now, this story, together with all their ideas and aspirations, will not work, and, indeed, as a result of the general sales tax, the budget will be better off in this sense. That is why you, as a government that introduces the multitude of new tax races, must account for this. As a bit of a parentheses note: when you talk about taxing, you can safely admit that the government debt has increased over the last ten years, and only in the last one or two weeks the EUR 4 billion of emissions you need now to get through this period are you doing so. So, Congressman, I believe that ten years ago, to refer to the situation of a different type of global economic crisis, while you have made mistakes, and you are going on your own logic, which is not acceptable to us, to bring this here now, when you are introducing a new tax code and trying to hide it, I think that this is not right, and that is why what you have put forward as an argument system on this issue cannot be accepted. [[12.40]] So I urge you to try to come up with some new arguments, and not just focus on making some of these good-sounding cover stories look like you don't need this source anyway. That should also be taken into account, so let's consider it a smoke tax that you're doing in this case. One thing you can be sure of is that this is not the first step of the Democratic Coalition, but that they can finally take steps to prevent the bankruptcy of businesses, to survive them, and not to put new taxes on their heads. On the other hand, finally care that families, people, in this transition period, have income that they can spend, pay their checks. This should also be done by the tens of thousands of people and we can safely say that hundreds of thousands of people have already lost their jobs, lived or lived up to their little savings, and if they cannot find work in the coming months, it will put them in an impossible position. That's why you're responsible. With all of this, that there is a significant difference in our thinking, this is without doubt, and to that end, frankly, it does not matter to me whether it is called aid or anything else, the point is to ensure that people can earn income during the transitional period until this emergency is over, and they are in a position to make a decision, even if they are now trying to implement the law in which they are trying to introduce a new tax system with sound arguments for you. I think that you should make more arguments for yourselves to try to help people, and try to help businesses regardless of size, so that you don't have to let people go. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-47	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-05-07-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This is a controversial bill that lies before us. First of all, it should be decided whether this government is a patriot now, or if it is in the interests of the multinationals. There have already been some spicy elements in the debate, but let me refer back to a few months earlier when we were in the debate on corporate tax reduction. We said then that the corporate tax reduction that you have implemented will basically support the multinationals, because only a fraction of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarian companies are able to make use of this corporate tax; these are mainly large companies and large companies are mostly multinational companies. Now, you've done a very serious tax reduction for multinational companies in the first place, and now you're taking back part of it in another tax form, and you're banging your boobs right now that you're representatives of a patriot government. At the same time, if we look at the events of the last few days, they also point to the contradiction of this situation, as in these days, the Hungarian Foreign Minister is breaking his hands and feet, so that from his investment in Debrecen, which was postponed for a year by the developer of the investment, he is deciding to do something. As far as I know, BMW is not a domestic medium-sized enterprise, but a large foreign enterprise, but there it did not seem that we had a patriot government, which thought that the multinationals could defend themselves, were strong enough to do so, but does not know how to break their hands and legs with the Hungarian foreign minister in order to make this investment, please and please do something. And the particular contradiction of this bill is that, okay, it's okay that they're trying to put an end to a previous case, it's only possible that they'll end this story at the wrong time, because however they try to spin the words, the tax increase is called austerity everywhere in the world. By the way, the fact that such a tax increase is being applied in the face of the critical effects of the epidemic, through which a restriction is being applied, points to the contradiction of your actions. Moreover, it is clear from this bill that it is not just a measure for the time of the crisis caused by the epidemic, which has already been settled with a government decree, but that they want to introduce a new tax type once and for all in Hungary. This, by the way, has already increased to over 50 tax races. Well, let's remember, although we were talking about the past here, and I would only return to this in one respect, you promised that the tax return would be available on a beer mat, compared to which there are more than 50 taxes today, because you have not succeeded in multiplying the various taxes, and then some of these tax types have not only been invented, but some of the tax types that have already existed, such as VAT, have been raised. So not only do they increase the number of new taxes, but they also do not rise on existing taxes if they are in the mood for such a austerity measure. To sum up, we would support a bill, any bill that would aim, say, to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. If we support small and medium-sized companies, we will find a small number of foreign-owned companies, so that would be a patriotic measure, but your economic policy contains only traces of this, very difficult to detect. And when it comes to taxing large companies, your typical attitude is to reduce taxes on large, basically foreign-owned multinationals, and to make it better by entering into strategic special agreements. What happened to Spar? Did he look at you crookedly that for some reason he wasn't as kind to you as, say, any of the car companies? Or what has happened that, while ignoring or in conflictingly addressing strategic agreements, multinational companies are now being taxed? It would not be a problem for itself, but its timing is fundamentally flawed, as this is a austerity measure introduced in the middle of a crisis, which, by the way, shows its first negative effect: one of these companies announced that it would be forced to dismiss some of its employees during a period of time, to refer back to the previous debate on the agenda, when the most important thing is to protect as many jobs as possible in the country. To sum up, this is a very controversial and bad time bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-07-49	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congressman Székely.
u2020-05-07-50	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, My Fidesz fellow Member said in his speech as a speaker that this new retail tax is part of the patriot tax of a patriot government. Well, that's a very nice way to put it, because we're basically talking about it being actually a VAT increase. Who is affected by the government's proposal? Almost all areas: from clothing to food, music and cultural products distributors and, in addition to retail chains, companies operating gas stations are also affected by this extra burden; obviously, we are talking about multinationals. In our previous conversation, in our previous debate, we told you that the banks are being sabotaged in such a way that it doesn't hurt them too much, and they'll get that face back. Now the multinationals in this critical situation, when people lose their jobs, inflation has already been released in January-February, who still has work left, even... although you claim that wages are growing fantastically, unfortunately, the Hungarian people do not see this. So, in this situation, they themselves bring a new tax code where they say they tax multinationals, but they tax them so that they can easily pass this thing on to Hungarian people, who buy the products they sell in these trade chains; not just food, but all the others. [[12.50]] Now, of course, my fellow Member Z. Carpathian said that the petrol price is right down there, but it will be over 400 forints again, and then it will cost you this tax burden. So, in practice, this tax will ring in all areas of life, which, of course, Hungarian citizens will pay. I have already said in my previous speech, and I am going to say it now, and I am also referring to your speech, if you think that these companies, which we are talking about, are producing extra profit, and they are taking home thousands of billions of dollars, obviously not Hungary, but some other country, but rather their own register, not this year, but for years or even decades, and you really want to tax them, and you do not want to pass this on to Hungarian people, then the dividend tax must be at least this year... I might have put it wrong in my previous comment, so I suggest that if you want to tax the multinationals this year by 98 percent. This will indeed lead to the fact that somewhere a thousand or two kilometres from here someone will not buy his hundred and twenty-eighth luxury yacht, but in return, Hungarian people will get a little more at the end of the month. So I suggest that we stop fooling each other and really talk about what's important and not tax people, but companies that can allow that to happen even for a short time, but really give back something to the people of the country from whom they have been living very well for many decades. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2020-05-07-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Listening to the keynote speeches here, I have been constantly asking a big question about the introduction of this new tax, the retail tax, which my fellow opposition Members have already dealt with several times, is the transfer of tax and its impact on inflation. In this regard, we have not received adequate information from the Secretary of State or from the pro-government keynote speakers. I see this as a huge consequence, which, of course, will not be good for families. The tax rate could be said to be low, although compared to what this progressive tax was set out in four tax bands here in the legislation before us: the really small retail units, the net turnover of HUF 500 million, will not be affected and will then increase in lanes, reaching more than 2 percent of the net turnover of HUF 100 billion, most of it, but I think we can say that in the case of multinational companies. Yeah, it's just that when someone goes shopping and buys a box of milk or buys a pacifier for their baby, they're gonna pay for it, they're gonna put it on it, we're not gonna be naive, because that's the view of these multinationals, and it's also the view of the market economy, profit maximization, that if they get a burden, they're gonna put it on the consumer, because it's in his best interest to get more income. So who's gonna actually feel that effect again? The families, the Hungarian people who shop in retail units. Jobbik has consistently advocated the need to support the SME sector and put them in a competitive position. The Hungarian man goes to shopping, which can present cheaper products on the one hand, and is closer to his place of residence on the other, but the least he sees is that it is now a multi- or a Hungarian company. This would be the aim, the change of perspective, to make Hungarian people support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises by using them. I very much hope that, in the coming period, the government will also develop an appropriate alternative strategy to bring people into Hungarian businesses, companies that will spend their income here in Hungary, and, as has been said by my opposition colleagues, they will not shovel these funds out of the country with a billion forints. Overall, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to at least conclude on the inflation effects that are expected of this new tax and, moreover, what revenue resources are expected in the central budget overall. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-07-53	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2020-05-07-54	Mr President, Dear House, I do not envy Mr Secretary of State because he has received a rare enlistment and, to a large extent, from a small crowd or group of opposition representatives on a subject, as it typically concerns transfers by multi-company companies, as far as the special tax imposed on them is concerned, and which has already been largely paid to consumers. Here the question can be summarised in a sentence, Mr Secretary of State: it exists, it plans a monitoring system that is able to monitor, examine these processes, observe that there are market developments behind price changes, whether or not there are any market developments. I do not want to go deeper into the debate around the forint exchange rate, but it might be worth a separate meeting day with the conscious forint weakening that has taken place in the last ten years. I do not want to quote Prime Minister on this question who wants a weak forint; he was talking about weak people at the time, but I very much hope that there is still a way out of this situation. What hurts me, however, is the taxation of the multinational sector concerned, I agree once again with the inclusion of public burdens, so I do not want to pat this sector; there is one in this section of opposition space with whom I am not in the same camp, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. However, I see that the Government of Hungary has allowed a double, very unhealthy process since 2010. One of them is the release of productive, productive labour without any motivation, so the Government of Hungary has not tried to counterbalance it in order to keep young people at home, I am thinking of a rent-apartment program, a scholarship program, and stay at home, if you would have liked it, the elements of this could have been developed in my opinion. Another very negative phenomenon is that foreign workers, called migrant workers, have tried to build on the masses of Fidesz-KDNP in sectors where net labour shortages have occurred. However, the epidemiological emergency here would also provide the government with a redesign opportunity, but I also see alarming signals. In itself, to open agriculture to seasonal workers, and to do so on an urgent basis, we could not have an excuse in an agricultural country, although it is strange to me that there are hundreds of thousands of inactive non-working countrymen in villages in Hungary, in North-East Hungary, where one of my family's branches came from, this is also the typical situation in the villages, while there is no vocational training, a college in the nearby city, so once again, the issue of seasonal workers is a legitimate basis for debate, but what I see in the daily news is that a factory in Komárom intends to import 250 Korean guest workers at lightning speed. Meanwhile, Hungary's Government is taking time to sign a strategic agreement with a foreign labour agency in the midst of an epidemiological defence. Therefore, it is worth clarifying, Mr Secretary, what is the government's plan in this area. If the fact that the Hungarians are re-installing a mass of foreign workers, but the Hungarians are allowed to be dismissed from the multinational companies concerned and, in contrast, there is no counter-opinion, then the problem is that in the coming years the vulnerability of Hungarian workers will continue to increase, especially now that the Code of Work has basically become a recommendation, whether they respect it or not, and they are essentially trying to get the employee to sign anything just to keep his job. What I see on the contrary is that the Hungarian economy should not be built on a mass of foreign workers, but this could be the subject of other agendas. What belongs to this agenda is clearly the achievement of a discharge moratorium for the multi-enterprises concerned. So, if we have properly introduced countless moratoriums during the period of disease control, I think, Mr Secretary of State, that in exchange for priority support, in exchange for better market opportunities and now in the knowledge of the otherwise very solid special tax, we could also say that yes, we expect these companies not to start firing people mass in Hungary. [[13.00]] If Mr Secretary of State examines only the behaviour of the various car manufacturers in the last week or two, he sees that mass redundancies have started in Hungary. If we look at the fate of the people and our fellow countrymen who are being dismissed, we see that they get a very short period of time, they can get a kind of cloud of protection, here we can talk about a period of three months, and the amount of unemployment benefit, if you may say so, leaves something to be desired. Especially since we have already argued on the previous agenda that many jobseekers are not entitled to any financial benefits, and there is this ratio for the unemployed, even if the two groups do not show a full overlap. We see a socio-social cataclysm developing. Once again, I fully support the steps towards public burdens, but only if this does not involve strengthening the mass vulnerability of Hungarian workers. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-07-55	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment, although I don't see a lot of congressmen in the room anymore. [[There's no such signal.]] No one indicates their intention to comment, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert to respond to what has been said.
u2020-05-07-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After the previous very long debate, there was still a more lengthy debate than it could be expected that unity would exist in order to support this law by opposition representatives. Compared to this, we have had a surreal time when opposition representatives have virtually demonstrated that there are tax increases in Hungary and that the government is thinking about tax increases. I would ask the Members of Parliament to take a more complex look at the measures from a bird's perspective, so if we look only at the tax measures taken since the crisis or the emergency, we have decided on a tax reduction of HUF 368 billion, so in these few months. The two tax-enhancing measures, which were also discussed on the previous and current agenda, provided for a tax payment of HUF 91 billion, i.e. a tax reduction of HUF 368 billion and a tax increase of HUF 91 billion. I think if you look at the two together, the accusations that the government is thinking of raising taxes are unfounded. It is precisely that left-wing governments have been thinking about raising taxes, and this is the tax policy that we have not been pursuing since 2010. So we believe that tax cuts can be used to give the economy a stimulus, and we see that they have actually fulfilled their expectations. These two taxes, which we are talking about here, are clearly part of the tax policy that we have been pursuing since 2010, which is also a change in tax structure. So if we look at the tax measures of the past period, the tax burden on work is constantly reduced, year after year, so we are making employment cheaper. We believe, as we said in the previous debate, that we must give people jobs and decent wages. In order to maintain the fiscal balance, a great deal of whitening had to be done, a great deal of tax administration had to be reduced and simplified, and additional resources may also have to be involved in order to balance the budget. However, if we do this, if we look at the measures of the last few years, say a dozen years, they have always been those that have introduced either a negative externality, so let's say excise duty or type of consumer-traffic tax. So we are clearly following the same logic that we have seen over the past period, that we want to shift the weight of taxation to consumption and reduce income tax. So the accusations that have been made here, that there has been a tax increase in this period, and that, for example, a company has received a tax increase in its neck and what the consequences of that can be, I think we should look at it in a complex way, along with the socho reduction. A large employer, trading multi-company, will receive a 2 percentage point reduction from July after the total wage burden. I think that these are worth putting in the pan when we talk about this measure. It has also been said, but I no longer see MEPs thinking about tax increases and the expansion of taxes. I think it's worth looking at the facts of what we've been doing over the past few years. Only in 2019 and 2020, there are ten taxes less than in the previous period, so ten taxes have been abolished. There was one that was abolished, and there were some that we merged, so we are moving towards a simplified, more streamlined tax system. How to draw conclusions from this is to increase the number of taxes, obviously by looking only at this one proposal today and not raising our heads to a slightly wider horizon. I suggest we do the latter, so let's look at the events of the past period in a complex way. It has also been said that we promised a beer mat, and the tax administration is growing. I'd like to point out that we've gone beyond the beer mat, because the beer mat was about the personal income tax return, that it's gonna fit. I'd like to point out that we've been over this, there's no need for a tax return. So we don't even need a beer mat anymore, the tax authorities are preparing these tax returns. Individuals can press a remotely, home, computer, or even a mobile phone, an approval button to approve the draft statement, or even if they do not do so, the tax authority will make a valid declaration even if the individual does not look at it. So, not only did we not realize the beer mat, but we have overachieved it, and there is virtually no longer a tax return obligation as far as sja is concerned. The other issue, which has also been raised by several Members, is how this transfer can be prevented, so as to ensure that large multi-enterprises do not pass on this tax. Here again, let me refer back to the figures in the expoze that there are 36,000 retailers in Hungary. 34,000 won't be subject to this tax. So we're gonna have 34,000 retail units that can work with exactly the same tax burden, and thanks to the socho reduction, they're gonna be able to work with lower living costs. So 34,000 retail companies are not likely to raise a price for this. Then why do we think that this other 2 thousand will be in a position to pass on this tax decisively, thus potentially endangering the market situation that exists between competing companies? So we believe that competition in the market can, in this respect, force a restraint. We will see how this restraint will be achieved, but even if it is passed on by the larger companies, because for some reason the market will not force it to pass on this tax, we will see that the average rate of this tax will be between 1 and 2 percent. If you just look at the pricing technique of a store network when, let's say, you're selling a product, and the other prices are up to 5-10 percent higher, you're talking about a tax burden of 1-2 percent. So even if the price is being moved by this tax, I think it is a minimum mover, and it is not a tax that can significantly influence the value of the products. So, overall, I think that there are guarantees that do not allow this tax to be passed on or make it difficult. This will result from the functioning of the market itself and from the fact that the 34,000 companies concerned are not subject to this tax. So, overall, I would like to say that I was confused in the debate about the fact that we have received, in fact, dozens of tax increases from the opposition in the last six months alone, so it is clear that they are still thinking of raising taxes when they are thinking at source. Now we have these two proposals, which also requires a tax restructuring, which, by the way, involves multi-chains and multi-business companies with higher capacity, and we have received critical comments here as well. So I hope that we have been able to clarify these in this negotiation. Overall, we have received a number of positive proposals at the beginning of the debate, thank you very much for these, and in the course of further discussion, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-07-57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws to encourage adult learning until closure. Government referral T/10313. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to László György, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-05-07-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government considers it a strategic task to create a working and knowledge-based economy and society, and to improve Hungary's competitiveness. One of the fundamental conditions for economic growth is a skilled labour force able to adapt flexibly to social change and labour market needs. [[13.10]] By early 2020, we reached the point of nearly 4.5 million people working in Hungary, more than 800 thousand more than in 2010. The employment rate has risen higher than ever, above 70 percent. The number of job seekers has fallen to 160,000 before the Crown Virus crisis, with a 3.5 percent unemployment rate reached by early 2020 being one of the lowest in the European Union. Our economy has been characterised by dynamic expansion in recent years. By summing up the economic growth rates of the Member States of the European Union between 2013 and 2019, Hungary is one of the first five countries in terms of economic growth in the period under consideration. Dear House, At the same time as the economy continues to grow at a high pace, skilled workers will be valued, including the vocational training and adult education systems. The current crisis also highlights the appreciation of adult education, in which we find that the re-training of workers who are out of the labour market due to the crisis caused by the virus can make a significant contribution to the restructuring of the economy to higher value added professions. We have also made significant progress in terms of adult education since 2010. While only 3 percent of adults participated in adult education in 2010, 6 percent in 2018. In addition to the results achieved, however, industry 4.0, the rapid expansion of digitalisation and the development of the economy and changes in society raise new challenges, to which we need to respond adequately in order to maintain competitiveness. In response to these challenges, we renewed our vocational training and adult education systems last year. The aim of this bill is to fine-tune the adult education system in order to provide more and higher quality training for Hungarians. Dear House, The bill before you is the second stage in the renewal of the adult education system. In parallel with the renewal of the vocational training system, the Parliament established the basis for a new adult education system by adopting a new law on vocational training. The bill before you proposes, as the next step of this transformation, the promotion of adult training and the necessary amendments to it. The effectiveness of the adult education system is decisive for the competitiveness of the economy and is increasingly appreciated in technological development. From an economic strategy point of view, it is essential to introduce and return non-workers to the labour market and to continuously improve the skills and knowledge of workers in order to increase the added value of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. The operation of an effective and effective adult education system is a means of achieving both goals. In implementing the quality transformation of the domestic system of adult education, we have set policy objectives that will enable the system to operate more efficiently and effectively. One of the most important of these was the development of the measurability of adult education and the provision of the data necessary to monitor and manage adult learning activities in full adult education. From 1 January 2020, the amendment of the Adult Education Act assigned the necessary tools to the target. In order for the policy to have reliable and wide-ranging information on domestic adult education programmes, the reporting system for adult education has been gradually developed. This will keep the basic data of the trainings up to date in the case of renewed adult training starting from autumn and from 1 January 2021 in the case of previous running courses. The new reporting system will be the only system to which trainers will have to comply with the reporting obligation, thus eliminating the obligation to provide parallel data in multiple databases, i.e. reducing the administrative burden for adult trainers and trainees. It is also used to measure the development of an adult education career tracking system, which provides labour market data for those performing individual adult training programmes in a searchable, analytic and visualised form, similar to the higher education career tracking system, so that the usefulness of training can be established. Dear House, Allow me to summarise in four points the key aspects of the renewal of the adult education system. 1. The important aim of the renewal of the adult education system is to improve the labour market relevance of adult education, i.e. to better understand labour market needs and their changes, to show them and to regulate content and support planning tailored to their needs. In order to achieve this, the draft sets out an important instrument for the creation of a labour market forecasting system. This will create a forecasting and analysis platform that can reliably predict labour market needs in the short, medium and long term and at regional level. With the help of the system, the professional management of adult education can carry out much more accurate analyses and, on the basis of these, can strengthen the market-oriented functioning of adult education through targeted interventions. 2. By amending the aid scheme, the training loan for individual motivation was established in the adult education system as from 1 January 2020. This could significantly improve the availability of adult education and thus increase the number of trainees. With the adoption of the proposal, in addition to the training loan, the institution of a scholarship that can be paid in adult education, which can be paid by the adult education institution in the case of approved training courses. 3. The aim of fine-tuning regulation is to further reduce administrative burdens. In the case of adult education, the entry burden for trainers has already been reduced by the amendment that entered into force in January. As a result of the current amendment, several sets of data are removed which can be easily determined from the other data provided. The draft before you will further reduce the administrative burden by removing certain documentation burdens related to operation and reporting. It also includes further facilitations by rationalising the reporting obligations and by creating the possibility of automated reporting and/or receiving data. 4. To increase the efficiency of reporting, the proposal also provides for a financial incentive in addition to the strict sanctioning system already in place. With this amendment, trainings on which training data is provided in the reporting system for adult education can be described as costs in the calculation of the corporate tax base. Dear Parliament, The measures set out in the draft aim to ensure that the system of adult education is up-to-date and provides competitive, modern knowledge appropriate to labour market needs for the broadest possible number of training participants, with less bureaucratic burden and unnecessary data provision. The bill provides a sure basis for strengthening the Hungarian economy and preserving Hungary's competitiveness. By adopting the bill before you, it will be possible for the renewed system of adult education to provide a continuous and appropriate response to the challenges of the ever-changing economic environment. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-07-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We agree on a lot of issues. Before I go to the content of the bill, I would also like to share today's information with the House. At the government briefing, the Prime Minister said that the government also decided on re-training and adult training. This may also be an answer to why it is important that we are discussing this now in this epidemiological or pandemic situation. It is very important that those who have lost their jobs in the last few weeks will be eligible for training and adult education, and perhaps it should be mentioned here in parentheses that this bill also includes a system of national priority training, which will help them to find their way back to the labour market, or if they want to keep their jobs, they will be given modern, modern knowledge during adult education. [[13.20]] The other thing I would like to note is that last year we were here some people, I remember Ander Balázs, when in November there was a general debate of the VET Act, and in this connection we also debated the Adult Education Act, the 2019 CXII. a law laying the foundations for a new adult education system. But to go back a bit historically as a historian, adult education has a history both in Europe and in Hungary, whether I am thinking of England or Scandinavian countries, I am thinking of the folk college movement. I am thinking of what they wanted to take over in Hungary, too, so that adults could join the school bench, because the world is changing so quickly, or this world is moving so fast, that modern, modern, as Mr. State Secretary said, such a knowledge-based and work-based economy, a knowledge-based society and a work-based economy, I can also say, can be created. Because it's not easy to get into a non-school training with an adult head, but if you do it, you do it when you get high-quality training, when it's demand-oriented, so it's not the supply that determines it. This is what we saw in the socialist period, that the supply was there, the important thing is to have a supply, to have students, to meet the conditions as quickly as possible. No one cared if those people were able to move forward after that, or just how modern that knowledge was. So this is exactly what we want to turn around, and the number that the Secretary of State has said has increased from 3 percent to 6 percent of adults, shows that we need to work hard to improve here. But I read a survey prepared for the bill, preparing for this debate: today, Hungary has not really been able to bring to the public why adult education is good and why it is important. It's usually chosen by adults under the age of 35. So those who are over 35 or 40 are only a few percent involved in adult education. There was such a saying in Hungary, perhaps it is now that the good priest is learning to the death. What we want now with adult education is for a wide range of society to learn for the rest of its life. It's the lifelong learning. This is lifelong learning, because we live in a world that needs to be done. And this is the bill that T/10313. This is precisely what we are discussing as the legislative proposal for amending certain laws in relation to the promotion of adult education. So, to sum up the history a little bit, we need to put adult education into the public a little bit more, because there is still room for improvement in Hungary. His culture has not yet developed that we are surrounded by a world worth and need to learn for the rest of our lives so that we can prevail in life. So this is knowledge... and most of all in the labour market, because, as the Prime Minister says, I myself confess: if there is work, there is everything, if there is no work, there is nothing. And if you have a job, you can get a decent wage and support the family. Allow me, too, to come to a few points on what Mr Secretary of State has said about the importance of these amendments. Let me give you a sentence from an earlier strategy: this Lisbon strategy, in Lisbon in 2000, the EU adopted it for the economy. And the failure to achieve this shows that in 2010 the European Union adopted a new strategy, called a Europe 2020 strategic programme. This one sentence from the Lisbon Strategy, which I took arbitraryly from 20 years ago, says: Europe must become the world's most dynamic, knowledge-based economy by 2010, and this has not, to say the least, succeeded in achieving sustainable development, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion. That's the quote. The Union itself has seen that this needs to be changed and has formulated a strategic programme ten years ago that has made economic growth three-pillar. And that's where education comes in. That's where adult education comes in. One of them, and I think that the Hungarian government considers it its own, is that smart growth must be sought; this is an economy based on so-called knowledge and innovation; sustainable growth must be pursued; a greener and more competitive economy is needed. The Secretary of State has also stressed competitiveness, and that is the right thing to do, and so do I. The third is inclusive growth, inclusive growth, creating an economy characterised by high levels of employment and social and territorial cohesion. Please, I don't want to praise you here right now, but I remember the employment figures before 2010, I was in the opposition, and in 2006 I first started in the parliamentary elections to see what kind of indicators they were. The employment rate was 50 or a few percent, and now we're about 70 percent. So this has been a significant change in the last ten years; and social and territorial cohesion, that I come from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, which is a difficult area, how economic catch-up is achieved. It is not an easy area to catch up with a more developed region or the central part of the country, it is only possible with education, vocational training and adult education, and, of course, with university training, but we know that not everyone can go to university and college. Social cohesion means that we cannot give up on the labour force with low qualifications, the skill is not everywhere, but on the one hand, through adult training, to acquire or deliver to them professional qualifications and competences with which they can become employees. And then a little bit about the bill itself, I think, Mr. Secretary, I feel that you've summarized it well. The strategic objective of this bill or the next step is to fine-tuning, which has also been said, to make the adult education system demand-oriented, not to dominate supply, and to this end the labour market forecasting system will be introduced, the essence of which is to combine demand and supply information, to set training and emission requirements in line with labour market needs. There are therefore training and emission requirements that the labour market needs. So it creates a new system, and this requires an understanding, presentation, identification of current and future labour market changes, job market, fluctuations, wage dynamics in this context, anticipating changes in immediate and future training needs. This would be a new data model system that would predict these expected steps and require an advanced IT system. What is the other, the labour market forecasting system? A series of training courses of national importance will be introduced, which will later be defined by the Minister for Adult Education in a government decree to be established. The aim of these key labour market trainings is to achieve training that is fast, flexible, and that is just what we are seeing in advance, but the economy needs it. The conditions for certification will also be laid down by the Government in a regulation. I would like to briefly mention a number of issues that have already been addressed by the Secretary of State: the reporting system for adult education, the reduction of administrative burdens. It'll be a system that needs to be recharged. Measuring satisfaction: it is very important that those who take part in training are satisfied with it. Do you have the hours? Are those clocks worth anything? Let's speak Hungarian. [[13.30]] We need to pay close attention to this, because the only way to make adult education more popular or acceptable is to see this measure of satisfaction, and this is a very good element of this proposal. It is also a good element of the financial incentive, training on which the adult training data is provided in the reporting system will be described as a cost. In addition to this training loan, which is already available, as I understand it, a scholarship, the Secretary of State has spoken about this. I would just like to mention that it is a fundamental issue that funding should be provided in training, because this is a very important element of this. In summary, the aim of the 2013 Act, i.e. the new amendment to the Adult Education Act, is to increase efficiency, to have an effective management with a fully completed reporting obligation, to follow the professional career path of those involved in adult education and to operate a new labour market forecasting system. On this basis, the content of adult education can be better adapted to the needs of the labour market, with the training of an adequate number of skilled workers. Overall, these amendments further enhance the importance and weight of adult education in vocational training and make training more effective. I call on this House, including my fellow opposition Members, to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-61	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-07-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This bill is not from the devil at all, so I would like to say at the outset, but we have concerns, and I think that these concerns are real concerns, and yet they do exist, a lot in the pro-government benches. If you will find something here in my statement that you may find offensive, I ask you very nicely that you do not take it personally. I think that, apart from me, a few of my fellow Members, including those sitting in the pro-government benches, have the paper that I personally respect you for, and that some of the economic policy aspects of social catch-up are a masterpiece of their kind. By the way, I could recommend reading to those sitting in the pro-government benches here, because if something should be accepted, it should be done in practice, exactly what the Secretary of State may have outlined in 2013, if I remember correctly. Anyway, I printed it out, it's on my shelf, I'm all-in, I should use it in the pro-government benches. What we see is that if the 21st century In the century something is true, then it is that the knowledge acquired can fade terribly quickly in specific cases. Some surveys or prognosis suggest that 60 percent of young people going to school will work in a profession that does not even exist yet. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: That's true!]] And in order to adapt to this, learning would certainly be the key, and learning about lifelong learning would be very important, as mentioned earlier, the ability to learn and the need for learning. If any of this were to be a mistake, then, I think, what this bill would have to do with its purpose would be a ferocious rumor. If you look at these domestic data, there is indeed a shift in the last decade from the 3-percent rate of participation in adult education, and this level is now 6 per cent. There is, indeed, a step forward, but if we compare it to, say, the Scandinavian level, which is 30 percent, then I think we have more to go on. Among those with a basic degree of education, this willingness to teach adults is then a disaster in Hungary. What I know of numbers, I have also looked through a number of studies prepared for my leading speakers today, and from 2011 there are data showing that in Finland this indicator was 38 per cent, according to OECD data, 22 per cent, and in Hungary it is only 2 per cent. So precisely in those layers where it would be vital that they acquire some new knowledge, a new profession, willingness is very low. We hope, by the way, that the wisdom of those sitting in the pro-government benches, and that this bill should not be derailed, so, God gives it so that some sort of displacement can be achieved here too. Among the reasons why Hungary is so poorly ranked in these rankings, some can be listed, such as the fact that these trainings may be expensive in relation to Hungarian wages. If we see the possibility of a tuition loan or a scholarship showing up, we can only be happy to have a responsible mindset. But in many cases these courses were also inflexible; we can think about the duration and duration of these courses. Then there is one other thing that may be even more the key to all of this, and this is that the Hungarian worker is in shock. I would quote OECD surveys again: about 1800 hours a Hungarian average worker works every year, and if you do not believe it, fellow Members, a Danish or a German average worker does not reach 1400 hours in the same respect. So there's a 400-hour extra burden for an average Hungarian employee, which he really needs to put into his work to support his family, himself, and with such an increased burden, he may not want to further train himself in adult education. Then it is also said that in many cases the employer did not consider this important. Let's just say he keeps the employee on a level that, in the long run, is not good for him either. It should also be recognised that there is an employer's responsibility here, because if you let and help your employee train, it will bring him more and more profits in the long run. If we look at the background of this low participation rate in adult education from another aspect, we can see that 75 percent of the 10th grade students who study there perform on a certain level of text understanding. So if someone has such bad indicators, virtually functional illiterate, then they really cannot be expected or expected, only the practice shows that the numbers show that he cannot train himself further. Moreover, the reduction in the number of hours would not have been good for this, which further increased the problems of vocational training in Hungary. Contrary to European trends, the dropout in Hungary is now over 12 percent, and such a high proportion of early school leavers make it true that Zoltán Pokorni's name only says something in the pro-government benches Zoltán Pokorni's statement that ten thousand children go to the lecsó every year in Hungary. Tens of thousands of children, with whom we may have to do something later, because it would be a bad prospect for the state, for the taxpayers to support him, or there would be even worse scenarios if, say, he had to make a living out of crime or the misery in which he himself lives, he would regenerate in a exponential way. So we should do something about them, but it would be better not later, but as soon as possible, but this would be linked to the debate of another bill. [[13.40]] Gypsy youth should also be mentioned here, because two thirds of them leave school as early school leavers, no profession, no graduation, and so the integration goals that this bill has set itself are indeed becoming a mirage in Hungary, especially if we look at the 2010 figures, according to which about 80 percent of the Hungarian Roma population aged 16 and over had a maximum of 8 general qualifications. And to bring you very recent data, I have just looked at this, in the secondary schools of Kunszentmiklós or Nagykőrös district, the drop-risk indicator stands at 43.5 and 50 percent respectively. Ladies, gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, That's brutal! If there's anything dangerous about this country's future, one of them is this. At the end of that period, during the turn of gangsters, Hungarian society experienced this in order to ensure that the agricultural cooperatives, the socialist major industry, and the mines could support and employ the army of untrained people. The fact is that this model could still work in the '70s and '80s, as the case may be. As we move forward in time, the XXI. The challenges of the 20th century offer different tasks to the leaders of Hungarian economic policy and social policy. Thus, the people with the hammer, the so-called single-use production line workers, need less and less. This country and a developing country should be set up for something else, and the other thing is that human capital should be developed, and if you will apply this law well, this is your responsibility, then perhaps there will be progress here, because the quality of human capital in the knowledge economy is a relevant and explanatory element of economic development. And then, to bring up more statistics here, according to the HDI, Human Development Index, only Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia are preceded in the European Union: among those over 25, the situation in Hungary seems to be about 11.1 years of school history, more than one year in Slovakia and 14.2 years in Finland. Robotization and digitalization are extremely advanced, and the fact is that if we look at the survey carried out by experts from the Hungarian National Bank, according to which between 2000 and 2015, the proportion of skilled workers in the corporate sector decreased by 11 percent, and let's say we add the 2015 survey of Economist Intelligence Unit, which looked at 56 countries based on their preparation for the future, then Germany, let's say, was in 7th place, and Hungary was only 25. So, here there are very serious, very serious relationships. At that time, according to the report of the World Economic Forum of 2016-17, where 138 countries were visited, Hungary was ranked 113rd in terms of progress in value chains, and this is none other than competitiveness, my fellow Members, or rather the colonial model of incompetence. We should really compete with knowledge, and the goal is, then we say that it is absolutely good; the situation that this society is facing every day, however, is quite different from what they usually talk about in the pro-government benches. These labour market needs are changing in a shocking way, and in order to adapt to this, it would certainly require reshapeable workers, a military which, on the basis of, say, the Human Capital Index or report reports, Finland can meet very nicely, but if Hungary needs to be brought forward because of what we are talking about here, we can say again that there are serious shortcomings. And I don't mention Finland for nothing. In 1867 we made a deal and flew forward, the country evolved, and in 1867 there was a famine that killed a lot of people. But something has been recognized in Finland. Education in Finland was good, not because Finland was a rich state, but vice versa, because Finland became a rich state, because they created a very, very good education system, and they recognized quite simply the law that if they wanted to be competitive, then people must be the focus, because it is not the man for the economy, but the economy for the man. The investment in human capital, which is also targeted by this bill, would have very serious spill-over effects, I referred here to, say, integration objectives, but other aspects could also be brought here. One thing is certain, however, that we believe in it, and I therefore believe that we will vote in confidence, but that will be your loss, and I will say once again how this bill is used. So, we believe in what Széchenyi said, that the power of a nation is given by a multitude of educated heads of people. I wish you to keep this in mind, so that you will apply this bill, on which I will tell you a few more concerns in the next round. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-07-63	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-07-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, the Parliament launched a new system of training, vocational training and training in connection with the laws already adopted. The bill before us is the next step in this transformation and proposes to encourage adult training and to amend the laws necessary for it. The amendment is the implementation of the planned stepwise transformation of the adult education system, which is also essential for the effective conduct of restructuring training, which is also part of the economic protection action plan adopted by the government in the context of emergency management. Overall, we can therefore say that these amendments will further increase the importance and weight of adult education within vocational training, make training more effective by adapting to market needs and reduce the administrative burden for participants. Dear House, The new element in the structure of adult education will therefore be further amended in the context of the next steps in the strategic transformation of adult education, following the legislative amendment that entered into force on 1 January 2020. Effective management is based on a fully completed reporting obligation, which provides the basis for monitoring the career path of adult education and the functioning of a new labour market forecasting system. In addition, the system provides the State with an opportunity to validate national and international training statistics and, thanks to greater transparency, helps our country to improve its position in the different rankings related to training. On this basis, the content of adult education can be better adapted to the needs of the labour market by enabling the training of an appropriate worker in the relevant profession. The current amendment further increases the quality of training by guaranteeing the objectivity of student satisfaction measurement. In addition to increasing training efficiency, the administrative burden can be reduced, under certain conditions, by concluding written adult training contracts, issuing a certificate, and removing training obligations in relation to the measurement of satisfaction. One of the strategic objectives of the new regulation is to make the adult education system demand-oriented. To this end, a labour market forecasting system will be introduced. The system to be set up will be implemented as a forecast analysis system that brings together labour market demand and supply information, thereby enabling training requirements and emission requirements to meet short, medium and long-term labour market needs. [[13.50]] This requires knowledge, presentation of labour market needs, identification of current and future labour market changes, and forecasting immediate and future training needs and changes. The actual implementation will examine the integration of current analytical and forecasting systems and processes into the planned new system to be established. The new labour market forecasting system to be set up is based on data that are suitable for managing and forecasting the labour market, labour market fluctuations, wage conditions, the continuous evolution of the economic structure, training needs and needs in a single data model. The new system is therefore based on extensive statistical data and exploits advanced IT opportunities in data analysis. The data required for the effective operation of the labour market forecast system is provided and received through IT systems through dedicated interfaces. The bill does not impose the obligation to provide information to adult training, but makes it easier by rationalising the reporting obligations and by creating the possibility of automated data reporting and receiving data. For example, there is no need to provide independent data to the national statistical survey programme in order to fulfil the reporting obligation of the adult training, given that it will be further served by the reporting system for adult training. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the proposal, a range of courses of national importance will be introduced, as we have already heard, which will be defined by the Minister for Adult Education under the conditions laid down in the later Government Decree. These are mostly training courses that are of national scope and are organised to achieve a key labour market objective. The conditions for certification will also be laid down in the Government Decree. Training courses of national importance are intended to be dedicated to providing the necessary missing professionals for the management of economic strategically high-priority situations, thus becoming feasible in a smooth, flexible manner, within the minimum necessary period of time, based on data from the labour market forecasting system. On the basis of the bill, it becomes optional for notified training courses to specify the data circuits that are essential for track tracking and the data circles that can be easily calculated from further data, in the framework of the written contract for adult training and the certification and the reporting of adult training. The amendment also changes the measurement of the satisfaction of the persons involved in the training, as the related data will be uploaded to the system by electronic mail received from the reporting system for adult training, not by the adult training, but by the person participating in the training. The draft also provides for a financial incentive to increase the efficiency of reporting. There has been talk of encouraging employers on both sides. With this amendment, trainings for which adult training data is provided in the reporting system for adult training will be described as costs in the corporate tax base calculation. This is what the amendment to the law on corporate tax and dividend tax is used to do. [[In the notary seat, Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is a fundamental issue for participation in adult education, perhaps one of the most important incentives to provide funding for participants in training and training. This has also been discussed by the speakers before me. Accordingly, the bill provides for the establishment and expansion of incentives to motivate participants. In addition to the training loan introduced earlier, a scholarship to be paid in adult education is now being introduced. The conditions for scholarship funding, with all its details, will also be regulated by a government decree to be published later. In addition, the transfer of data between the organisation providing the training loan and the reporting system for adult training will be covered for the training loan. Training loans and scholarships serve general adult training purposes such as output-driven training, promoting training efficiency and increasing the number of adult learners. The learning outcomes-based output requirements for training are linked to the professional requirements of the economy based on real job expectations. The acquisition of these requirements in the new system can be facilitated by well-motivated instructors and their provision if the persons involved in the training are properly encouraged to continue their studies. They will also be given the opportunity to find quality training in accordance with their professional careers and personal goals and to receive the necessary support to complete the training. Ladies and gentlemen, The funding for adult education has already been established by the new VET Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, and the basic training part of the National Employment Fund can be used for the organisation and development of adult training activities, which is defined as a goal of support in the Adult Education Act. Let me make one more important comment towards the end of my comment. Here a number of people mentioned the Scandinavian example, the example in Finland, with which I fully agree. I have an old thought, obsession, if it is possible to put it this way, that there have been a lot of training programmes in the last 30 years, in the last 20 years, even in the last 10 years, a great variety of professional trainings, a great variety of adult trainings, which obviously want to give a profession to applicants and interested persons. Many times, perhaps I can say that I have often missed personality development in these trainings, which may be related to our shared experience, as my fellow Member Mr Ander mentioned, that the problem was not necessarily with professional training, but at all with basic training, basic motivations, and that is why we need to involve personality development. Speaking of Finland and the Scandinavian example, perhaps one of the most important aspects of education in Finland was the opening, launching, completing and, if I may put it this way, this folk college training, education, which, we all know, was an adult education program, one of the most important aims was to develop personality, and within this, together with this context or complexly linked to various professional training courses. So I would sense the release or completion of adult education in that I would see if we could involve personality development in this, because in fact, what enables us to know who we are, why we are, why we learn, what we want to achieve, what we want to achieve, what we want to achieve, whether for personal purposes or for family purposes or for our smaller or larger social environment, what my goal is, what my mission is pathetically in this world and in this environment. [[14.00]] To sum up, these amendments, in our view, will further increase the importance and weight of adult education in vocational training, including in vocational training, if that is the case, make training more effective by adapting to market needs and reduce the administrative burden of participants. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill and we ask that all groups support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-65	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-07-66	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Adult education is an important element of the short, medium and long-term operation of the Hungarian economy in three respects. The replacement of the school system is also a fundamental issue for job seekers who are out of primary school if public work is to be replaced by more qualified work. And taking into account the training of young people without a profession for lack of skills can also result in a reduction of the burden on the community. Digitalisation, technological development, the speed and frame of which we feel on our own skin on a daily basis, even individuals with high qualifications require that their knowledge be updated from time to time, developed, and accounted for. Not least, the steady pace of changes in the economic structure requires a new adjustment from workers with professions, and it is only possible to change the profession within the framework of adult education that many times now exists. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] A good regulation encourages the employer to treat its financial resources for adult education as a high level of investment for the expected, multiple-reimbursing benefits. It is also necessary to make the employee interested with a scholarship, a salary supplement, a higher classification, etc. The role of the State should also be to ensure that statutory regulators guarantee those involved in adult education that their financial investments will be repaid to statutory adult training organisations engaged in meaningful education. The amendment to the law before us only partially meets these criteria. It is good that the bill clarifies the rules for reporting to the reporting system for adult education and establishes a labour market forecasting system with a view to adapting the content and output of adult education to market needs in the short, medium and long term. We consider it to be a step forward that the bill creates the possibility of a scholarship that can be paid by the adult education institution to the persons involved in training, and creates the basic condition for the establishment of a training loan by linking the database of the organisation providing training credit with the adult education reporting system. It can be encouraging for employers that, in the future, not only training but also education can be counted as a cost for businesses, as OKJ will be replaced by professional education in the future, so it will also make the cost eligible for companies that only schools can carry out after that. However, we note with reservations that training of major importance for the national economy will be defined, as it is proposed that only the Minister responsible for adult education is entitled to do so, currently László Palkovics is Minister for Innovation and Technology, and the conditions for certification will only be laid down in a Government Decree. We think it means creating a rubber rule laid down in a government decree, which can lead to a subjective decision. This definition may, in some cases, constitute a refusal or, in other cases, a justification for payment or support in the future. I must ask you that this is not a direct consequence of the 105/2020 support for reduced working time in times of emergency, in the context of the economic protection action plan. under the conditions laid down in the government decree. After all, the regulation states that aid can only be granted to an employer if it can demonstrate in a credible manner that the retention of workers is a national economic interest linked to its continuing economic activity and that state aid can only be granted for training which is of particular importance for the national economy. There is a certain guarantee that the Minister responsible for the sector should be consulted, but there is no other possibility of commenting beyond the right of individual ministers. Shouldn't employees' organisations also be consulted on these issues? In the future, the state only wants to accept training that is important to it, and to let everything else go. This, on the other hand, is another challenge for those involved in training, since it will not be clear to everyone which training needs to be successfully completed in order to obtain the qualification accepted by the State. We recommend that the legislator find the system with which this system will be clear to simple users. As a reporting system for adult education, the legislator identifies the vocational training and adult training module of the basic system for public education registration and study, i.e. the KRÉTA system, but there have been only complaints in public education and vocational training for years. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to update and modernise this in order to enable the system to be able to accept the databases of adult education. In the future, data on the satisfaction measurement of persons involved in training for both reporting and authorised adult training activities will be uploaded to the system by electronic mail received from the reporting system for adult training, not by the adult training person, but by the training person. This amendment shifts the administrative burden from the institution to the individual, which is likely to increase the burden of the training participants, and the government takes it for granted that all adult learners have at home computers, internet access and knowledge that they can meet the new requirements. In our view, this part of the amendment should be adapted to the reality of everyday life, because in this form, a significant part of the participants' opinion is omitted from the measurement of satisfaction, so that feedback can be prepared with false data. I would like to say a few sentences about the labour market forecasting system. What we mean is that on the one hand, it aims to develop a labour market forecasting system based on comprehensive full-scale data collection, supported by current analytical technology, and, on the other hand, to develop a forecasting and analysis platform that can reliably predict labour market needs at short, medium and long-term regional levels. However, this chapter of the law is equivalent to a self-religion, since the government also admits that it currently does not have sufficient information on domestic labour market processes. It will also be admitted that the domestic employment policy system has basically been abolished over the past ten years. This is coming back when the problems relating to unemployment cannot be sufficiently addressed in good time. Before entering Fidesz power in 2010, labour centres at that time carried out labour market surveys and projections on a regular basis for several years, monthly, quarterly, every six months and annually. These surveys, prognosis, have ceased with the destruction of the labour organisation. Fidesz did not need professional monitoring of domestic labour market processes; political communication clearly shows why. This irresponsible, destructive attitude has resulted in the re-invention of Spanish wax now, unfortunately. This self-acknowledgment also shows how this area was destroyed by the government over a decade by saying that a work-based society is being built in Hungary and that a million new jobs will be created in the economy in ten years. It seems that from the perspective of 12 years of promise, neither commitment has been achieved by the government, that unemployment is currently rising at a rapid pace, that the work-based society is creaking, and that in ten years there has not been a million jobs promised. And now it's dropping out of the labour market on a daily basis, three, four, but, unfortunately, sometimes it's 5,000 people. With regard to this part of the amendment, I also have to ask why the establishment of a labour market forecast system should be done in the Adult Education Act, not, for example, in the Employment Promotion Act and in the Labour Supply Act. [[14.10]] There's one more thing I want to talk to you about. The proposal introduces the possibility of using training loans and scholarships, the detailed rules of which will be laid down in a government regulation. What will be included in the manyth government decree, mentioned in this bill, is not exactly known, but it is very similar to this construction, which is offered by the current student credit system. Do we understand that this system is also intended to be adapted in adult education? Finally, the possibility of adapting to labour market needs has always been and is an exciting issue for employment politicians. A prerequisite for flexible adaptation is a relatively qualified worker with good foundations, whose knowledge and experience can be based on the next level. Unfortunately, most or a significant part of Hungarian workers are not like this. In many cases, it is good to have many of the eight classes completed in Hungary. Switching to related professions may be possible for adults, but less so that, for example, from bakers to carpenters or butchers can become butchers. In principle, short-term prognosis may have a role to play in adult education, but the medium to but mainly the long-term seems rather uncertain. There are elements of the amendment, this proposal, which allow us to see a clearer picture in the mazes of adult education so far, but there are still many open questions that are not reassuring to us. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-07-68	Dear House, In a very brief summary, I can say that this is an absolutely eligible and positive bill in its intentions, but the implementation of which raises serious questions. However, the fact that we are discussing this law here in Parliament today or at this time is a mistake for a number of reasons, so the negotiation of this bill is not timely. One of the reasons you're talking about is the coronal virus epidemic. There are two aspects of this proposal that are not yet timely to be discussed. First of all, we don't know what the government's suggesting. Because I understand, Mr. Congressman, that the Minister said today at the government info that there will be a proposal for adult education. We see, for example, the answer to the question where on the Student Loan Center page, where the Student Loan Plus is presented, and then the student loans for adult education will be available in the form of Student Loan Plus, but we do not see the detailed rules for adult student loans. And we don't see exactly what kind of measures the government is planning to take in the case of a coronal virus epidemic. I think it's important. If there is a need for amendment, apart from the fact that, under the delegation law, the government can do so, but if it does not want long-term solutions, then it can bring them to Parliament, but I will say it once again: Parliament could adapt to what is the government's intention, or it could give its opinion. Thus, the government also asks for authorisation in the field of adult education in virtually blindness. Secondly, why is this proposal timeless? Because, obviously, the coronal virus epidemic has not been the reason for the necessary consultations, or at least the results of these consultations, which Parliament cannot know. We do not know what the views of the actors in adult education on this proposal are, nor did they have the opportunity to give a detailed opinion on this, nor do we know what the views of employers' representatives or employees' representatives on this proposal are. Without this, a responsible decision cannot be taken in the Parliament, otherwise it is not lawful, because the legislative law would also require the attachment of these opinions. Our fellow Members here say that this is a strategic decision. It must be a strategic decision, but we don't know which strategy it fits into. Because that strategy is not ahead of us, and given the changes in vocational training and adult education and higher education in recent years, we see a lot of things here, but certainly not strategic thinking. So it would be necessary to really have strategic thinking, and if this amendment were based on strategic thinking, then it would be essential for this strategic thinking, and this is the other reason why this proposal is premature to wait for what will happen after the coronal virus epidemic. So no one today can say in a responsible way what the labour market situation is, what employment situation will be, what employment and training needs will be in the labour market in a quarter or six months' time. We're making a law for a situation we don't know. And it can be said that the law basically tells us that we should trust the government, that the government will resolve this, but let's be honest: perhaps it would be an excessive expectation, based on the employment and training decisions of the past period, to ask us to trust the government blindly. And while we are at the point of strategic thinking, let me also mention that both the Secretary of State and our pro-government colleagues have announced with great triumph that there has been an increase in adult education since 2010, which is a bit overshadowed by the fact that during the course of the 2013 Adult Education Act, there has been a change in the number of people counting into this statistics. By the way, this was a correct change, and with this change Hungary corresponds to Eurostat data, only on the same basis, if you look at the 2010 KSH publications, then you can see that on the same basis, not 3 but 8 percent of those who participated in adult education in 2009-2010. But by the way, both rates are bad. But what I would expect from the Secretary of State to answer is that it is excellent for us to say that if the government considers this to be a value, then over the past four years, when this data was calculated according to a common statistical methodology, why the proportion of adults who participated in adult education decreased from 7.1 per cent to 5.8 per cent based on the data of the HCSO. That's not important until this week? It wasn't important so far? Hasn't this ever been relevant to the government? Hasn't that mattered for the past four years? But there may be a reason for that. For example, I know one thing: that the public works programme was correctly linked to a training course, the content and implementation of which was bad, but the idea itself was good, and that the public works programme was run out, they forgot to replace it with another kind of similar training programme. But if there is strategic thinking, then it is also worth facing these facts. Turning to the specifics of the bill, I would like to highlight one more thing and I think it is very important because it is also a matter in which there is a clear consensus on both sides of the House on what we want to achieve. What are we trying to achieve? I'll start from here, with what we agree on. We agree that adult education does not only have labour market tasks. This is what the pro-government and opposition representatives have been talking about, and I can only confirm this, and I can only confirm that the schools of second chance, the kind of training that allows for the lack of basic education and the lack of basic qualifications, the acquisition and replacement of skills. I appreciate the government's commitment to labour market training. I would like to acknowledge this, it is important that the government considers this to be relevant, but I do miss that once we have touched the Adult Education Act, and if the Government is already making funds in this area clearly or hopefully, the Minister has also said so today, and we also see it in the justification of the bill, I think it is wrong to focus only on training in the labour market, which is of short-term use, and does not focus on replacing initial training. In the long term, this is also crucial for the labour market. All the data show that those who do not have adequate basic, primary or secondary education, so that they have general education skills, or have such qualifications, I add, but this is not combined with real basic skills, they are very disadvantaged in the labour market; and as we all agree, this disadvantage will not decrease but increase with the transformation of the labour market. Three specific cases concerning the bill itself; the first specific case concerns labour market forecasting. I can confirm what Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi said: all jokes are new to the new government and to the new Ministry of Responsibility. [[14.20]] But there were indeed precedents for this, there was already an employment information system in this country, and a track tracking system in adult education was launched as a more limited quality assurance and quality support system for adult education. I, of course, see and understand, I have to say that this is an absolute heart of my own, and I have also dealt with this area during my university career, that this proposal goes on to do so, and properly introduces a new type of approach, a kind of integrated approach. What is a problem is that again we learn very little about this. So, in addition to the need to provide data to this system, we will have very little information about this. I think it is good to have one, but it does not replace the employment and labour market information system, and it must be made clear. Or you can replace it, it could be a system where you manage adult education data and labour market data in a uniform way, and I can imagine that, and I will add a comment, it's a conceivable structure of the system, but we learn very little about it in reality. At the same time, there is a kind of fear, and this is also indicated by the fact that, on the basis of this data, the government intends to make decisions about what training it supports and what training it does not support. It is right for the government to take into account these types of decisions, supported by any advanced information technology, in determining labour market data, but I must indicate that, in itself, these decisions are subject to such a mechanically functioning system, which is likely to be a technical management error, and that these decisions should be taken in a much wider way. This one has and has all kinds of experience, regional and local councils, and I'm not even going into this right now, and maybe it would be long enough for us to deal with this area, and we know that there are precedents, positive and negative examples. It would be right for the government to think about the overall decision-making system in this area. Such a professional system is capable of supporting this, but to replace it, it is not suitable. And such a system will not work then, I must tell you, if you do not involve employers' representatives, do not involve local decision-makers, local authorities who know these worlds, know social needs and do not involve employees' representatives. Finally, a brief professional comment on satisfaction measurement. It is very important to have a measure of satisfaction. I understand the intention when it comes to measuring satisfaction, they want to decoupling it from the trainers and redirect it to an independent system, but at the same time, if they have become a ministry responsible for adult education, or have become, or should I say, they are also familiar with digital literacy information, and they know that in those of the disadvantaged groups we talked about earlier, who lack overall education or general education, this type of digital literacy is the lowest, and they are the least likely to participate in this type of survey and cooperation based on experience. In other words, I have the kind of fear that a significant number of trainees will fall out of this quality system, just those who are the most vulnerable in other respects. Again, I can say that I understand the intention here, and I consider it eligible in many ways, but obviously, if the instructor put the paper in his hand and it was mandatory to fill it out, he filled it out. I add, I understand that I may not know about it, but there may have been a chance that someone might have influenced the answers received in this way, and I understand that this is something the government would want to avoid, but on the other hand, it will not be good to have a large number of trainees left out of this system. There's got to be a way to do that. Finally, I would also like to mention that this regulation of training, which is a priority for the national economy, is of great concern and does not contain objective requirements in any way. We understand that it will be in the Government Decree, but again I can say that there is little confidence in the fact that this Government Decree will not favour certain business circles either as a beneficiary of training for companies or for those conducting training. We believe it is right that these grants are available in a clear way, in a normative way, with strong quality assurance, or with the government defining the objectives that it wants to achieve, but only in a transparent, public and fair system we can accept the allocation of such aid. Overall, we therefore believe that this proposal contains a number of good elements to consider, but we cannot support it in this form because we continue to feel that it is not timely and is based too much on the understanding that the government knows everything and knows everything better. From a professional point of view, we would consider it appropriate, although we fear that this will not be achieved if the government withdrew this proposal, considered it a discussion paper, and at a later time, when we know more and when more discussions have preceded it, it would present it to Parliament in order to have a broad professional and political consensus on this very important social issue. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-70	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to welcome the government's initiative, which is based on the recognition that adult education needs to be thoroughly reformed. I am also pleased to note that in order to develop successful adult education, we must first ask the right questions, and on this basis we can start with a quality assessment and a mapping of the labour market through real reform. Among the issues to be addressed are, among other things, what labour market forecasts the economy can provide for the short and long term, the ability of the school to meet the expectations of the farming bodies, what we think about career orientation and the home system of track tracking, the characteristics of the relationship between adult education and the labour market, and how the elements of vocational training that also serve eco-political thinking can be grasped. We all know that Hungary lacks a coordinated, comprehensive, economic prognosis system capable of presenting the professional and professional structure expected in the medium term. While the operators of the system have a professionally correct information base, they are not essentially organised. We therefore agree that the provision of data should be replaced and institutionalised and that state aid and part of the funding for vocational training should be used for this. Reform of the adult education institution system is also necessary because its operational practice does not always make participants interested in adapting with sufficient flexibility to market needs. As with the Hungarian education system, the adult education system is the subject of continuous experimentation, characterised by an endless series of reforms that are not consistent with individual learning and training cycles, often contradictory and non-consensual. The changes are regularly put into practice without prior social and professional consultation and were based on economic, pedagogical or sociological impact assessments. Due to the sudden shifts in vocational training and adult training in recent years, the institutions have virtually no longer been able to follow the changes in training and economic life, and this unpredictable system is directly at the expense of quality assurance. It is therefore time for a system-wide development that provides an appropriate strategy for the long term. I think it is very important to mention that the quality of employability is linked to the acquisition of basic competences and classroom requirements due to the interconnectedness of certain levels of the education system, so the fundamental shortcomings of students going to the technics and vocational schools create the knowledge deficit of the acquired professional certificate. Therefore, education of basic professions in the school system, where students receive stable, long-term professional knowledge, as well as rapid, market-oriented re-training and further training in adult education, can be forward-looking. [[14.30]] Future changes can contribute to Hungary's economic and social competitiveness and development. However, it should be borne in mind that real reforms are only made more difficult by often last-minute legislative proposals based on ideas from its representatives. The need for objective quality assurance in adult education is also demonstrated by the fact that in Hungary the professional final examination required for output type regulation and the diploma obtained often does not reflect actual knowledge, as the instructor does not have an interest in poor examination performance. Unfortunately, the certificate obtained is not always suitable for comparing the different knowledge bases. The system should be strongly moved towards independent examination by setting up a regional examination centre network linked to the organisation of the Education Office. The objective assessment and measurement of output power shall be ensured. Quality selection of adult education and quality assurance for adult education institutions can be the solution in the competition of companies engaged in chaotic, profit-oriented adult education activities. In the longer term, we need a system that allows everyone to participate in adult education. Unfortunately, the number of adults in Hungary is persistently low, as my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs said, as it does not reach 10 percent of the active age group. In addition to being overwhelmed, the low participation rate can be due, among other things, to the lack of clear information on job opportunities for potential applicants. In terms of adult education and the labour market, it is therefore necessary to operate a feedback system that effectively demonstrates the opportunities and risks of skills for young people and families, as well as to maximise the involvement and involvement of adult education institutions in regional development and the socio-economic presence in the region. Dear Parliament, The legislative amendment proposes a number of fundamental changes to the adult education system that can serve the reform of the training system, but there are also key points that are not necessarily forward-looking. The amendment introduces a number of new concepts within the system, such as the definition of scholarships, training loans and training of national importance, the concept of a labour market forecasting system, and a description of the obligation to notify and authorise training carried out by other legislation. The regulatory part on the activities of adult training experts will be transformed and the obligation to provide information on the basis of the notification will be strengthened. Satisfaction measurement is removed from the training function. The scope of reporting is modified and, most importantly, the administrative requirements related to the notification will be reduced, the written nature of the adult training and the obligation to issue a certificate will be removed in the case of training on the basis of the notification. I would definitely like to mention as a positive example the change in the corporate tax and dividend tax law, according to which companies can only account for the amount spent on training as a cost if they prove that the provider has complied with the reporting obligation. This and change in the measurement of satisfaction can help to increase objectivity and quality assurance in training. However, we are concerned about the amendment of the law to the definition of the training priorities for the national economy in the future. The Minister for Industry and the Minister for Adult Education will be entitled to the qualification of priority training after the opinion of the member of the Government responsible for the sector. We firmly state that it is essential to transform the adult education system into a form where adult education institutions, among other things, better meet labour market needs, but if, under the heading of priority training in the national economy, without real professional debate or involvement of independent representatives of the profession, or without research capable of carrying out a comprehensive examination of the labour market, they only arbitraryly define important and less important trainings, thereby reducing free labour market development on an ideological basis, as well as providing for the possibility of living in certain professions. It should therefore be pointed out that the training system serving the real labour market is precisely an independent trade union cooperation and a continuous flow of feedback from their direction, thus giving priority to the regional characteristics and needs of different regions. We also welcome the changes made to reduce the administrative burden. In the notification obligation, only one should be allowed instead of two procedures, and it will be easier to conclude an adult education contract only in adult education on the basis of a licence. This is indeed a reduction of the administrative burden. At the same time, in addition to the abbreviation of the bureaucratic maze, the reporting system and the organisation of the CRETA system applied to it can, on the contrary, increase the administrative burden within the institution and, in the case of notified adult education, the aim is not to verify the effectiveness and success of training, and therefore there is no justification for their labour market and quality assurance. We would consider it important that the possibility of enforcing eligibility for quality assurance should be at least accessible to the chambers of the sector in question. As a result of the changes, a number of training courses carried out as free market services to date will also be covered by the Adult Education Act, but professional quality control would be desirable. It would also be particularly useful to measure the effectiveness of notified training for the labour market forecasting system. Dear Parliament, Overall, the reform of adult education as an integral part of the VET concept is timely and cannot really wait. The organisation of effective labour market forecasting and quality management in adult education is essential, given that the corridor between vocational training and the labour market is currently insufficiently functioning. This results in training not being adequate for the needs of the economy. However, we would like to ask the government to make it possible to ensure the professional independence of adult education in its quality management efforts. However, it is important to point out that the adequacy of the elements of the strategy does not guarantee the success of the implementation. In the absence of a competent and professional-based feedback system, quality assurance and labour market forecasting may fail, allowing short-term demand trends or some kind of political will. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-07-71	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-07-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly to the comments of Gergely Arató and Balázs Ander, in one slice; it seems that I can now respond to the A-letters. Gergely Arató said that his intentions are absolutely eligible, but it is not timely; I have a debate here, because in my opinion it is very timely, because fine-tuning for adult education or stepwise transformation means precisely that this fine-tuning is taking place along a strategic approach, that stakeholders, adults, employers, employees, everyone, students, to say the least, recognize that they have an interest in a quality training course. I would like to connect here to the fact that this is a complex system, we also need personality development; in fact, we don't just transfer knowledge, but personality development also means that the student has self-knowledge, can decide independently what he needs, why modern knowledge is important to him. That's a long way to go. That's not gonna take two minutes. Ander Balázs was about leaving and the Finnish school system. Fortunately, I had the opportunity to study Finnish, Danish and Swedish folk college systems on the field as well, and these are really models of adult education that work well, and they will find something we can discuss about why education is important. But it has to be handled in a complex way. The drop in the data of which I did a little digging, well said Ander Balázs, it's about 12 percent, 11.8 percent, and by 2020, ten years ago, this is the commitment of the European Union to reduce it to less than 10 percent. [[14.40]] This failed factually, but it has to be seen that there has been a decrease, and in early school leaving, in a complex way, it has to be explained to people who are early school leavers that it is in their interest, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I want them to be involved in education as long as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-07-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group, in two minutes.
u2020-05-07-74	Dear House, I think it is important that, in the context of adult education, we also address the training of public workers and the training of detachments. I know from my own experience that a number of courses have started in recent years, but their success has not always been clear, thanks to the fact that the time spent on learning or teaching has often become shorter, so there was such a thing as perhaps not even an hour in education at the end, because the instructor did not really consider it important. The other is the basic competence training that we conducted at the same time, and we have delegated employees there ourselves. They really needed this basic competence training. I know a lot of people have been making jokes about it, and I've read all kinds of things, but they were wrong. The problem, however, was that labour centres gave us very short time to gather the people who really need it. So in half an hour and an hour, it is not possible to provide an adequate number, to properly assess or even agree with the employee that he should go to this training, but indeed analfabetism and functional analfabetism about which we need to talk are present in Hungary, and I believe that there are many of the public workers, or at least they are there, and their training is essential. I'm just saying this because he needs to be given much more care to make that course really valuable, because the government is spending the money on it, and he might not even be able to hit the target. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-75	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since several of our fellow Members have not indicated their intention to speak for two minutes, I now give the floor to Mr László György, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-07-76	Mr President, I'm pressing this device here. I'm not sure I use it well, but I managed to get their attention...
u2020-05-07-77	Yes, I saw, Mr. Secretary, that you've been flashed on several occasions, so now it's up to you.
u2020-05-07-78	Thank you very much. Thank you all very much for your constructive contributions, because I understood that this was a constructive professional debate that was worthy of the Parliament. I would like to respond on seven points. I regret that some of our fellow Members have already left, but we hope that their experts, who have prepared the materials for them, have themselves shown serious professional depth and will be able to look at the answers in seven points. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, May 7, 2020 127/2. Number Parliamentary Diary First of all, anyone who raises a lack of strategic thinking should look at the government's strategic material from 2010 or look at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology's economic development strategy, which will run until 2030 and was established in the summer of 2018. Part of this, a very important pillar of vocational training, is the 4.0 strategy, which they learned last fall. It also builds on the strategy of adult education. In this context, it is also very important to say that we have not consulted on the transformation of the Adult Education Act, but, we have involved all experts and all interest representatives. We set up a Vocational Education Innovation Council, there we discussed all the elements of the adult education strategy with experts. We have consulted sectoral skills councils, where once again professionals and market players are represented by sectors, as well as organisations bringing together adult education. So the direction and the details must be clear to everyone. From now on, I consider the timeliness of the strategy to be recognised, precisely because we want to catch up with the transformation of the VET strategy through the transformation of the adult education strategy. I understand that we have urgent tasks, and we are working on this, and that you will soon see that trainings will be published that, adapted to the need to comply with contact protocols, will provide an opportunity to complete the restructuring of the Hungarian economy in the form of e-learning training, and for those who may have lost their jobs during this period, we will provide restructuring trainings, which will increase their wages by up to 60-80 percent in new jobs and new jobs. The second important question that has been raised here is how the proportion of adults is fluctuating. Indeed, the statistical methodology shows that by increasing numbers of public employment in the primary labour market, the proportion of people participating in adult education according to statistics has decreased. The thing is, there really is a statistical methodological problem here. Not more than 8 percent of adults in Germany have come very close to this and 30 percent in the Scandinavian countries. This is because Germany has a very high rate of corporate internal training. This is very high for us, too, because our economic structure is closer to German, and the transformation that will be introduced in the data methodology and survey system of adult education will serve precisely the purpose of getting a real picture of how many people are taking part in training. We believe that if these public workers became workers in the primary labour market and they took part in corporate internal training and therefore did not appear in the statistics, it would be a minor problem if they had stayed in public employment or had become unemployed, but had been included in the labour market. That's the direction. The third important issue, which has been mentioned by several people, is the labour market forecasting system, what this will look like. Then I'd like to give you a few details about this. Let us not forget, however, that several people referred to the functioning of the labour market forecasting system before 2010 when there may have been some kind of forecasting system, but there was no work. We now want to establish a labour market forecasting system that is data-based. On the one hand, we are building on global megatrends, we are looking at what the great experts, the analytics houses in the world, who are dealing with where the world is going, what the new professions will be. The other is that there is a model of so-called sectoral relations, which shows how a country's sectoral structure and structure changes. From this dynamic we can draw conclusions on what the professions of the future will be, how the professions will be transformed in Hungary. The third is that from the NAV data, anonymously, we can determine where, in which professions the wage rises the fastest, or where there is great fluctuations. It is likely that there we will be able to observe gaps in trades, or we will be able to see gaps in trades, and any data-based analysis based on such big data, which requires creativity and innovation, will be based on the labour market forecasting system. Many have mentioned the need to involve local actors in the definition of labour market needs. This is what the qualitative part of the labour market forecasting system will be about, when we ask sectoral skills advice and local actors about what is needed for them, and on a data basis we will be able to confirm whether their needs are real or whether they are of some self-interest. The fourth is a measure of satisfaction, about which questions have been raised, doubts. I don't think that's an administrative burden. Although my university years are far away, at least I feel far away, but there were student opinions from instructors. Neither did the university instructor fill that out for us, or the university filled it out for us, but we had to fill it out as a trainee. We weren't obligated to, but whoever filled it out could have just taken the artifacts or the exam. Now we can give preference to those who, as assistant professors, fill in the satisfaction check. And it is very important, as Mr Gergely Arató pointed out, that we would like to minimise the anomaly, the possibility of abuse, that the trainers are filling out satisfaction measurement with the skilled. [[14.50]] It is much better to fill out the questionnaire on the measurement of satisfaction by the qualified ones themselves. But let us not forget that it was also mentioned here that digital literacy is lacking in certain social layers. I would like to come to point 6 to this point, that is why we are not facing such a big problem. Point 5 is training of major importance for the national economy, which many have called a rubber rule. It is not a rubber rule, but, in fact, an opportunity to include new trainings in the training system in a rapidly changing world, among the training courses that we want to support. This is also the issue of the Emergency Regulation, which will be read soon, which aims to be able to finance trainings that, either under the current Adult Education Act or as it will enter into force from 1 September, will not be able to quickly, immediately, to serve the Hungarians under the Adult Education Act. So in order to finance these trainings, we can show it, and we can highlight the training on the data base, in the areas of training defined under the labour market forecasting system, and we can ensure that they are authorised on an accelerated course in order to ensure that if someone has completed 80-90 percent of their training and has entered the labour market, which is a proven training, these aspects will make it possible for them to become a national priority training for any training or any training. So there's gonna be some serious, tough rules here. And once again, summa summarum, the aim is to be able to react quickly to changes in the labour market, because we see that the labour market is changing very, very quickly, and we do not have flexible systems for this, and we have not had adequate, flexible systems for this in recent decades. Point 6 concerns disadvantaged municipalities. They do not like to call themselves that, but there are settlements in Hungary today that are far from opportunities for work and further education. There are settlements like this all over the world. We have created the program for Hungary. And if you have mentioned my PhD, Mr Ander Balázs, thank you very much for reading my PhD dissertation entitled "Some Economic Policy Consequences of Social Catch-up." [[Defiance.]] I am here and I took this invitation to participate in the work of the government because it is possible to implement such programmes, you might say, in addition to the economic strategy. But this is also an important economic strategy issue. We started this program in the 35 most disadvantaged settlements in September 2019, now 900 seventh grade primary school children are involved and 200 university mentors are involved. The task, the goal, is that these children can get the experience that children naturally acquire, who grow up in an environment with a richer or different stimuli, in an urban, small-town environment. In my PhD research, I have seen in these small settlements that the vast majority of these children concerned do not leave the border until they are 14 years old, and he does not have the experiences that could help him not to crumble later, so that there are experiences that make him want to learn. We want to show them life, and it seems to work. The children on a scale of one to 10 we entrusted their mentors with the measure of satisfaction, and the mentors said that on a scale of 10 they valued the experience of showing them the dormitory in Debrecen, showing them the airport in Nyíregyháza, taking part in airplane simulations, being on factory visits, and accompanying them there. We want these mentors to stay with them after primary school in high school, because the other ordeal, other than having experiences such as children growing up in urban environments, is also a nice experience, but they are not necessarily directed towards the labour market, and the other is that social change is a serious ordeal for them after 14 years of age, but if they have a mentor, then it is likely that the drop rate will also fall to a very large extent among these children. Now there are mentors from four universities participating in this program, but two more universities joined and we expand that every child in the country who needs a big brother can have a big brother. By the way, we're switching to remote mentoring because of the emergency. It is important for me to say this because we have had the surprising experience that 40 children from 900 mentored children are now children from the seventh grade in the most disadvantaged areas and schools with no smart tools. That means the others do. So 95 percent have smart devices, and less than 5 percent have to be able to participate in distance education and tele mentoring in schools that are otherwise open. Now we're working on making sure these 40 kids have the right tools. This also means that digital illiteracy is slowly being outgrown by Hungarian society. We're working on making this as fast as possible. There's one more point that leads a little further. Ander Balázs mentioned numbers. Congressman, I'd like to put it this way that you think the glass might be half empty and I think it's half full. We are on our way to a direction that we have not seen in the past ten years. This seems to have increased the number of people in severe material deprivation in Hungary before 2010 and dropped from 21,6 per cent to 10.1 per cent after 2010. We are at the forefront of this, and we have shown the second fastest decline in the European Union. This is Eurostat statistics. You mentioned WEF statistics, World Economic Forum statistics. According to the World Economic Forum, growth from 74 emerging countries is the second most inclusive, and it is only the second because we have high public debt, which has decreased by 14 percentage points in the last ten years. Because of an inheritance, we are only the second most inclusive because of a bad inheritance. In other words, the benefits of economic growth benefit a wide range of society. It also refers to the calculation of Branko Milanović, the former World Bank's leading economist, who showed that if we put up from the poorest to the richest of Hungarian society and Hungarians from 1 to 100, the income of the poor fell by 20% between 2008 and 2010; between 2013 and 2015, when the so-called unorthodox economic policy that they were criticizing started to work, and today they are setting an example for others, the income of the lower 30 percent in Hungary increased by 60-80 percent. Fourth, again, according to Eurostat statistics, the proportion of people at risk of poverty fell below the EU average for the first time after two decades in the last year. The fifth and final point is that there are three such dimensions in the poverty dimension, the risk of poverty and social exclusion is one, the other is income poverty, the third is serious material deprivation in Hungary, from 400,000 in 2010 to 100,000 now. We cannot be satisfied because we want no poor person to be in Hungary, but I think that the directions are in order. Thank you very much for your support for the reform of the Adult Education Act. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-79	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-05-07-80	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I feel that a very important and forward-looking debate could unfold, and I am trying to oil this up a little bit. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to have the State Secretary responsible for the economic strategy, who is a State Secretary who came not from a political perspective, but from a dominant professional perspective, so we can say that we can have an economic policy debate with a professional rather than a politician. And I also welcome the presence of Members who appear to be interested in these issues. I'd like to approach this from a little further away. I am very pleased that there are also concepts here such as global megatrends, monitoring them, the restructuring of the Hungarian economy, competitiveness, and so on. [[15.00]] In this connection, I would like to ask questions to Mr Secretary of State, confident that, seeing that he is happy to participate in the debate, Mr Secretary of State, we may receive some information on how much the government is willing to take global megatrends into account and perhaps re-evaluate, let us say, the strategy of the last ten years, depending on the results. Now that we consider this debate to be timely, Mr Arató had a suggestion that she replied in her speech as a speaker, which is not timely, and that we consider it to be absolutely timely. This is a huge, burning issue, regardless of the terrible situation that has now arisen, as a result of a pandemic, we are facing an economic crisis that is now inaccessible and long. In which I think we can agree that no one really sees how deep it will be and what its effects will be. Obviously, we are confident that this will be manageable in some way in the medium term. So we definitely consider it timely. The bill itself, and this is what the congresswoman has referred to, we agree with the other opposition groups that it is not from the devil, as Balázs Ander said, and we can even say that it is positive. So in terms of the directions set out, it is positive, it is eligible, and I do not even rule out that the LMP faction will vote in favour of it, while it has been said in several speeches that we obviously have concerns, and based on the experience of the past years, we have legitimate concerns that these things will slip away in terms of detail regulations, but we have confidence. Overall, if we look at what is being formulated in the bill, in the reasoning, and what objectives have been set by my fellow Members at the level of explanation, I say that so far we can say that we agree, together with the fact that we obviously have concerns in terms of detail, but that is not the most important one. I was also very pleased to hear Mr Vinnai's speech. I do not agree with my fellow Members that the government has no strategic direction, no strategy. I think there is, but clearly it's bad. So I am convinced that this strategy is very bad and has caused terrible damage to the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society. So I would like to ask you this: in this regard, there may be an imminent change or consideration of the situation. Because if we are talking about these things, that we can prepare for economic policy trends, that we can learn from mistakes so far, or that the government can learn from mistakes so far, obviously education plays a key role in this, adapting to the situation in the labour market, including the structure of adult education, plays a key role. So the question is that the government can reach a fundamental and correct assessment of the situation. Can you re-evaluate, say, the past decades or just, if you look at your own area of responsibility, the results of the last decade's economic policy? And obviously it doesn't apply to the Secretary of State, because he has been in this office since May 2018, so obviously he, as a professional, can appreciate the past ten years of his government's performance. So it is very important that the government is willing and able to assess the situation properly. Then he was able to take into account, let's say, megatrends, given the prospects and what they had done wrong so far, what had the effect of doing so, and to make the correct corrections? Now, this is very important, and I'd like to ask you this. Here, Congressman Vinnai had some interesting ideas, for example, I would just like to take out one: sustainable growth. I do not know, I will have the opportunity to ask Congressman Vinnai what sustainable growth means. Because in an environment where social, economic and environmental spheres can be interpreted together, and we know very well that we are already overusing the natural environment, natural resources, and we can see the drastic consequences of over-intruding the economy into the natural sphere, right, we are in the middle of a pandemic, and I think that the first and most important step is to get to the point where such concepts are properly appreciated as sustainable growth. The growth drive, isn't it, the GDP indicator, as a fetish of some kind, that can ensure the future of the Hungarian nation? Congressman Ander Balázs has already mentioned this. So, obviously, as Secretary of State, as a member of the government, he was in fact the political weight and edge of his expo, we can say that he started with a victory report. In terms of Hungarian economic policy, labour market processes, we have received a very serious victory report, so let me correct this as the leader and member of an opposition group. We can see that, regardless of the pandemic and whether we are at the door of the unparalleled economic crisis, we can see that the strategy implemented by the government in stone-hard and iron-handed terms has resulted in a social tragedy. And it is difficult to say how long, how and in what way this fundamentally flawed economic policy will be able to correct its extremely serious social effects in the long term, and how long and in what way it will be possible to do so. The economic policy, so to make it very simple, obviously, does not allow us to engage in more serious professional debates, but, in very simple terms, it was about trying to build some kind of liberal principles, some sort of economic policy, on a vulnerable Hungarian labour force, working for cheap wages deprived of its rights. This has had an effect that the exodus has become shocking, so it is quite amazing to see such apocalyptic processes, how many hundreds of thousands of people were forced to leave this country. And we can also say that within the country, according to territorial differences, what kind of emigration was and what social effects this process had. So if we are talking about territorial cohesion, an important goal and the increase in territorial differences, then we can see that this economic policy has greatly increased territorial differences and has strengthened crisis areas or created a new crisis area. So overall, if we decoupling ourselves from what is obviously only theoretically possible from the current crisis, this is in itself a factor that I think a responsible government must then be re-evaluated and faced with the effects of this later, after ten years of governance. But on the other hand, let us see the effects of this global crisis. And then there is a very important factor in this proposal, the construction and integration of the labour market forecasting system. It has been said, in the justification and at the level of declarations, how important it is to perceive these labour market processes, so that, as much as possible, if we talk about the system of adult education now, the system can be adapted to the expected supply and demand and labour market challenges and, accordingly, this system looks forward to the challenges with the greatest possible flexibility. At the same time, it is very important here that the economic policy of a government determines the development of labour market challenges themselves; on the one hand, the assessment of the situation: how it sees and embraces the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century, the environment in which we must work, and the response that it intends to give, are obviously the economic policy it intends to pursue within its scope. It is a very important political decision, an economic policy decision, that I want to pursue this economic strategy and economic policy within the options, and accordingly, as far as possible, I will intervene in the processes, and in this way I will, of course, monitor trends, monitor trends, collect data and information, and shape the labour market forecasting system itself. My questions are mainly about what we can expect from the government here, about these global megatrends, about the direction in which economic policy is moving, about what they show us in the 21st century. Company challenges, willing to finally see the government. Because apparently he hasn't wanted to deal with it in the last ten years. And this is where it has been said from many of my fellow Members how important it is that, in the future, it should be based on the educated head of man, the well-trained workforce, human capital. This can give the nation a future, but what we have seen at the level of action from the government over the past period is contrary in all respects. And unfortunately, it is still against that, because for now, as long as we look at what proposals are made before the Parliament, what investments the government wants to start or run, we do not yet see even its tracks that the government is actually willing to make some kind of change of vision or some kind of change of structure. This is where several of my fellow Members spoke about the importance of territorial differences. The importance of adult education and vocational training systems in achieving territorial cohesion, so that territorial differences can be reduced and that we can do something about crisis regions, crisis regions that are spreading, and it can be said that there is no longer such an East-West or North-South definition, if we look at territorial processes, but also areas that were thus still in the middlefield or the lower middlefield in the area of regime change, they are also approaching the falling regions. Well, this is, let's say, quite a few regions of South Transdanubia, there is no need to say the situation of South Somogy or the county of Baranya, that these areas have actually fallen into crisis areas, and there has been such a degree of emigration that the labour market in these areas is practically damaged. Now we can talk about the South Somogy part here, we can talk about the Ormany, which obviously implies a very, very serious problem system and a challenging system, but let's just say, let's talk about the largest city in Transdanubia, Pécs, which was not one of the cities in bad condition. We can say that, in terms of its region as a big city, overall, it is still in an economic or economical advantage, but in practice, labour market processes, regardless of the current crisis, cannot be dealt with in any way with by conventional instruments. [[15.10]] Therefore, because of this economic policy, which we believe the government has presented over the course of ten years, emigration has become so shocking that by promoting traditional investment it is not possible to reverse economic trends, simply because of labour market problems: the labour market is damaged, there is no labour force on the ground. And we are talking about a very important thing: flexibility, adaptation, adult education, but here we are now faced with a whole range of tasks if we say that we want to create supply in the labour market, so we want to get to the point where investment promotion meets the labour market supply. Training is a very important element of it, however, it is a very important element of adult education, but it is necessary to have a comprehensive policy in which, for example, local authorities must be partners, because it is simply necessary to attract back the forced labour force, whether within a country or abroad. Are these the issues the government is facing? Is there anything to do with this, that territorial differences have indeed increased and the labour market has been damaged in so many ways in Hungary that it is impossible to approach this from the direction of training itself, or that the right solution cannot be found? And we can see how important those involved in this regard are to the municipalities, the cities, as partners of the government; I cannot say too much good in any way. In this regard, too, I would very much like to see a positive vision drawn up for us by the Secretary of State. One more thing: we are talking about global trends, megatrends, the importance of investing in human capital. Let's put it next to what the government is doing in the education system, or even in higher education, mentioned this sphere, Mr. Secretary of State. In recent times, we can say that it is as if a campaign has been launched against academic life and higher education by the government, whether we are thinking about destroying the Academy's network of institutions with axe, or what it has done with higher education, and what it has done with those key actors, academics, researchers, professionals, on whom it is possible to implement any future economic policy and social policy. Today, Minister of State, in Hungary, a university assistant with a scientific degree earns less than a charger. I believe that, as long as this is the case, there is no way to take seriously the government's economic policy or social policy of a type that takes seriously the importance of investing in human capital. In this respect, would you expect some kind of strategic change of direction from the government in terms of social policy and economic policy? Your ministry of all things is now slowly coming to an all-powerful place. We can see that they are preparing for measures that would take enormous resources away from universities. We know that they want to draw funding from the university in billions of forints, and it is essential to draw funds for its operation, for example, according to press reports, they will withdraw HUF 3.5 billion from the University of Pécs. This makes it virtually impossible for the university to manage this, making it impossible for the university to fulfil the function that I believe a university must fulfil, so as the centre of local economic and social life, as a kind of city in the city. What can you tell us about this, Mr. Secretary? I really hope you'll be able to say something encouraging. It is very rarely possible to do so, and I am throwing so many questions at the Secretary of State, on the one hand, because of his function, it is a specialist in charge of an economic strategy, a secretary of state, in case we are in such an exceptional situation that we can get answers. On the other hand, we see that when, in the midst of such a terrible epidemic, we are faced with an extremely deep, inaccessible economic crisis and we should be talking about fundamental labour market problems and crisis situations, your minister, your boss, is at the same time responsible for economic protection measures, seeing the effects of how many tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs, and on the other hand we read from him the other day that we need a Formula One pilot within five years. So I think this is an example taken away, this in itself is scary in terms of the prospects for us in terms of government policy. That is why I am very confident that the Secretary of State will report that they acknowledge the failure of their policies to date, that they see the effects of this serious tragedy, and now, after ten years of enlightenment, they are preparing with renewed force for a fundamental shift in economic policy and social policy, finally taking into account that the natural environment cannot be excluded from this. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-07-82	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I was pressing a button at an earlier stage of the debate before the Secretary of State responded, so I would like to make it very short and return to the substance of the bill before us, compared to the leader of the group before me, in deep agreement with the points on which the Group leader has just spoken on behalf of the LMP. I would like to continue the line of thought that has been carried out by Mr Szászfalvi, Member of the Council of Vinnai and Mr Ander, namely that the system of adult education and vocational training is indeed a segment of education with an outstanding national strategy, especially for the regions that are falling apart. After all, I believe that Congressman Szászfalvi said that the role of self-knowledge will be appreciated by the 21st century. In the century. I would like to add a little to that, and in a holistic way, I would think that basically we need to think about the role of education, and one of the most important parts of that which we are discussing here is adult education. I can only imagine the different segments of education in a human-centred and harmonious unit, ceterum censeo, which is why I find it extremely unfortunate that there is no Ministry of Education that Jobbik has been demanding for a very long time, from kindergarten to university and up to adult education, in a coherent system to address the challenge of the 21st century. As the Secretary of State rightly said, he is waiting for us, and that is that there is no forecasting system, I must say, which could follow the drastic and incredibly rapid change in the labour market. So I think that adult education is also important in the light of the principle of lifelong learning, because we will see within seconds that the changes that are now shaking down our entire economic system after the coronal virus, and we are denying that we, in the name of the People's Party Jobbik, want to strengthen certain parts of this process, because we have long said the dangers of such production chains to China, and that the less development of local producers and small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary was a life-threatening economic strategy, as the Group leader has said before me, from this government as well. So I think that we need very important reactions right now, and this can only be imagined in a holistic and coordinated system where adult education is a kind of... The Folk College system has already been mentioned, and the Folk College system would serve precisely to acquire the skills and knowledge that are specifically needed in those regions in small regions, building on the traditions of local regions. I know the German folk college system better, although I also know the Scandinavian, and it is not by chance that, although it is true that German indicators are similar to Hungarians because of company training, the German folk college system is much more embedded in the given regions. So, indeed, there are local traditions, and they can pass on to interested people in adult education, which can then be very useful in the local regions in the world of work. So let's face it, then, that in the whole system of education, a modernisation should be carried out within the framework of which adult education should then be modernised. Let me give you one example taken from Denmark, this so-called nachschule: those over the age of 18 have a boarding school system of one year, for those who would otherwise be lost, because they do not yet know what direction to turn the wheels of their fate. And even this is worth it for the maintenance state, because practically these people are provided with life advice in a one-year boarding school, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they provide career advice so that they can become practically very useful members of society. So I would very much like to put the direction in strategic thinking that local communities and local authorities must be involved in further training. [[15.20]] After all, in this area, in terms of adult education and non-school education, we also need to develop completely new forms and content sometimes in order to respond in a suitable way to this rapidly changing environment. I also say this a little in the context of the need to strengthen the small regional vocational training system in this context, with the closure of small-scale schools, so that we can really respond to these very important challenges. Thank you, that's all I wanted to add to the line of thought. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-84	Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for speaking to us on the way here and thus giving us a way to respond to his response, even though, of course, I admit that this seminarial parliamentary meeting, while I am enjoying it in an extraordinary way, does not necessarily bring such joy to those who are waiting for a later agenda. But it is an important issue, and it is really important that we talk about some professional aspects in this matter, and I would also like to say two such professional aspects. One of the professional aspects is that I understand what you are saying, Mr Secretary, that you have discussed different things with different people, we do not know what and with what result, one thing is certain about this concrete bill in the world. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State says that we should turn to the 2010 government strategy. Ten years have passed since then, and, let's say, in the field of vocational training, we have had four changes in direction, while this is one of the very bordering areas with the world of adult education. Once again, I can say that it would be justified and fair to draw up a new adult education strategy, in which, moreover, I agree with Mr Brenner Koloman that it is not necessarily a good solution when education is cut in half, but it must extend across these types of borders. I have to add, even for the sake of fairness, that during this earlier period, there has been constant government uncertainty about which ministry of adult education, because it needs to be integrated and separate from what. It is certain that, while it is impossible to deal with adult education without economic impact, it cannot be dealt with without other areas of education and social impacts, and that is not a reassuring response, Mr Secretary of State, in the current evaluation of the current trainings, that it will be different for the young generation. That's true, but those who are in this system today are not part of this young generation alone.
u2020-05-07-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I will give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, Member of the Jobbik Group, in the next round of speeches.
u2020-05-07-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to fall into the sin of speaking, and I will also consider the others here, but the debate is indeed very interesting, and that would be the least that one of us is interested in this, and the other component is that it is very important, perhaps from a social point of view, that the bill on which we are discussing here is bordering on one of the most important issues. I commend the Secretary of State for his scientific work, and I also commend him on his willingness to answer our questions on the way here, and not to play what is so common among pro-government ministers or ministers that he will give some kind of answer in the national closing. This is certainly respectable; only with the great praises here, we should not proceed like Dirty Fred, whom he praised, who could see himself, so be gentle, my fellow members of the government, because in Mr Secretary of State we are talking about a very, very prepared, well-meaning secretary of state. Mr. Secretary of State says that 900 children are currently under the regime that he has, by the way, praised with a full foundation here in the heavens. Let us be allowed to say, however, that, if we look at the mere number here, this is not enough for the problems this country is facing, this nation will be confronted with in the coming decades. We don't know at all what the Singaporen parallels mean when it comes to, let's say, domestic gypsies have a lot of soul. In 2011, at the census, 315 thousand people claimed to be, and then, if we look at the latest surveys, the University of Debrecen János Pénzés said that we are talking about a population of 900 thousand. I bring this here because if someone is concerned with the issue of adult education, this is the social group, because here I have already outlined that 70-80 percent of the adult Gypsy population, according to the 2010 data, has only a basic school education. This country simply cannot afford the luxury of carrying such a layer of society on its shoulders. So they should be drawn in, integrated into the whole national economy. This, however, in addition to the figures we have seen here, even if this programme, as outlined by the Secretary of State, is a brilliant initiative, will not work. After all, I will say another number: Attila Papp Z. We know exactly that already in 2015 there were 300 ghetto schools in Hungary where Gypsy students became the majority, and if the social problems that we are talking about here in connection with this bill are precisely those institutions. I can encourage Mr Secretary of State that, if there are such initiatives, he should not be satisfied with the fact that this now covers 900 children, and then it can be said here in the seat of the pro-government secretary of state that the glass is half full, and the opposition says that it is half empty. It's not half empty, it's more, it's more empty. It should be linked, because I believe that the existence of this society really depends on it, and we can also say that it is a matter of national strategic importance when we talk about the success of integration. If this does not succeed, then, fellow Members, this country is simply gone. If you look at the demographic trends, we'll be in this country by the middle of the century, say, 7.5 million. If, from the 7.5 million people, beyond what kind of wreckage social processes are still taking place, 2.5 million will be the number of souls of the gypsy that would carry on the current integration indicators, then our fate will simply be sealed, and Béla Hell will be right, who wrote that the support and operation of this country, which has been the majority since the change of regime, would be on the shoulders of the gypsy, but will also need state transfers. The fact that the secretary of state knows exactly what I am talking about from this double looped devilic trap is what he wrote in his PhD paper we can all get out together, Hungarians, Gypsies, all in this country, and the path of destruction of the wrecked society, which has also been revealed in the words of my fellow Member, Lóránt Keresztes, and there on South Transdanubia, in regions of South Somogy, which are pushed to its periphery, and which are contagionally disadvantaged, and in South Baranya, in the Ormania, we can experience every day, so that this should change, we should be linked to these things, because it will be able to refer to partial results here, but much good will not come out. My fellow Member from Szászfalvi mentioned something very, very important, and this is personality development and personality formation within the framework of these trainings. As regards the Singapore model, Mr. Secretary of State wrote that there were at least two things there that I now remember, which could really advance the affairs of the Malay minority there, the 13,4 percent Malay minority, which in many respects is related to the Hungarian Roma, which was that they required responsibility in these programmes and expected cooperation. I believe that these are two cardinal things that in many cases, let us say, did not work here in relation to adult education in Hungary. [[15.30]] They have been on the government for ten years now, honourable MPs and ladies, let me refer here to the Farkas Flórian, well,.. Travel to the world of work, but rather to something leading to the world of theft, which together drinks the money of Hungarian and Gypsy in this country. [[Miklós Soltész: Racist sentences sound!]] What? ! My fellow Member! It's real. Racism is, if I can rely on the funds for integration and then here I can rely on SAO reports to be smeared, smoked, and spent on things that are not in the interest of the communities living here. Well, if it's racist, that's it. It is not that anyone dares to point out that there were not only mistakes, but also very serious sins, let us say, on these issues here in Hungary. When I said at the beginning of my speech that we had serious reservations about the bill or our concerns about it, that's exactly what they were about. So if the story here is that, let's say, they want to rearrange the adult education market in such a way that some buddies benefit from it, and not the whole society, then we'll have a duty to say it again. If this is about these money that needs to be spent on this question, because otherwise this country is gonna be screwed up, and they're gonna have to deal with it through these friendly companies, then we're gonna let you know because it's our duty. It's the duty of all of us in this country. I believe that if racism is mentioned here, I will also say to my fellow Member that he is free to read the Secretary of State's PhD argument, then he will realize that what I am talking about is not racism at all, but the highest level of responsibility for what will happen to this country and its people in the coming decades. But I'm happy to talk about this, by the way. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi intervenes.]] Just not for long... But the subject, I think, deserves the attention to talk about it for a long time, but if we don't talk about it, then I can offer you to actually take out that paper, read it, accept it, and adjust your policy accordingly. Because the thing is, in 1967, to stay at level 67, let's say, per capita GDP in Singapore. [[For signal:]] Don't sigh. The thing is, he moved around about $600 a year. This increased to over $60,000 in 2011, so that it was a multicultural society, religiously, linguistically and in every respect, a post-colored society. And that's actually what they knew about XX. The 21st century C.E. Eject into a century there in Singapore. The question is how. The answer is there, Mr. Secretary of State's excellent paper outlined this, which should be copied here in Hungary. The educational indicators of the 13,4 percent Malaysian minority in the 1980s were broadly the same as those of Hungary in 2010, which we refer to Gypsy. Thus, the ratio of Malays with higher education was less than 1 percent, and the proportion of those with primary education was about 70-80 percent. In 20-25 years, this whole thing has been reversed, and by now about 13 percent of the Malay minority from a terrible disadvantage there have a college and university degree. The proportion of those with only primary education was also pushed down to 30 percent. Now, please, this is how we can move forward in the value chain, the global value chains of global corporations and multinational companies, which, if we do not succeed here in Hungary, will only escalate the social problems that we encounter daily, if we are willing to step out of the ivory tower and look out from, say, the pink or orange glass dome and experience the great Hungarian reality. That's the only way it's gonna work if we can move forward on these value chains. But if we stay at the bottom of this, v, letter-shaped value chain, in the middle of it, then it remains that the Hungarian worker, the Hungarian worker, is being degraded into a disposable biorobot, the social processes of which we have seen well in recent years. Just like bringing here what they did to the labour code, bringing here that Viktor Orbán was trying to sell Hungary to Arab investors in Riyadh by selling how cheap the labour force is compared to his degree and how flexible the labour code is. Now, please, this is the colonial model, and we say no to the colonial model. If this bill, which has been brought before us, is well intended to be used in real life, then perhaps this colonial model will be behind Hungarian society, and from this colonial model a social peace and consensus can be created, which otherwise has a terrible need in this country. Fellow Members! Once again, the responsibility is yours, our concerns have been raised. If all of this comes out of the fact that the funds we're going to be spending in this area are to be rolled out, channeled to our friends, there will be serious problems, and the problems we're facing will not be solved. If, where appropriate, the authority that we will give you with our vote in favour of adopting this bill, so if this mandate is used in an appropriate way, then perhaps the problems that I have talked about here, not on a racist basis, my honourable fellow Member, but on the basis of reality, would become more manageable. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-07-87	Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2020-05-07-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to reflect on what has been said in a few thoughts. I think that my fellow Member Ander and I agree on a great deal of diagnosis, but Mr Secretary of State, very ground-raised, thank you very much. [[Ander Balázs: Yes! Just make sure he doesn't get hurt.]] But I would like to ask that what you have said specifically, Mr. Secretary, also take into account, please. Here, for a long time, in his second speech, in which he responded to the opposition and its representatives in general, he gave concrete facts. So that, over the last ten years, this supposedly bad economic strategy, which my fellow Christian Member has spoken about, has made it possible to have positive facts and results today. No one said it was perfect, no one said we were at the end of the road, no one said we had to do nothing now, but just sit back and hang our feet. However, if, since 1990, the economic strategy of the current government had been the same since the great shock of the change of regime at that time, it would have been the same in terms of the labour market, employment policy or training structures, then today we might be discussing or discussing something quite different here. This is a ten-year process, as the Secretary of State has just explained, of the group of about 400 thousand people most at risk, we are now at 100 to 150 thousand. This does not mean that this is all right, it does not mean that we have achieved everything, but it means that we are going in the right direction, and these instruments must be further strengthened to achieve the goals that we all want. I'm going to keep going because I can't tell you one thing right now. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-07-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to abuse anyone's time either, but I think that we are talking about issues that determine the future of the nation, and it is our duty to conduct these debates here. And the bill concerning the adult education system may not be the right or the most appropriate item on the agenda, along which the debate on these economic strategy issues, to say the least, must be held, but then, fellow Members, tell me when. I didn't say it as a joke, I am glad that there is a secretary of state who spoke to the debate not on a political basis, but on a professional basis, a man who is not a politician, but a specialist, and we finally have the opportunity to talk about the strategic issues of the Hungarian economy here in plenary. [[15.40]] By the way, I was shocked by the speech made by Congressman Szászfalvi. I know that you are committed to developing rural areas, and that you are a Member of Parliament in an area that is one of the poorest in the country, that is quite clear. I am sure you have never heard a positive expression of the economic policy and social policy of the pre-2010 Balliberal Government, but what is happening in this country over the past ten years cannot be said to be a series of positive steps. I would therefore like to ask you, if you are impatient now, I feel that it is up to all of us to discuss these issues, to say when it is possible not to have a debate on these issues that determine the future of all of us and of the nation, and, if possible, within the framework of policy. Thank you.
u2020-05-07-91	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-07-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Vinnai, has been talking about processes here, and also my fellow Member, Mr Szászfalvi, about processes that have a positive impact and are showing an improved trend. Then let me just say with regard to drop-out: this was 10.8 per cent in 2010, now 12,4 per cent, as opposed to the trend in the European Union, which seemed to have been 15.7 per cent in 2010, and there is indeed such a downward trend, because it is now 10.2 per cent. If there's something very important, it's a reduction. That is why I congratulated the programme on which the Secretary of State has reported here, but if we perceive the size of the problem, how many masses should be raised and integrated, then we must see that this is a drop in the glass. I wasn't halfway through. Understand, my honourable fellow Member, that you do not speak on the basis of some kind of racist spirit here, but because you fear for this country, and we find that what is happening in this respect is not enough. [[For signal:]] I can't see that far, I'm not an eagle. You'll press a button and you'll speak up, you'll tell me what you want to express, what you want to say. I've done my part here. I believe that these are the things that we really need to focus on in connection with such a debate. And let no one snort here because we dare to talk about it, and let us also make criticism out of opposition benches. I made it clear from the beginning that we consider this bill to be supportive, in addition to having concerns, but don't make it look like we're coming in here, applauding one, pressing the yes button, and going home as opposition representatives. We are talking about the country, the most important issue of the nation, let us talk about it. Thank you.
u2020-05-07-93	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Szászfalvi has applied, but I cannot give you the floor in a two-minute time frame, Congressman, the house rules do not allow it. If you want to speak in a normal time frame, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-07-94	I apologize, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity, all the more so, because I am also on the next agenda, so we also have our own time... But I also consider this debate, this discussion, to be very important. I suggest that you and Secretary of State set a date or set a date, and this can be done naturally. The joke aside, I have not yet been able to share one of my previous thoughts, if my fellow Members of the opposition are curious about this, I would like to say it. Here we talked about a lot of things, we talked about a lot of things, training programs, adult training programs, Krisztina Hohn mentioned the program for public employment. I note that in the last thirty years, many of these would have been needed, and when we started it, we were attacked by the liberal press, and cynically asked us how we imagined it. It's just a parentheses note. The next thing I wanted to add to all this is that there is simply no way around it, and this must be said frankly, and we must say that there is no way to avoid and circumvent personal responsibility in any such dispute. So we can argue about a lot here in the country's most beautiful house, workplace, in many ways, with the involvement of various interest representatives, start all kinds of projects and EU programmes and domestic funding programmes, but if we cannot motivate people... because we cannot oblige people, we cannot involve people in a mandatory way. I am not familiar with the example that my fellow Member, Mr Ander, has given in Singapore. I think you know him very well, and you will apply him to how to encourage him to cooperate, if I remember correctly, he said so, but you cannot oblige people. What can the state do? What is the responsibility of society? That's what we need to do, I think we need to look at it here, and what tools we can use, if not obligate, but motivate, provide opportunities. I think that we should work together on this and put together what we can do, because this is the most difficult issue in this respect with regard to the problem or areas affected. I can't even tell you that there are few state assets. It may be possible to make better, more effective use of these public instruments, so they are not perfect, and I accept that, but there is much more to be said about the personal responsibility side, much more particularly, much more unitedly by opposition and government parties, parties of government and opposition, because it is the only way to achieve this. So I think that we could make a qualitative step forward here, that extending and extending personal responsibility, individual will and related state aid, tools and opportunities could bring about a breakthrough on this front. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if someone else would like to take the floor on the agenda. I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. [[László György reporting.]] I give the floor to Mr László György, the rapporteur of the agenda, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-05-07-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm still learning the genre, you can see that, I applied, but I got the floor. First of all, I don't know how he ever got such a big advertisement for a doctoral dissertation in Parliament. [[Defiance.]] but thank you very much, and I would just like to add that the doctoral dissertation can be downloaded and read at www.doktori.hu. [[For the intervention of Ander Balázs:]] Congressman Ander Balázs has read it. On the other hand, I think that this parliamentary genre is an emotional genre, and I have feelings, too, but now I'm just gonna let one emotion wander away, and this is patriotism, and the other emotions I've sensed here, I'm gonna try not to reflect. Very briefly then, based on the facts: economic damage was mentioned. Between 2013 and 2019, in seven years, Hungarian economic growth in the European Union is in the top five, the fourth in particular fastest and 2 percentage points faster than the EU growth rate. Real wage growth is also in the top 5, real wages have increased more than 1.5 times in Hungary, and we are also top 5 in the growth of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage in the European Union. We were able to achieve this because not only our economic policy after 2018 but also our post-2010 economic policy was based on the correct interpretation of global megatrends, namely that Hungary had by then become a small open economy, due to the failed economic policy measures of the nineties, in a very significant part, and we had to take into account that the 600 most powerful companies in the world account for 80 percent of world exports. They are called global value chains, and we had to establish some kind of relationship with these businesses. This has led to the creation of high-tech capacities in Hungary over the last ten years, which has led Hungary to have the second highest-tech industry in the world, according to IMF statistics, i.e. the International Monetary Fund statistics. Denmark is first, then Hungary comes, and then Germany comes. Our task now is to attach those Hungarian-owned micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to these value chains so that we can move up these value chains as far as possible. So our economic strategy is based on the interpretation of global megatrends, our economic growth was in the top 5, the real wage growth was in the top 5 in the last seven years in the European Union. And all of this has been done in a sustainable way, which has never happened before 2010. Sustainability is understood in a financial, economic, social and environmental sense. [[15.50]] The budget has been put in order, and since 2013 there has been a lack of budget within the Maastricht convergence criterion. As a result, government debt decreased by 14 percent. We now have 12 percentage points of public debt below the EU average and 17 percentage points below the euro area. The external balance has been settled, our gross external debt has competed with Sierra Leone in 2007-2008, and we were only the seventh of the 200 countries in the world to take six positions from the Guinness record. This 120 per cent gross government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased to nearly 50 per cent over ten years, from 60 per cent net to 6 per cent. Social sustainability is justified by the fact that I could re-list all the statistics I have said, but the World Economic Forum should have enough measurement of the inclusiveness of economic growth, which shows that all social sectors benefit from the growth of the economy. And for environmental sustainability, let me just quote that the Hungarian economy increased by 5 percent in 2018 by 0.6 percent, and by 2030 we have not only a target, but also a strategy, tools and resources to make our electricity production 90 percent carbon neutral. The program "Teach for Hungary" is also part of a serious social catch-up strategy. This, for example, has reduced the proportion of children whose parents are not going to work in the morning, but the statistics in which we have made progress over the last ten years could be listed. By the way, from September there will be at least twice as many mentored children as many as three times as there will be in the program "Teach for Hungary." And finally, what the government has done with the scientific R &amp; D, innovation layer or circle in the last year: it has increased its support by HUF 32 billion, i.e. we spend 25 percent more on science today than we did a year ago. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-07-97	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers and convincing arguments in this special debate. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. General debate on the draft law on the amendment of law as a minority item until closure. Presentation by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/10303. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay special tribute to the members of the minority committee present. We are pleased that they are involved and are part of this debate. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, the chairman of the nationality committee, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will give his speech on the pulpit and his exposé. Mr. President, please.
u2020-05-07-98	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Bitte erlauben Sie mir, dass ich Sie im Namen des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, als Unterbreiter der Gesetzesmodifizierung Nr. T/10303. des von 2011 über die Rechte der Nationalitäten Gesetztes Nr. CLXXIX begrüße. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as T/10303. CLXXIX 2011 rapporteur for the draft law amending the law on the rights of nationalities, I welcome you. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law Article 2 of the Act reads as follows: (1) Nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. (2) Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. (3) Detailed rules on the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, nationalities and conditions for recognition as nationalities, and rules for the election of local and national minority self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law. A material law may make recognition as a nationality subject to a fixed period of nationality and to the initiative of a certain number of persons claiming to belong to that nationality. The fundamental law referred to by the Fundamental Law is CLXXIX of 2011. Law on the rights of nationalities. The Hungarian Parliament, building on the most noble traditions of Hungarian history, the preservation of the specific culture of nationalities living with Hungary for centuries in this country, the maintenance and development of their mother tongue, the broad provision of their individual and community rights, taking into account the responsibility expressed in Hungary's Fundamental Law for the cause of nationalities in Hungary, and the inclusion of international documents created with the active cooperation of Hungary in the protection of nationalities, the list of documents comes here and continues, bearing in mind that Hungary respects the different religious traditions of the country, the freedom and culture of other peoples, confesses that individual freedom can only expand in cooperation with others, that all Hungarian citizens belonging to nationalities have the right to freely declare and preserve their identity, that the nationalities are part of the Hungarian political community, that cultural diversity, linguistic diversity is not the division, but the source of enrichment, the cultural values created by nationalities are integral parts of Hungary's cultural heritage, the specific rights of nationalities are fundamental freedoms and the protection of their own right to preserve the right to self-law of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right to promote the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the right of the mother tongue, the right of the right of the mother tongue, the mother., the right of the right of the The law created, the law on the rights of nationalities, is the most important law for us, the indigenous nationalities living in Hungary, if you will: our basic nationality law. On this basis, it is not a coincidence that, following the provision of parliamentary representation of Hungarian nationalities in 2014, the first legislative amendment proposal of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, T/460. CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on the election procedure а It was a bill amending the Act, submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary to Parliament on 27 June 2014 and adopted by Parliament on 30 June 2014. At that time, the amendment contained 13 paragraphs. [[16.00]] Following this, more than three years of work came to the new amendment for 2017, submitted on 7 November 2017 by T/18296. CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. a bill amending the law. In parentheses, I note that we submitted T/18297 at the same time as the amendment of the Nek Act. 2011 on national public education. CXC. It is also a bill amending the law, since, for us, besides the Nek Act, the survival of our nationalities and the future of the other most important law is undoubtedly the Public Education Act. In the amendment of the Nek Act in 2017, we have already amended 27 paragraphs. During the preparation of the bill, we have faced all the difficulties of the legislative work, we have stumbled over all the obstacles, for us there has been a great deal of experience and lessons learned. President János Fuzik spoke about this in detail in his speech at the time, and I would like to thank him for his successful work as President of the NEB in the last four years. Of course, in the 2017 bill, only the sections with which all the nationalities, all the specialities, all the factions and the government agreed were included in the preparation, were adopted unanimously, with 177 votes in favour, which I thank the previous Parliament. At the same time, dozens of topics, proposals, issues to be resolved could not be included in the 2017 amendment, because we have not succeeded in proposing and finding a solution to them with everyone's agreement. Of course, we did not give up on these arrangements, but we left them for later. As Chairman of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary re-established after the new parliamentary election on 8 April 2018, one of my first activities was to establish CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. In parallel, we started preparing the concrete materials for the next amendment of the Nek Act, a similar working group of the Association of National Local Governments. Here I would also like to thank the leaders of the two working groups, Antal Paulik, Slovak national minority advocate, and Mr Dancsó Musev, Bulgarian President, Deputy President of the ONÖSZ, for the successful preparatory work. The effectiveness and effectiveness of our work were significantly improved and facilitated by the fact that, in spring 2019, the government included the amendment of the Nek Act in its legislative programme, and, under the leadership of the State Secretariat of the Prime Minister's Office for Church and Nationality Relations, it also formed an inter-ministerial working group to prepare the bill. All stakeholders, such as the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Finance, the Government Office of Budapest, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the Association of National Governments and, of course, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. For nearly a year, the issues to be regulated and amended were drawn up by all concerned and, from the beginning of August 2019, we have been working very hard to draw up a concrete bill. I would also like to thank Dr. Zoltán Fürjes Deputy State Secretary responsible for ecclesiastical and ethnic relations, who led the inter-relationships extremely strictly but very effectively, and Dr. Szalainé dr. Sándor Erzsébet, Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary, who helped us in almost all negotiations with his personal presence. I personally completed the preparatory work of the bill between 2014 and 2017 as well as the present more than a year and a half, so I know exactly how much more effective the preparation of this bill was than in 2017. Thank you. During the preparation, we tried to ensure that all the possibilities for consultation were as wide as possible, so we talked about the amendments several times at the meeting of the Thematic Working Group on Nationalities. I also sent the intermediate working papers and the pre-decision work paper prepared in ParLex to all parliamentary groups, all independent representatives, the feedback was taken into account when finalising the bill. The proposal, once its material has been cleared, has been through all governmental forums, so I am happy to say, and I hope that the situation has not changed in this regard, that the government also supports our presentation. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] However, it has not changed since 2017 that only proposals for amendments were included in the bill, with which everyone agreed during the preliminary negotiations. Every issue, problem, issue that we could not find a solution with which everyone could agree was not included in this bill. However, we have not given up on these, but we must continue to work on them, and we hope that in the next bill of amendment these may be settled. I do not wish to discuss in detail the specific paragraphs of 48 of the current bill, since their general and detailed justifications adequately support their justification and necessity. However, let me consider some specific points as an exception to the rule and with some additional explanations. First, the first is the 1st. Article 1 (1) CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. [[Hereinafter referred to as "Nek'. TV.]] The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. (hereinafter referred to as "Nek'. (TV) 2. Article 4b is replaced by the following: The following point 4b is inserted: a public education institution participating in ethnic education: a public education institution whose statutes include the performance of nationality tasks in accordance with the national law on public education, provided that these tasks are effectively performed by the public education institution and, in the case of kindergartens, schools and colleges, less than 25% of the pupils participate in national pre-school education and in the education of ethnic schools. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The establishment of this definition was extremely important, since so far the Nek Act has defined only the nationality public education institution, according to which, I quote, the public education institution whose founding document contains the performance of nationality tasks in accordance with the National Public Education Act, provided that these tasks are actually performed by the public education institution, and, in the case of kindergarten, school and college, at least twenty-five percent of the pupils are involved in the education and education of ethnic preschools and ethnic schools. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The definition of the institution involved in the education and education of nationality was necessary in order to establish clearly and legally correct the right of agreement and opinion of the minority self-governments. [[16.10]] The 2011 CXC is prepared. I hope that next week the bill for amending the National Public Education Act will be submitted to Parliament, in which the right to vote and to vote on public education institutions of national authorities can finally be clearly and clearly regulated by this definition. Secondly, I would like to call on our bill 20. § (3) of the notice, according to which:, (3) Nek. TV. 81. § 2 shall be replaced by the following: b ) to conclude a contract of employment for senior workers subject to the Labour Code Act if the self-government of a given nationality does not exercise the right of assignment or employer and a maintenance decision including the self- administration of the nationalities in education and culture may be taken only with the agreement of the local government of that nationality, in the case of a ecclesiastical public education institution or a ecclesiastical higher education institution, by seeking the opinion of the local government of that nationality. In the absence of a local minority self-government concerned, the views of the local associations of the relevant regional and, in the absence of this, the national government shall be sought. T/10098 on the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws. The questions raised by the legislative proposal No 1 and the law enforcement have been clearly regulated with regard to the assignment of managers in different employment relationships in different ethnic institutions and the withdrawal of the mandate. Third, the bill 9. I would like to point out that the Nek. TV. 25. Paragraph 6 of the Act shall be replaced by the following:. 6) Together with the transfer of the right of maintenance, the movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the educational and educational tasks of the institution of public education shall, without delay after taking up its duties, be free of charge until the beginning of the education or school year at the latest in accordance with Article 125. With the exception of paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act, it shall be transferred to the property of the national minority self-government by returning the ownership of the property to the original owner if (a) it ceases without the maintenance successor, or (b) the public education institution ceases to exist. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By amending the Nek Act in 2017, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, the assets of movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the public education institution had to be transferred to the management of free property of the national institutional authorities, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, but the ownership remained with the original owner. This has been a significant step forward in ensuring the cultural and educational autonomy of nationalities, but the experience of the last two years justifies the transfer of ownership instead of trust rights, while, of course, ensuring and imposing the necessary guarantees at the same time. Fourthly, I would like to mention the bill as a little interesting, but also as a lesson 36. Paragraph (2) of the Nek, which reads: (2) The Nek. TV. 123. in paragraph 4 the following point (f) is added: 2) The Nek. TV. 123. The following point (f) shall be added to paragraph 4 of this Article: (A) (f) in addition to ex post reporting to the General Assembly, from the date of termination of the term of office of the President until the date of the election of the new President, except for the exercise of fundamental employer's rights, he shall be entitled to exercise only the commitment of the expenditure for the year of operation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Following the election of the national minority self-government on 13 October 2019, we were surprised by the fact that although the minority self-government system is more than 25 years old, from the date of expiry of the mandate of the President of the national minority self-government until the day of the election of the new President, which may be up to a month and a half, neither direct nor re-routing, there is an indirect regulation to carry out the duties of the President, to ensure the continued legal functioning of the national minority self-governments. This legal gap is settled by the amendment in this very important area. As a fifth, I think it is important to say that the Budapest Government Office and several county government offices took part in the entire preparation process for a reason, because the issues raised by them formed a separate chapter in the negotiations. We all considered it extremely important that there should be clear legislation, appropriate procedures for all concerned to deal with potential non-compliant national governments, and, after the restoration of regularity, to return the suspended or revoked rights of the national minority self-government, since with a small exaggeration, it can be said that as many county government offices as there are, we have encountered almost as many procedures in recent years. Uniform application of the law is a fundamental condition for legal certainty. It is in the interests of both the national authorities, the legislator and the law-abiding authorities, that the irregular operation be discovered as soon as possible, that the sanctions applied in a uniform manner ensure that the proper functioning is ensured as soon as possible, and that the local government is immediately restored to normal operation. Some of the main points of the discussion were included in the current amendment proposal, but the area that was not included in the fundamental law is significantly larger, but, under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Office, with the involvement of all departments and the most affected government offices, the regulations and procedures that will ensure uniform and effective application of the law will be supplemented and clarified, as we hope. Finally, I would like to mention a whole new point in the bill, namely Article 14 (1). Article 56 of the Nek Act. The following provision is proposed in place of Article 5 of the Treaty:.1 () The election of representatives of local minority self-governments shall be made if, on the basis of an examination of the degree of self-organization of the locality and its nationality in the municipality, the national minority self-government considers it necessary to manage the minority community of the municipality. (2) The national minority self-government is obliged to consult the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences when examining the nationality of nationality in a given settlement. (3) The national minority self-government shall inform the National Election Committee, as determined by the National Election Committee, by 31 May of the year of election, of the municipalities where the self-administration of the nationality community is required under paragraph 1 of this Article. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Finally: - (6) By way of derogation from paragraph (1), the election of municipal representatives of local governments shall be made even if the number of persons belonging to that nationality in the municipality reaches twenty-five persons per nationality according to the aggregated data of the reporting of issues of the last census relating to belonging to that nationality, and the nationality municipality in the municipality operates. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The purpose of paragraphs 1 to 3 is that in settlements where the number of persons belonging to a given nationality according to the nationality data of the reporting of issues of the 2021 census relating to belonging to a given nationality is equal to or greater than 25 persons, but there will not be an election of a nationality municipality, there will not be automatically written out, unless, on the basis of an examination of the degree of self-organization of that nationality and its nationality in the municipality, the national minority government considers it necessary to administer the self-management of the nationality community of the settlement. [[16.20]] This is not only to ensure the purity of the election of local minority representatives starting with the general election in 2024, but also to prevent the nationality data of the data provided on the nationality issues of the 2021 census, which are alien, personal, or political, in small settlements. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Soltész, for the initiative and the transfer of the amendment. Mr President, Dear House, I look forward to your views on the bill, your possible questions and your suggestions, which I will be willing to answer in the general debate or in the author's closing words. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmersamkeit.
u2020-05-07-99	Thank you, Mr Ritter Imre, for the presentation. Then I'll ask Mr. Miklós Soltés, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-07-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman of the Nationalities. I salute the ladies and gentlemen of the minority. Dear Parliament, Europe can only be strong and can only survive if the individual nation states and the nationalities living there are strong. This requires that indigenous nationalities are able to preserve and pass on their national identity, language and culture. In Hungary there are 13 indigenous nationalities, Bulgarians, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Armenians, Roma, Romanians, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenians and Ukrainians. They both claim to be Hungarian and belonging to the particular nationality. They accept and appreciate Hungary's culture, its Christian roots, customs and laws, the working and faithful citizens of Hungary. Therefore, our country recognises, respects and outstandingly supports indigenous nationalities living with us. Hungary's national policy is also exemplary at European level. Although every state and every government would support nationalities in their country as we do, even though Brussels would think the same way in every respect towards nationalities! Since 2010, support for indigenous nationalities in our country has increased to an unprecedented extent; in 2020, their central budget support has already increased by five times as early as ten years ago. The number of institutions maintained by national authorities, especially schools, has increased by about seven times. While in 2012, in the 2019-2020 school year there are 91 such institutions, in which 15,000 children are raised and students are taught. In 2010, the local minority self-governments maintained 5 public education institutions, now 63. That's a 12-fold increase. And it's also a recent message that there were 454 students applying for graduation exams at national schools, all of whom showed up at their schools on Monday. Here I would like to thank the national authorities, the maintenance and schools, the teachers, who are involved in the education and public education of children. In parallel with the spectacular increase in subsidies and institution-keeping, the introduction of a minority spokesperson institution was also a historic step. Since 2014, he has represented all 13 nationalities in the National Assembly. With the help of the preferential quota, the German nationality was able to get its own Member of Parliament to the Parliament in 2018. The spokespersons are free to express their views and views on any matter concerning nationalities here in the Hungarian Parliament. Over the years, I have enjoyed paying attention to their speeches and opinions. Apart from a failed opposition speech, it can be said that national minority advocates receive respect for the community they represent. The Government of Hungary, together with the German minority representative, the spokespersons and the national presidents, also significantly supports nationalities living in Hungary in preserving and passing on their identity, mother tongue and culture. A significant increase in the allocation of national minority applications will help the lives of national civil society organisations. In 2020, ethnic education and educating teachers increased their ethnic allowance to 40 per cent. For ethnic communities in Hungary From January 2019 we introduced a program of ethnic education and scholarship, which was extended in the 19/20 academic year and increased from HUF 75 million to HUF 260 million at the beginning of the year. The fact that we have been able to give such significant support to nationalities in recent years has also been due to the work of the Hungarian people and to good governance. This is where I should thank our Members of Parliament, who are keen on the fate of their constituency and their nationalities; who, together with the German minority representative, helped to vote in favour of the budget proposals, taking into account the comments of the advocates. We hope that the recovery of the economy after the epidemic can take place as soon as possible and that we can continue to support our nationalities and develop their public institutions. This is also a priority when planning the budget for 2021. However, it is incomprehensible that support, assistance, protection and, unfortunately, acceptance of indigenous nationalities are not self-evident everywhere in Europe. Although around 60 million people in Europe belong to an indigenous nationality, a national minority, the previous President of the European Commission and the Balliberal Vice-President of the European Parliament who fears democracy did not consider it important, for example, to put on the agenda the Minority SafePack European Citizens' Initiative, despite the overall support of 1 million 120 thousand EU citizens. We hope that the new European Commission will take a positive decision and launch the legislative process to preserve the identity of nationalities in Europe. It is also unacceptable that in many countries of Europe, there is no understanding or even suspicion of crossing the borders of a neighbouring country's minister, his secretary of state, to keep in touch with his fellow nations. However, for the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people, it is natural that the leaders of the mother countries of indigenous nationalities living with us keep in touch with the nationalities living here. [[16.30]] I have been able to celebrate several times with the leaders of Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian, Slovak state leaders or faraway countries, such as Germany, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria and Poland, on various occasions. In the fact that the Government of Hungary does not tolerate it, but strongly supports and generously promotes the preservation and transfer of the identity of indigenous nationalities living with us, the same Christian culture is a strong common foundation for all our nationalities. I should mention here the significant service of our churches, which play an irreplaceable and unique role in the preservation and transmission of the language and culture of indigenous nationalities living with us. It is important to mention that our excellent relationship with indigenous nationalities in Hungary also has a positive impact on our relations with their mother countries, for example, children and young people who participate in a native language camp with Hungarian support in their mother country are the most credible ambassadors of Hungary and Hungarian people. We hope that European political life will not be part of the incomprehensible and painful revelations that the President of Romania recently made about the Hungarian community living there. On the other hand, I would like to point out here that Hungarians and Romanians, Slovaks, Ukrainians, Serbs, Croatians, Slovenians in this region are interested in each other's development and success; that our countries and nations are strengthened and that we can represent the interests of our nations and our countries even more effectively in European politics. We sincerely hope that in countries where there are still anti-minority political forces, the internal political situation will stabilize, and the anti-Hungarian voices will also fade out of public speech. For this reason, it is also important that legislation concerning nationalities be taken out from time to time, if necessary, to be clarified. States have dual obligations in this respect: protecting the identity of nationalities and protecting and enforcing the rights associated with their identity. Following the change of regime, Hungary clearly acted as set out above when it established the legal institution of the national authorities alongside the local authorities, and by providing the right legal instruments it helped to preserve the identity of the nationalities living in Hungary. Hungary's Fundamental Law, adopted in 2011, both in its preamble and in its standard text, states that the ethnicities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. The state undertakes to protect and cultivate the language and culture of nationalities. According to the Fundamental Law, any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to a free confession and preservation of his identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments, as well as detailed rules on the rights of nationalities and the rules for the election of their local and national self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law. The rights of nationality as well as the rights of minority self-government in the year 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. It's in law. The national minority law sets out the legal framework that allows and ensures the implementation of their individual and community rights on the basis of the free identity of nationalities and the institutional basis for living nationality. However, the law is a system in constant motion. As a result of the comprehensive checks and regular contacts, it has been established that a comprehensive review of the nationality law is also necessary. Practical experience has shown that different interpretations of the law have occurred in several cases, and in some cases a lack of regulation has also been observed. For example, it has become clear from the experience of several national minority self-government elections that, in addition to the significant results achieved, we should continue to consider the reduction of the possible emergence of so-called ethnobinis as a priority. This is an important principle for the government, and it is therefore reassuring that the proposed legislation will also give a clear answer. On this basis, it is clear that it is necessary to initiate a single, comprehensive review based on enforcement experience. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speakers, Therefore, the government supports the bill before this House, and in particular the fact that we are living in a democracy in which nationalities have their own parliamentary representation, and we can now negotiate this bill on their initiative and on the basis of their presentation. To my knowledge, there is no example of this in any European country that nationalities and minority minorities can submit the fundamental law serving them, which has the greatest impact on their lives. In order to prepare the legislative amendment, as the Member said, a preparatory working group was convened in the summer of 2019 with the help of the Prime Minister's Office. These include the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities Living in Hungary, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary with the Speakers of Parliament and the Member, the Association of National Governments, the Government Offices in the Capital and County, the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior for Social Inclusion, the State Secretary for Education of the Ministry of Human Resources, and other government actors involved in the legislation, such as the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. At the meetings of the working group, the proposals submitted by the metropolitan and county government offices, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, as well as the amendments to the law drawn up by our State Secretariat, were assessed, summarised and drawn up in a final professional resolution. The current amendment seeks to clarify the changes in the lives of nationalities in some areas, while complying with the obligation of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, with the aim of strengthening the system of instruments necessary for the exercise of the rights of nationality. The Nationality Act does not currently settle the GDPR and the CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. in accordance with the law, a particularly sensitive issue relating to the processing of personal data in the award of scholarships, which is justified in the light of the legal treatment of the issue. There have also been continuous signals from the institutional maintenance nationalities about the difficulties in running the public education institutions they maintain if the maintainer does not have ownership of the property where the task is provided. The Government therefore supports the fact that, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, movable or immovable property for the performance of the functions of the public education institution should be transferred without delay, but not later than the beginning of the education or school year, to the ownership of the maintenance nationality municipality. Of course, if, for some reason, the activity there changes, the activity ceases, then the ownership returns to its original owner. The proposed amendment sets out the mandatory public tasks of local self-governments, including newly created local minority self-governments, as well as rules on institution establishment and take-over. [[16.40]] With the amendment, from the general election of the representatives of the minority self-government in 2024 the election of the representatives of the local minority self-government should be made if, on the basis of the assessment of the degree of self-organization of the particular nationality and the nationality of the locality, the national minority municipality considers it necessary to administer the self-government of the minority community of the municipality. The national minority government examines the degree of self-organization of the nationality in the municipality and the duration of nationality in the settlement. In the context of the degree of self-organization of a given nationality, it is appropriate to examine whether the municipality operates a nationality foundation, a civil society organisation or an association of nationalities, ensured the regularity of its operations, such as the submission of the annual accounts in accordance with the legislation, and its taxable results, and the results of the year were not negative. It is further examined that State aid is granted to this organisation, foundation or ethnic association. The national minority self-government is obliged to consult the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences when examining the nationality of the national minority in a given settlement. The national minority self-government shall inform the National Electoral Commission, by 31 May of the year of the election, of the municipalities where the self-administration of the minority community is required on the basis of the examination. Unlike the previous ones, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should also be set if the number of persons belonging to the particular nationality in the settlement, according to the aggregated data of the last census on issues relating to belonging to that nationality, reaches 25 persons per nationality, and there is a minority self-government in the settlement. By reducing the required number from 30 to 25, the operation of national minority municipalities created by many small settlements and of national minority self-governments established by several smaller nationalities will be ensured and ensured. With this proposal, it responds to demographic changes in ethnic communities, and by linking the formation of the local minority self-government with local ethnic activity, it explicitly expresses anti-Assimilation efforts and gives motivation. In addition, the proposal sets out detailed rules on the right of agreement granted to the national minority self-government, as well as the guarantee rules relating to the failure to act in cooperation with the local self-government and the local self-government, in the absence of this, the local minority self-government. The amendment provides for the right to appeal to national authorities, provided that no case directly affecting nationality rights falling within the remit of the local government is dealt with. Another important objective is to ensure the functioning of national representative bodies and to clarify the personal conditions of their capacity. The Government also welcomes the proposal to do so: the cases of the termination of the mandate of the representative of the national minority self-government will be extended in accordance with Article 87 of the Nationality Act. § 3 on the date of the interim election, and the non-compliance of the representative with his obligation to make a declaration of assets after 90 days. In order to ensure that the Member's failure to fulfil obligations beyond 90 days does not render the low number of municipal ethnic representative bodies inoperative, the proposal provides for the legal consequences of the non-compliance of the Member with this obligation. The amendment also clarifies that the public hearing is a form of the representative board meeting, the practical importance of which is mainly related to the task-based support of national authorities when examining the conditions for entitlement to this. In addition to the above, the voluntary public tasks of the national minority self-government are complemented by the establishment and maintenance of a social care institution with the permission of the minister concerned. This will enable our fellow nationalities to experience their own ethnic identity from birth to the last moment of their lives. As far as I know, there is also no such legislative option in Europe. To my knowledge, this proposal, which you have asked for and presented to the Parliament, is certainly exemplary and exemplary. A guarantee rule will also be introduced to ensure that textbooks are available free of charge to pupils in ethnic public education and education. In addition, the proposal contains a number of text-focusing amendments and codification and technical clarification in order to ensure consistency and clarity in the application of the law. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Dear Women and Lords of Speech! As explained above, the bill simplifies and clarifies the existing legislation, strengthens and extends the system of the exercise of nationality rights in the local government corps, as well as in the field of public education, self-government of education and the capacity of the minority self-government to assert interest. The government is aware that it is only Christian faith and culture, the preservation and transfer of national and ethnic identity and cooperation that can help us to survive. That is why I can assure you that as long as the Fidesz-KDNP government is leading Hungary, the nationalities living with us will continue to receive all the help they need to preserve, pass on, develop and maintain their language and culture. We hope that our good example will sooner or later find followers in as many countries as possible, and that the protection and support of indigenous nationalities in the countries of Europe will be completely natural. This is necessary for Europe to remain as much as possible in its Christian and national identity, so that our grandchildren can pass on our faith, language and culture. God bless and keep the indigenous nationalities in our country: Bulgarians, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Armenians, Roma, Romanians, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenians and Ukrainians and, of course, all citizens of Hungary! But I also pay tribute to national minorities living in any country of Europe, for whom we encouraged the people of Hungary, together with the representative of the national minority working in the Hungarian Parliament, and with the national minority advocates, to help as many as possible with the collection of signatures that will expire tonight. The government supports the bill and recommends it to all factions and independent representatives. Thank you very much for your work, thank you very much for your cooperation, we will continue. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-07-101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to László B. Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[16.50]]
u2020-05-07-102	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In all areas of Hungary, nationalities have been resident for at least a century in a numerical minority among the population of the state, distinguishing them from the rest of the population by their own language, culture and traditions, as well as by evidence of a sense of belonging that aims to preserve all these, to express and protect the interests of their historically established communities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's the definition of the law. The rapporteur mentioned the provisions of the Fundamental Law, from which I would just repeat that nationalities in our country are state-creating factors. As you said, it was recorded at the constitutional level, almost in Europe in a unique way, that nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments and represent their interests, as is an example of what has been said that since 2014 the presence of nationalities in Hungary has been ensured in the Parliament according to a fundamental law. Allow me, fellow Members, to quote the thought of our late minister of cult and of József Baró Eötvös as an excellent reformer, and also of our late minister of state:, Whether we start from the general interests of the country or from the specific interests of individual nationalities, we can only come to one conviction: that the interests of the historical and political nations can only be assured if the needs of every nationality in the language are satisfied; and that, however, the needs of nationalities in different languages can only be satisfied if the unity and state existence of the country are assured. I believe that the idea is eloquent, for example, that, in the implementation of fundamental national interests and in the laws determining the fate of the country, the current government must act in close cooperation with the indigenous nationalities. Dear House, As the Secretary of State has already said, our current law on nationality rights does not properly regulate the legislation that has entered into force; the law on GDPR and information self-determination, the Freedom of Information Act, must be in line with the current regulatory systems, the laws that have been established and adopted since then, which have entered into force. The issue of personal data issues has been mentioned here, in which there is a need to ensure consistency with the legislation in force. The provisions of the proposal, as has been said, that movable and immovable property for the performance of the tasks of the public education institution should be transferred to the national authorities no later than the beginning of the school year, which I believe will provide the national authorities with very important future opportunities in the regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, The large-scale objective of the proposal before us is to create the conditions for the mandatory public tasks and the establishment and takeover of new national authorities, which have been mentioned by the rapporteur and the State Secretary. From 2024 onwards, from the general municipal elections that were due at that time, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should be set out and, as has been said, national ethnic communities should consider the possibility or obligation to run in elections on the basis of their own knowledge, understanding and the needs of national minorities. As has been said, one leg is responsible for the national minority self-government and the other requires a consultation with the President of the Academy in the launch of the new organisations and new municipalities, except for the possibility and obligation of the law, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State, that the number of people bound to the elections in smaller or larger communities with a national minority self-government has been reduced to 25 by the draft law, which we also believe will give many opportunities in smaller settlements where the number may have decreased compared to the previous ones. Dear Parliament, The amendment also includes detailed rules on the right of agreement granted to the national minority self-government, as well as the provisions on guarantees of default resulting from cooperation between the local government and the local minority self-government, and, from this point on, the picture is clear after its entry into force, and everyone will have a distinct responsibility and opportunity to settle disputes. In addition to what has been said so far, it is important to mention that the voluntary public tasks of the national minority self-government are complemented by the consultation of the minister of human resources with the establishment and operation of the social services institutions, which is important in the emphasis of the Minister of State, that practically everyone in this country can live on his traditions, culture and customs related to his nationality from birth to the end. This is, in my view, a very important step for nationalities in Hungary in terms of the viability of their long-term national existence. There has also been a guarantee provision for students in national education and education to be provided here, as in all institutions of the country in the state institutional system, in religious institutions, textbooks should be made available to students free of charge. Dear House, In addition to the above, the proposal also contains text-focusing and technical amendments to a number of legislative units that ensure the accuracy of this amendment in accordance with the constitution, laws and house rules. In 2010, the Hungarian government decided to maintain close contact with our national governments in the pursuit of the interests of our country and in achieving our common goals. The ethnicities living in our country have increased the cultural heritage and diversity of the Hungarian nation with their culture and traditions. In my view, the proposal on the House's table guarantees a high level of respect for the rights of nationalities and support for their participation in society. Finally, on behalf of the Fidesz faction, I would like to give my clear support to the bill, and on behalf of my group, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State, his colleagues, the representative of nationality, the advocates and ladies for their ability to submit this bill, and the indigenous ethnicities living with us, for their future support for Fidesz-KDNP. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for their work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-103	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-07-104	Herr Präsident! Hohes Haus! Zunächst möchte ich im Namen der größten Oppositionspartei Jobbik, der konservativen Jobbik-partei, äh, beim Herrn Ausschußvorsitzenden Ritter für diese Gesetzesvorlage mich bedanken. Dear House, First of all, on behalf of the largest opposition party in Parliament, the Conservative Jobbik, I would like to thank the chairman of the minority committee, Mr Ritter, and I would also like to welcome the representatives of the other nationalities, Grüß Gott, dobar dan, to use only the two languages that are used in my Sopron region. We are very pleased that this package of amendments to the national minority law has come before this House. [[17.00]] I planned my speech, slightly unlike before, as an evaluation and debate on the bill, because its content, as we have all received it in advance, is known by an average Member. I am very pleased that these proposals for amendments, which, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, have come before this House after a very broad preparation, respond to a lot of things that have been in Jobbik's programme for many years, because I would also like to state here that we have always had detailed programmes for nationalities in Hungary, not only the Hungarian national community living in the divided parts of the country, especially those national minorities who have their own institutional network and serious traditions in Hungary. I am very pleased that this bill responds to the so-called ethnobiznis phenomenon. Finally, a great deal of public money has been put in pockets like the one in front of Flórian Farkas, who, in the opinion of OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office, has acted with criminal negligence. I would like to point out that it is not essentially the task of this legislative package to respond to this fundamental and principled question, but obviously at the beginning of such a debate, if we are discussing the law on the rights of nationalities in Hungary, then I must say that we will continue to maintain our position that the issue of the 12 nationalities and the Roma community in Hungary is not certain that it is best to settle the issue of a law and on the same terms. This is just a point of principle, I would like to say once again, not for this presentation and for the conduct of this debate, because, as I said, if we are talking about the nationality law, I think it was appropriate to state this very important principle at the beginning. I very much welcome the fact that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences does not, therefore, consist only of Soros agents, we will also take into account its opinion if we look at the nativeity of the given nationality in the given settlements. This means that the national authorities and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will decide on a case-by-case basis that the ethnic elections will be announced in the given settlement. I consider it appropriate, however, to consider that small settlements are on the one hand, where I think the situation is relatively clear in many cases, precisely on the basis of the small size of the settlements, we have a relatively accurate knowledge of its ethnic composition, but I would also like to point out here that the phenomenon of ethnobiznis is, for example, one of the most widespread in Budapest, because there is indeed in every district, if you may say so, that all nationalities have local governments, and people do not say that they are native to that district or not. It is very likely that people belonging to a given nationality live in every district, only because of the magnitudes, but I do not see the methodology here, so how it will be possible to exclude this, since it is stated that, let us say, I myself, who was president of the national German government for 22 years, have never received a penny fee, but in Budapest, the issue of fees has always been raised by the national governments. I would also like to note another aspect in the debate, which concerns the provisions on school maintenance and proposals for amendments. I fully support the terms set out in this bill. However, I would like to respond to the whole ethnic education situation, which I will obviously not say in this speech by the lead speaker, and a longer debate on the whole minority minority minority self-government system could be held, so after 25 years in this case. I'm sorry. Without modesty, I highly recommend my latest book, Deutsche Minderheit und Institutionen, where I have analysed the last 25 to 30 years in quite detail in this regard. However, in this case, I must say that, for example, the existing right of agreement on pedagogical programmes, which Fidesz has taken away, would be a very important right, I think, in particular, in the case of schools not maintained by the nationalities, especially KLIK, where according to the current regulations only the minority government has the right to agree on the election of the head of the pedagogical institution, who later sets out the pedagogical programme. This is a relatively strong driver's license, and I do not dispute it; I would just like to pay tribute to the fact that I thought this earlier practice was very good when the approval of pedagogical programmes also had the right to agree with the national authorities. I also very much welcome the part of this bill that makes it possible to create social homes, especially since, unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer people who are usually elderly people of domestic nationality who forget Hungarian a lot in the old age, because if their first language was the language of the national minority, this is a natural phenomenon at this age, and it is of paramount importance for them to have this language for our citizens of domestic nationality in the old age as well. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the whole supply system is already facing very serious problems, and I do not think that we need to tell anyone. To give a concrete example, let's say, a significant part of the German population in Baranya is going to Germany for a living there to care for elderly people and not to remain in Baranya. So in general, we must say once again, without a detailed analysis, that, indeed, the situation of domestic nationalities can be called excellent from a legal point of view and from the point of view of parliamentary representation at European level. At the same time, if you look at the language use and the loss of language processes, it's not quite as rosy, I think. The most serious problems are indicated by small settlements, where very many domestic nationalities live in large numbers, because when these small settlements are losing weight and slowly disappearing through the general demographic and economic processes, and it doesn't matter whether it is a German ethnic or Croatian ethnic settlement in Baranya, or even a small settlement in Slovenian on the western border, we can see that, despite the legal system, these are processes that are obviously general processes that need to be remedied not by the system of nationality law, but by general measures that provide a real economic background for these small settlements. With all due respect, therefore, I would like to point out that, together with my fellow Member, Mr Schwarcz-Kiefer Patrik, a better representative of the Baranya County Municipality, we will present to this House, in the period after the collapse of the coronal virus, a proposal that will enable economic support for regions with a fairly large population of nationalities. This is also fully in line with the European Citizens' Initiative launched by the Szekler National Council, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State in his introduction, which Jobbik also supported from the very beginning, and whose deadline unfortunately expires today. Unfortunately, I am saying this because, although we have managed to achieve one million recommendations and signatures, we have failed to collect the necessary recommendations in the seven EU Member States. I find this very regrettable, even because I was one of the first signatories of the Minority SafePack as president of the German minority working group of FUEN, and that citizens' initiative will soon be discussed, thank God, by the highest level of the European Union. At the same time, this citizens' initiative, launched by the Szekler National Council, could also provide a kind of European Union support for the problem I have outlined in more detail, which, as I said, will soon be developed and for which I will ask all parliamentary parties and, of course, the nationalities concerned to support. [[17.10]] In summary, the Jobbik faction will support this bill and thank you once again for your work so far. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-07-105	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Zsolt Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2020-05-07-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank Mr President and the committee for their valuable work, because this proposal is eligible for support, and even for a vote in Parliament. My fellow oppositionist spoke for a long time about the rational arguments that I myself share. Government MPs and the Hungarian government were more limited to the mechanical reading of the draft legislation or the draft law, with a valuable proposal containing serious guarantee elements that are forward-looking to the nationalities of Hungary. We're very happy for you. It is particularly important to clarify farming issues. If criticism is allowed, and this does not concern the proposal, and it is addressed to the least of the President, but rather to the former unregulated, business-like options, it might have been better to do so before, whether by the Hungarian government or by a two-thirds majority. They've been delayed for a long time. What I would like to mention is the situation with regard to textbooks, but it should be mentioned here immediately that it would be right not only for minority minorities to have a free textbook and, of course, this criticism is not for the committee and not for the President, but for the Hungarian Government, so it would be good to have this situation in general, and positive discrimination would be acceptable here, but it would be even better if this rule were completely general. It is necessary to address an interesting aspect of the government's ambition for normal control and censorship when a municipal decision is attached to a ministerial licence in this respect in the case of the establishment of social institutions. We are also talking about local governments here, too, in the case of minority self-governments. What is the need to tie this solution to a ministerial permit? So these would be the critical comments, despite which I say so, that this proposal can still be supported. There are a lot of forward-looking points, and I'm not doing a list of them right now. The most important are the guarantees for both elections, and the usual reduction from 30 to 25 mentioned by everyone is also one of these useful rules, which obviously facilitates the operation of minority self-governments in this respect. The issue of financing is also very important, since we must not forget that the high targets always require resources and resources that are perhaps less likely to be abused now. Let us be careful, because we know that what can be abused is usually abused by the government, which cannot be done, and therefore let us be careful. However, on the part of the committee and of the President, these proposals are certainly forward-looking and appear to be much more useful and powerful than the current legislation, so that the objectives of nationalities and the institutions associated with them, the funding opportunities that serve to complete the nationalities in Hungary in a European consumable rule of law, but in any case the European Union's objectives that give rights and guarantees to minorities of nationality are certainly welcome. That is why I say that, in all likelihood and in a way that is bound up with certainty, the Socialist Members can count on a vote in favour with the minor criticisms I have covered. I merely note that, of course, it was not unprecedented, but it was unusual to hear a speech in German for so long, and I do not say that to Mr President, because you did so briefly, but as a fellow Member, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman consults with Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt.]] , who is not listening right now, but it was also interesting to say the longer German sentences in the Hungarian Parliament. Of course, I do not want to conjure up any historical era in the past, especially because the Member still does not deserve to listen to these sentences. Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you very much for everyone's work, because a country is always partly qualified by how it deals with minorities and how it deals with minorities. I think that within the European Union, but in the Carpathian Basin, I am sure that there are other countries who would still have room for improvement in the rights of minority minorities, especially in their policies regarding compliance with their guarantees. It may not be necessary to set many examples, but the current situation in Romania is a good example of how issues relating to minorities should not be dealt with. We are pleased that I have regained the attention of my fellow opposition Member. Thank you very much to the Honourable Parliament, and I wish you good work.
u2020-05-07-107	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-07-108	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Honourable representative of the national minority. Speaking Women and Lords! Before I read my mechanical opinion, as my fellow Member Zsolt Molnár said, I would actually say to my colleague Zsolt Molnár that you would have remained wise if you had kept quiet. I would like to respond to what has been said in two respects. One sentence refers to ethnobiznis. Honourable Congressman, If you knew the history of this current law, in 2011 we made a new fundamental law in order to prevent ethnobisz, and this was a huge, significant step in this process. So if you have an opinion on ethnobiznis, then you should discuss with your own factions and your party associates what you did during the many, many government cycles that followed. And if it raises funding, I can say that your government has given about a quarter of the funding support for the development of national governments, ethnic communities and their institutional system as we are talking about today. So I think that if you want to exercise criticism and practice this criticism in this form, I note in parentheses that there are obviously no perfect laws because they are people and there are no perfect situations, but we must strive to always improve them, but if we compare this with the period under your government, we have nothing to be ashamed of both from a legal point of view of ethnobiznis and financing, and I must even say that you have not taken this issue seriously, and we have made huge progress in the last ten years. If we are talking about ethnobiznis, then we can say that this current bill will help us even more and strengthen that kind of common ambition... I used to say that the goal is to strengthen authentic indigenous ethnic communities, and I think that this is a next important step in achieving this goal. Now, my honourable fellow Member, I will return to the mechanical reading [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár applauds.]] Because it's not to read, it's to show our thoughtful opinion and the thoughtful faction position, which is the genre of lead speech, I think. Ladies and gentlemen, On the meeting of 18 April 2011, the Parliament adopted the new Fundamental Law of Hungary. Both in the preamble to the Fundamental Law, in the National Confession and in its norm, the nationalities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. The state undertakes to protect and cultivate the language and culture of nationalities. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 of the Act, any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to a free confession and preservation of his or her identity. [[17.20]] Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments, as well as detailed rules on the rights of nationalities, as well as rules on the election of their local and national self-governments, which are fundamental to the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. by law. On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to say that we welcome T/10303 on the amendment of this law. Proposal 1. We are pleased to see that the bill is based on Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law. In compliance with the obligation referred to in Article 4 of the Treaty, the aim is to clarify the changes in the lives of nationalities in some areas, with a clear aim of strengthening the system of instruments necessary for the exercise of nationality rights, which, in agreement with the Government, is supported by our faction. Dear House, The Nationality Act adopted in 2011, as we have heard, does not, as appropriate, settle the CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in the General Data Protection Regulation. In accordance with the law, a particularly sensitive issue relating to the processing of personal data arising from the award of scholarships should be addressed by law. The KDNP fraction supports the important and life-like change that, together with the transfer of the maintenance right, movable and immovable property for the performance of the tasks of the public education institution should be transferred without delay, but not later than the beginning of the education or school year, to the ownership of the maintenance minority self-government. I think that this will make the functioning and funding of the institutions much more predictable and stable, among other things. The legislative amendment sets out the mandatory public tasks of local national authorities, including the newly created local minority authorities, and the rules on the establishment and takeover of institutions. With the amendment, from the general election of the representatives of the minority self-government in 2024 the election of the representatives of the local minority self-government should be made if, on the basis of the assessment of the degree of self-organization of the particular nationality and the nationality of the locality, the national minority municipality considers it necessary to administer the self-government of the minority community of the municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress that the national minority government in the municipality is examining the degree of self-organization of the particular nationality and the duration of nationality in the settlement. In relation to the degree of self-organization of a given nationality, it is appropriate to examine whether there is a nationality foundation or an association of nationalities in the municipality and to ensure the regularity of the operation and whether the result of the taxpayer is not negative. It is further examined that state aid is granted to the national minority foundation or national minority association. The national minority self-government is obliged to consult the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences when examining the nationality of the national minority in a given settlement. The national minority self-government shall inform the National Electoral Commission by 31 May of the year of the election of the municipalities where the self-administration of the minority community is required on the basis of the examination. Unlike the previous ones, the election of representatives of local minority self-governments should be made even if the number of persons belonging to that nationality in the settlement reaches 25 persons per nationality, according to the aggregated data of the reporting of issues of the last census relating to belonging to that nationality, and the minority self-government in the settlement operates. By reducing the required number from 30 to 25 people, the operation of national minority self-governments created by many small settlements and of national minority self-governments established by several smaller nationalities will be ensured. With this, the national or the legislator responds to demographic changes in the ethnic communities, and I would particularly like to point out that, by linking the formation of the local minority self-government with local ethnic activity, it explicitly expresses anti-assimilation efforts and adds motivation. Dear Parliament, In addition, detailed rules on the right of agreement granted to the national minority self-government, as well as the rules on guarantees relating to the failure to cooperate with the local self-government and the local minority self-government, will be implemented in the absence of this, as many have already said. The amendment provides for the right to appeal to the national minority self-government in the event that a case falling within the remit of the local government, which directly affects the rights of nationality, is not dealt with. An important objective in the bill is to ensure the functioning of national representative bodies, and to clarify the personal conditions of working ability. According to the proposal, cases of the termination of the mandate of the representative of the minority self-government will be extended to include Article 87 of the Nationality Act. § 3 on the date of the interim election, and the non-compliance of the representative with his obligation to make a declaration of assets after 90 days. In order to ensure that the Member's failure to fulfil obligations beyond 90 days does not render the low number of municipal ethnic representative bodies inoperative, the legislative proposal regulates the legal consequences of the failure of the Member to comply with this obligation. In addition to the above, the voluntary public tasks of the national minority self-government are complemented by the establishment or maintenance of a social care institution with the permission of the minister concerned. This will enable our fellow nationalities to live their own national identities practically, as others have already said, together with the Secretary of State, from birth to the last moment of their lives. A guarantee rule will also be included in the law to ensure that textbooks are available free of charge to pupils participating in ethnic education. Dear House, The bill makes a significant contribution to further strengthening the institutional system of the identity and autonomy of indigenous ethnic communities living in Hungary. I think that we still need this, which is why we must work for all of us in the coming period, and this would be very much needed within the European Union, where 60 million people are waiting for the establishment of the European Union's national minority protection system. On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to thank the committee of nationalities of Hungary, the representative, the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office for Church and Nationality Relations, the ladies, gentlemen and everyone involved in this preparation. We were pleased to hear that the preparation of the legislative amendment was carried out in an exemplary cooperation and long-term coordination, and we thank everyone for their activities and work in this respect. Of course, the KDNP faction will support this proposal, and we ask all other factions to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-109	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-07-110	Thank you very much. Dear House, In fact, I would like to start with what Mr Szászfalvi finished by saying that we are pleased to say that we are now discussing a bill that came before Parliament after an exemplary preparatory process, after a process in which stakeholders were asked, they were more precisely actively involved, and where there was sufficient time and methodical work to prepare a good quality bill. [[17 .30]] And I must say that this difference, which unfortunately distinguishes this bill from many of the legislative proposals that this House has been discussing recently, is also apparent in the result. I must say, therefore, that, on the one hand, a bill that is accompanied by a broad consensus of stakeholders and which has been properly prepared from both a professional and a legal point of view and, accordingly, a significant part of the rules contained therein is rationalising, a practical approach with which there is obviously no reason, but it would not be right to argue on a political basis. We also welcome the fact that the bill continues the positive Hungarian tradition that began after the change of regime, as referred to by the Minister of State, which considers national minorities to be a fully-fledged factor of state-making and accepts their rights and autonomy as a fundamental part of the Hungarian constitutional system and seeks to give them rights and opportunities in this framework. I think that, of course, this follows from the special situation of the Hungarian nation, but it also follows from what national traditions and historical traditions we all want to build on, and it is good to see that there is still agreement between political factors and political sides. As far as the specifics of the bill are concerned, I would like to address two issues in total. One is changes in the education system. In this case, there is, first of all, a difference between me and the Secretary of State and even the author in the framework of interpretation. More specifically, I would like to add the reasons. Because, while I think we are all happy to see an increase in the role of national minority self-government institution maintenance in education, a greater role for national self-governments as institutional supporters, and now that we have had longer experience with a number of institutions before 2010, most of them were positive, and after 2010, the number of these institutions increased significantly, so we can say that this is a positive process. This is a process which is good for clarification in its legal context now, but it is basically an eligible process. But let us add that one of the reasons for this is that there is an increase in the need for national education or that national authorities have demonstrated that they can maintain these institutions in a good quality. There is another reason: the state treats its own normal state institutions badly. He took these institutions from the municipalities, operated them in an impossible governance structure, separated them from the local communities, and neither their management nor their operation nor their funding were solved. For this reason, it was an attractive opportunity for many municipalities to transfer their institutions to minority self-government reservations. Once again, this is a positive process, it is good news that there are more ethnic institutions, but it would be really positive if the local communities could choose between two good options, or if parents could choose between two good options: a high-quality ethnic education, if they thought it was important, and parents would have the same choice of high-quality institutions who do not want to send their children to ethnic education. So once again, this is not, of course, the fault of the minority self-governments, it is not the fault of the national minority self-government system, and since the good owners of these institutions once again, I add, as opposed to the state, I see no fault in this alone, but as an educational politician I was also obliged to mention this connection. I would also like to say that we consider this to be considered, and we would like to hear stronger arguments than those on the basis of the bill, in addition to why local government or state property should be transferred to the management of national authorities in this way. I understand, of course, that this is a complicated situation, if the owner and the manager differ, but these are existing solutions, a range of administrative burdens could also be released from local governments and national authorities. I always worry when we wish to rearrange property by law. I don't think that's a good thing, I think it's a bad precedent when we give someone's fortune to someone else, even if it's in the right place and it's for good purposes. I can accept that this is necessary or may be necessary, but I would like to hear stronger arguments than what has already been said, either from the authors or from the government. Finally, and I think it's no coincidence that this paragraph is perhaps the one that triggers the most excitement in the press as well as the new 56th. I would like to address the rules on the establishment of local minority self-governments. In this matter, too, as I understand the intention, and I consider this to be absolutely acceptable, I know what kind of phenomena the authors intend to address, this regulation has raised concerns for two reasons. On the one hand, it introduces the issue of nationality in the settlement among the aspects that decide whether a nationality has the right to establish a local government or not in a given settlement. It is true that it takes out the municipalities where it has already worked and where at least 25 have declared themselves to be nationalities at the census. I must say, however, that this raises questions. Because it raises the question that the right to confess nationality and to belong to nationality, through which the right to a national self-government is linked to the person or to a settlement. If I live in a settlement, where there is a historical tradition of that nationality, I have the right, say, to call myself a Ruthenian and to create a Ruthenian minority self-government, but if I move to another settlement, and there are more of us who belong to this nationality, then we have the right to declare ourselves Ruthenian, but to create a Ruthenian minority self-government, if not by then, we have no right. This raises questions of equality of rights. It is a big question that this kind of historical view could indeed be enforced in the case of minority rights, and it could be said that otherwise the right to a minority or minority self-government should be linked to nationality in a given settlement. That's why people move inside the country. I guess it's not really a big problem, I'll have to add. Technically, it is not a big problem, because in larger settlements it is likely that if people move in, but there are more nationalities, I do not think that there is a real problem. Once again, there are principle-type reservations that it is appropriate to enforce this principle here. And there is another type of problem, and this is the transfer of the power of the decision to national minority self-governments. I'll add that if you have to make that decision, you're in the right place. So if we say that we don't regulate in some normative way where a local minority self-government can be created as it is now, but we say that otherwise it has to be limited, of course, I'm glad if I'm sorry, I don't want to hurt the government any more than I would normally be in a better place than, say, a government office or even a government-level decision. But it does pose the risk of raising local conflicts to the level of the national minority self-government. It may initiate a type of dispute as to why the national self-government in one of the municipalities allows or does not allow the establishment of a local minority self-government. [[17.40]] I am afraid that there will be some kind of conflict that will not be used either for the cause of nationality or for the system of minority self-government. I would like to say this once again: I see that practical problems have been tried by the authors of the legislation to the minimum, but it is still a question for us that it is right to put such a task on national minority self-governments, and, if I understand it correctly, but correct me, if I do not understand it correctly, without a remedy, because this is not an administrative decision, it cannot be brought before the court. If the national government decides that there is no legal remedy, this means serious reservations for us from a legal certainty point of view. Dear House, In very short, I would like to say that I agree with my fellow Member Brenner Koloman that this proposal does not address the problems of the Roma minority, the problems of the Roma minority self-government system, which are much more serious than those that could be dealt with in such a general, general review. However, many representatives of the Roma community also believe that this type of local government system is not suitable for specific problems of the Roma community. This matter will have to be dealt with at some point, but I am afraid that it will not be under this government, given that you are interested or interested in the current conditions of Roma self-governments. Finally, my dear House, I just want to correct one small thing. In his great effort to avoid too much consistency in Parliament, Mr State Secretary stabbed the European Union. You are probably unaware that Minority SafePacket was not intended to be negotiated by the Commission; it was already the previous Commission, the Juncker Commission, but, Mr. Secretary of State, I will tell you: it was the initiators who submitted the signatures only in January 2020 so that the new Commission could deal with it. Please be informed of this matter. I hope, by the way, that a constructive debate will also be launched on this issue in European forums, because, by the way, I believe that the basic points of the Minority SafePack are appropriate and that they should be discussed there. In summary, I would therefore like to thank the committee of national minorities, the relevant representatives of the government, for presenting to Parliament a well-prepared bill that can be fully negotiated and accepted in its content, and I very much hope that the concerns that still exist in us against some of the detailed rules of the bill will be resolved at a further stage of the debate or even with amendments, while we consider it to be fundamentally eligible. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-111	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-05-07-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President, I also welcome the representatives of nationalities in Hungary. I am now certain that I will limit myself to not repeating the opinions and additions that my fellow Members have said. It is not my place to defend Mr Zsolt Molnár, but I felt that he was referring to the fact that it may not be justified to present the text of the bill more than once, given that he is at the disposal of all the Members in writing. I think it is quite clear that it is a very important act on the part of the rapporteur to present it in this way and thus to include the text of the bill in the minutes. He referred to this, that in many respects my fellow Members repeated it mechanically, but this is such an important issue, and I do not think that there is a particular need to turn this into a politics of order. I'm sure I won't do that anymore. At the same time, I would like to respond to some of the points that have been raised, and I would also like to add a few additions so that there are no comments in the air about a running matter that, let us say, needs to be supplemented. Thank you very much, Mr President, for this truly exemplary preparatory work, and thank you for presenting the bill in detail. Indeed, this is a refreshing spot here, even before the Parliament was established in 2018, but I think, even if we look at the past decade, that such a detailed and carefully prepared bill will be presented to the Parliament, indeed after the proper negotiations have been carried out and with the involvement of all those involved. Therefore, I thank Mr President very much for his work and thank you for all the work that has been done in this preparation, and I think that this will make a great contribution to the tone of this debate. I very much hope that there will be full consensus on the parliamentary vote on this proposal. Of course, I can tell you that the LMP faction has received the materials in advance, and will support the opportunity to negotiate, we consider it a very important, well prepared, well-written and codified proposal, and we will therefore support it. We are also very pleased, and this has already been mentioned, that this proposal reflects on the problems that are emerging in practice, that it is trying to deal with a number of them, and, as we see here in the text of the law, this will be appropriate. Obviously, we'll see if the practice can apply the law well, but that's obviously another matter. With regard to the text of the law, I think it is very, very forward-looking. And thank you, Mr President, for your thoughts, of which I would like to repeat only a few. I myself live in Pécs, in Baranya County, right, the culture of this region is fundamentally defined by the nationalities living there, so I can live with this issue. I can also see, by the way, the problems that my fellow Member Brenner Koloman has been talking about, the problems of small settlements, the challenge of preserving everyone's own mother tongue, culture, and traditions, so that someone not only, say, in his name, remains in memory of a particular nationality, but can live on it, carry on and inherit this culture and tradition; I consider this very, very important. And by the way, I'm going to advance on our support for the proposal that Brenner Koloman was talking about, but obviously we're going to have a proper debate about it. I would therefore like to reiterate the thoughts that I think are very important. Nationalities in Hungary are state-creating factors. I think it is very important to say this, referring to the thoughts of Mr Secretary of State and of some of my fellow Members, that must be said here in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament, especially because we see that unfortunately in the European Union, European values here, European values there, this is not evident everywhere. I think we should repeat this as often as possible so that they may hear it elsewhere. I also consider it very important that nationalities have the right to defend their identity, to use their mother tongue, to cultivate their culture. These are also ideas that we should always underline, that there is a complete national political consensus in Hungary today, that these rights must be recognised, and that with this consensus, let us say, we can set an example aside from the political differences that exist between ourselves, I think, and unfortunately we must set an example for European policy. At the same time, and I do not want to be a buzzkill, but I think that when we talk about these issues, we should even draw attention to these issues with bad examples or challenges ahead of us, and to the problems that still call for solutions. Mr President and also Mr State Secretary reiterated the very important idea that Hungary protects national minorities. I think it is clearly not only the state, but all of us, in whatever way we deal with public life. And that we have work to do in this respect, we have a task and we have a challenge, and I would like to support it with a symbolic example, which unfortunately happened in January this year. I think that those of us in this room know this shocking example, when, in the programme block entitled Ship's Log, launched by the Petőfi Literature Agency, a programme entitled "Gum Room" could be heard by the insidious, hateful thoughts about German nationality, all in a public programme funded by public funds. [[Miklós Soltész: They have been punished!]] I think it is right that these statements have caused very widespread outrage. I think, in addition to the outrage and the consequences, I have to say that there have not been the right consequences in this regard. So, in addition to the fact that many people have expressed that this is unacceptable, and even if these thoughts are not on public money, even if they are not on a public programme, we here, with a number of fellow Members, were convinced that this issue would continue to cry out after criminal consequences, because we believe that Hungary should protect the nationalities living here. When such outrageous statements are made, I think that there is no other way than to act together with the greatest rigour of the law towards justice, so that it is clear to everyone: this is not acceptable in Hungary. In this connection, together with my fellow Member Brenner Koloman, my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, and the already mentioned Schwarcz-Kiefer Patrik Baranya County Municipal Representative, we filed a criminal complaint against an unknown unsub, including a crime of incitement to the community. However, we have received a recent feedback that this investigation has not yet been launched, it has been rejected, but I can say this, and again I can say that we take seriously the fact that national minorities are entitled to protection. We will not leave this matter alone, so we will use a supplementary report, and until then we will use all the means, all the legal means, to ensure that those who have been involved in this happening will be punished in this respect. [[17.50]] I think it is very, very important, and it is so important that I do not go into party politics right now, that this matter has a political implications, because one of the important roles in the supervision of this programme is an official associated with a certain party, a party of government. I think that it is also important that if such a mistake within a given community, such an unacceptable misdemeanor, does not only have criminal, but also political consequences. This can also send a message from a political community that we all mean the thoughts that we say. I very much hope that these consequences will come. I'd like to refer to one more thing. Several of my fellow Members mentioned it, Mr Secretary of State spoke very much about it, and the European Union was also critical of the fact that the European Union is operating on very important principles, and unfortunately, even now, in 2020, we see an example of the fact that European Union, very high-ranking, senior official politicians are able to make very shameful, xenophobic statements and we can list examples. In particular, Hungarian communities living across the border have suffered a lot of such outrageous statements, and otherwise also other types of disenfranchisement and limitation of rights. This was an ectant example of Klaus Iohannis, the President of Romania, making this completely unacceptable, outrageous statement. Otherwise, other earlier statements, such as those related to the use of the Szekler flag, were quite terrifying, hate - inspiring and frightening. And here I must argue with Congressman Arato. Unfortunately, we can see that the European Union is not sufficiently sensitive to such outrageous statements. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I'm glad we agree on that. So I think that these are processes that we should be able to control together, just like the previous example, and this is not a particular governing party and, in some respects, the country, let us say, the governing party representing the European decision-making process, but I think that it is also the task of all opposition parties, for example, to act effectively, in accordance with our own options, in order for the European Union to notice these outrageous statements, to see the European political elite and to do everything to prevent this from continuing, because this is totally unacceptable. I'd like to refer to one more thing. I do not want to get too distracted from the original proposal, but I believe that if we deal with these problems in a system, and if we were thinking, let us say, in a nation, that the Carpathian Basin is a cultural, environmental, social and historical region, then I would also refer to the European Citizens' Initiative for the development of national regions for a few reasons. I'm going to advertise it here in Parliament this week on the little sign on my laptop. Indeed, the signing deadline expires at midnight today. Even though we know that we already have a million signatures on paper and online, fortunately, we need to know that there is a lot more to collect here than a million, so we need to collect reserves. Therefore, I urge everyone who can do so to take a minute to do so on the irdala.hu platform until midnight today, and, if possible, try to ask everyone to do so on social media or in any other way. I can also say that a deadline expires today, but it is very, very important that the Szekler National Council has asked for an initial deadline extension, given that we know that a pandemic has also reached the European Union and that due to objective circumstances it has become impossible to collect signatures. In this regard, I believe that we have good reason to trust that this collection will be extended for a number of months, and then the important point that we will be able to make up for is that in the seven countries there is a need for quota to be mandatory for the European Commission to address this proposal. I think that we will all have a responsibility in this, too, and we have done so on our own channels, and I myself and the leaders of my party have written a letter to the President of the European Commission, we have written a letter to all the leaders of the European Parliament, and we have also asked the European Green Party family, which has always supported the matter, to support it and to place it, so to say, pressure on the European Commission, to extend the deadlines in this respect. Similarly, as this bill, which lies before us, thanks to its exemplary preparation, I am very confident that it will be surrounded by a complete consensus and that we will be able to vote unanimously on this; it could also be a case, the initiative for national regions, launched by the Székely National Council, that could be a real national issue. I myself presented this proposal to the Parliament in February this year, and it was an honour for me, as opposition representatives, that opposition and pro-government factions joined the proposal as presenters, and the Parliament unanimously adopted it by 158 votes in favour. I believe that this year, a hundred years after the outrageous Trianon dictatorship, it was a very, very important gesture that the proposal, without a vote against and abstention, could be accepted together, and then, in this signature-gathering hair, in difficult circumstances, during a pandemic, apparently, a party political affiliation, aside from sympathy, many public figures, athletes and artists joined in this way, and I believe that this is one of the most honorable, most beautiful commemorations of this year, the most beautiful reaction on the 100-year anniversary of the Trianon dictatorship, on the 100-year anniversary of the Trianon disgrace, the most beautiful example of the fact that he can function on the party policy completely aside is a kind of national consensus, and the Hungarian nation has shown the power of cooperation. I very much hope that, in the context of this bill, when it comes to the vote, we will be able to show this unity, and in this way we will be able to accept this proposal by consensus. On the part of the LMP faction, I can confirm that we will, of course, support it and thank you once again for the work of everyone involved in this preparation. Thank you.
u2020-05-07-113	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There will now be further speeches. First of all, I give the floor to Mr József Szolga, a Croatian ethnic advocate, who made a written statement about his intention to speak. You have the floor.
u2020-05-07-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Mr President, Poštovani Dome! Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is a measure of a state's democratic set-up and ethnicity policy as to the form in which it interacts with indigenous ethnic groups living in a minority through its legal system. In commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship, it is particularly important for the members of the European Union and neighbouring states to see that Hungary respects the freedom and culture, religious traditions and guarantees their enforcement by constitutional means. It can be said that in Hungary's history it is important that the highest representative body regulates the situation of nationalities. Even after the revolution of 1848, the first Parliament of the People's Congress sought legal settlement of relations, and in the year after the settlement the law adopted on equality of nationality was the next milestone. As a result of the change of regime, democratic traditions were followed by the first freely elected Parliament, which began its work 30 years ago. After 45 years of occupation and communist dictatorship, the task was to establish democratic institutions, establish the foundations of a market economy and ensure freedoms. In this way, the law on the rights of national and ethnic minorities, which provided the framework for nationality identity, local government and cultural autonomy, could be created in an all-party agreement. A new era began with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, of which XXIX. It states that nationalities in the country are governed by a fundamental law on state-making factors and their rights. This is the highest level of regulation guaranteeing that Hungary is the home of all nationalities, and the state proves its diligence towards the members of the nation. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. By adopting a law, Hungary has clearly protected its nationalities, has ensured the care of their culture, the use of their mother tongue, education and use of their own language, participation in public life, the extension of cultural autonomy, the self-management of communities, the right to self-government. The 13 recognized nationalities, as part of the Hungarian political community, have been able to form their local governments and celebrate the 25 years of self-government for the 7th time in the last year. [[18.00]] For the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the closure of the cycle and the anniversary of the Jubilee created an appropriate opportunity for reckoning. The committee representing nationalities has prepared a proposal for an amendment concerning the interests and rights of the Community in relation to certain provisions of the existing law on the rights of nationalities. Dear Parliament, The T/10303. The form of the bill was preceded by a broad consultation. The Supervisory Sub-Committee set up at the beginning of the parliamentary term, which monitored the implementation of the Nek Act, its social and economic impact and the deregulation process, made comments. A working group of members of the Committee has prepared a written proposal. In drawing up the draft, the initiatives of the Deputy Ombudsman for Nationality, representative representatives and national authorities were taken into account. Proposals for a solution resulting from different interpretations of the law of government offices and comments from ministries have been incorporated. It is regrettable that some press organisations simply comment on the proposal that the committee of nationalities has hit the ethnobiznis. This simplification must also be clearly rejected on my part. The norm goes beyond that. The aim was to improve the self-management capacity of existing communities. The text-focusing amendments greatly contribute to the uniform application of the law. The proposal also contains a series of substantive amendments, resulting in new substantive rules. Of course, diverging opinions have also been expressed due to the diversity of indigenous populations and their level of internal social organisation. No more points could have reached the legislative wording. The participants in the Hungarian political community have also come up with several proposals, such as the election results of the national minority self-government or possibly their own failure to exercise certain powers of the local government, such as the establishment of organisational and operational rules, which I think is nonsense for a municipality. This is linked to the so-called democracy package for drawing up the minority list in the parliamentary electoral procedure. Another suggestion is that the dialect would be given more emphasis on the wording of the law in the use of declared mother tongues and in the teaching of languages. The dialects are the key to the future of the minority. For this reason, dialects and the maintenance of landscape languages should be put first in ethnic policy, in social actions related to nationality. They are reflected in the old place of origin in the motherland, but at the same time the contacts, the effects that one or another minority community has experienced. Language and culture can be lived in smaller local communities. The individual embraces his identity through culture and the so-called mother tongue. The cultural identity of each community is represented by local languages, dialects. Linguistic standardism facilitates communication between dialects and helps learn that language as a foreign language. Thus, the landscape language and local culture of one or other communities of nationalities are a pledge of the future of nationality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I note here and draw attention to the fact that the European Union's citizens' initiative, the cohesion policy for equality of regions and the sustainability of regional cultures are aimed at strengthening the identity and culture of the regions inhabited by individual nationalities, and I urge and call on my fellow citizens today to sign it, irdala.hu. Dear House, In the future, I would like to highlight some of the regulatory areas that are of particular importance to the nationality community from the Commission's proposal. Based on the results of the census, more rights will be added. In settlements with no previous nationality self-governments, special regulations are being made for new municipalities that can be formed in the next general elections, with the aim of obtaining real community self-government rights. The rules on nationality public education will be clarified, and the assets of these institutions will be transferred to the maintenance property of the national minority, which I personally support. In the event of taking over a cultural task, I think that in the future it should be considered that, like the assets of public education institutions, the assets of cultural institutions should be transferred to the national maintenance unit, and that the workers carry out their duties in the context of an employment relationship, like those of the state institutions and the institutions of the local authorities, which is currently before this House. The relationship between local self-governments and local authorities in terms of ensuring operating conditions will be clarified, and the duties of the agencies and the role of notaries will finally be clarified. The procedure for making a declaration on the right of consent and the question of appeal will be clarified. Detail regulation will be introduced to structure and transparency of the organisational and operational regulations of the municipalities. The deadline for the meeting is set, the order of the meeting, and the public hearing will be replaced as a clear board meeting. The anomaly is dissolved in respect of the termination of the representative's mandate or the privileges during the period between the election date and the inaugural meeting. A change in social relations within the Community is followed by a provision which provides for the establishment and maintenance of social services institutions subject to conditions. I stress that this was a bottom-up initiative. EU provisions on the processing of personal data, which have so far been lacking in legislation, are added. It can be said from the members of the submitting committee that the proposal does not complete the substantive work. In our view, based on the experience of national authorities, standards simplifying farming activities and support rules for local government can be developed in the future. Dear Parliament, The T/10303. The proposal shows the consensus of the 13 indigenous nationalities. Most of the provisions have been formulated on the basis of good practice, the principle of a good solution. As a member of the committee representing the Hungarian nationalities, I would like to ask you to support the draft bill amending the committee. Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti.
u2020-05-07-115	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, came to the following comment. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-07-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Zsolt Molnár missed the sentiment in my comment. I was thinking that both the Member and the advocates and the speakers and the honourable House may have felt the weight and task of the last six years and the meaning of this fundamental law, which is indeed a serious and fantastic work behind us. And, as Mr Spokesman has just said, which comes from this law, it is emotionally difficult to perform. But if you have missed the sentiment of Zsolt Molnár who is not here, you will have it now, but above all, I would like to respond very briefly to Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. This is relatively difficult, because it has a cool place here in Parliament, but I would respond briefly. First: Hungary supports small settlements in every way we can, through the Hungarian village programme, through economic development programmes and through many things. If you didn't happen to meet this, and you don't think it's right, I'm very sorry. A very large majority of rural people thank and take advantage of it and make good use of it. However, the fact that there are no regional programmes in Hungary, especially programmes involving nationalities, shows that it is completely uninformed on this issue. Even though he was not the president of the German minority self-government for many years, he is a member or an administrative director, but he does not know, for example, that we have launched an economic development programme with Slovenians, involving the nationalities of the two countries together in diplomatic cooperation, and that is the result of a wonderful programme for which there are no examples of such an extent and such a message in Europe. [[18.10]] So if someone misses that, you need to get a little more information before you say anything. Zsolt Molnár. You ran the Balliberal Government, even though he wasn't here. First of all, after 2010, in 2011, many things had to be changed in the national minority law, because the ethno-biznis that we are now preventing has grown beneath you, but you have not dealt with it. Second, without permission, the establishment, operation, reception of social institutions... well, this is something the world has never heard of. I understand and I know that the MSZP's coalition organization, party or mayor in Budapest doesn't care whether there is a permit or not, he can't lead or lead an elderly home. We see what happens, unfortunately, on Pesti Road. But I'd still warn anyone to set up or take over a social institution without a permit. I don't know where these ideas come from in front of the National Assembly. But let me also add that when the socialists and liberals sat on the government, and I am obviously not saying this to Mr László Keresztes, because he was not among them, there was a large number of Parliaments, there was a much larger Parliament, more than one and a half times that Parliament is now. And then they didn't even think about introducing either the advocate system or the preferential quota system, so that representatives of nationalities could sit here among us. Why didn't they? We had two-thirds of them, and otherwise we would have supported them. They didn't even think about it. Now, I think that any of your suggestions on this matter are untrue. The following: Mr Zsolt Molnár said that he was prepared for MSZP, that although the free textbook would be common, it would not only appear in the minority law. We need a little more information, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a disaster. That's how they go out to decorate, that's how they go out in front of people, and they lie about things that aren't true, they chat and they say things that aren't true. Well, it's in the Public Education Act. Oh, you didn't like the vote? Well, that's your crime. Oh, the fact that budget laws aren't voted for by the opposition, no matter what good solutions we bring, it's your fault. They won't do it! However, the fact that this is now included in this fundamental law is an additional guarantee to nationalities. This is a message to the neighbouring countries. It is a message to the European Union that ethnic communities, which maintain schools and kindergartens, will be helped in all possible ways. I will just add quietly to expand the world view of Zsolt Molnár: the 2019-20, so in the current academic year the textbooks are free of charge until 1-9, and from the autumn of 2020 the textbooks will be free of charge in all the years of public education. Good morning, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. Mr Gergely Arató, Congressman, criticized why we were handing over the property. Honourable Member, because we are the political community, as opposed to you, who are honest and well treated by those who are good for it, we give the wealth to them because they are good farmers, not to take it away, as your historical past shows, and then, when they came to power, they did not even try to return to the old rightful owners what they had taken back then. In parentheses, that's all it takes to raise you. By the way, why are we giving it to you? Because they're good farmers. Why are we giving it to him? Because a school of their own, which they dared to take on for the education and education of 10, 20, 100 or more children, it is justified that, where they do so, they should be their own. You will still have the support, Congressman, to renovate it. The nationalities see this. Of course, it would be very good for the left-wing media to come out sometimes for such a handover, for the handover of such renovations, because then they could convey the opportunities that we offer to nationalities, thereby telling the leaders of the neighbouring countries that we share a common task, we have a shared responsibility, here and they in their country. The fact that you continue to support ethnobiznis, I do not fully understand your suggestion. But what was completely outrageous and incomprehensible to me, Mr Arató, I would also ask you to follow the Roma nationality, the Gypsy nationality - what is it that they are not fit to take on national governments? Follow them and say that what you said is not true. Because you used those words. Since 1993, it doesn't matter what kind of government it was, no one's ever dared to make such a suggestion. No one's ever done that before. I'm glad you came down here and responded to it, and you're trying to protect your uncompromising sentences. You insulted public education, criticized the support. You, honourable Member, were Secretary of State for Education at the time. Now, I don't want to talk about how much fun you've been talking about the terrible lives of Jewish people when you and Zuschlag laughed in front of the House of Terror, but let me tell you, as a figure, that 645 billion forints is now more support for public education. I'm sorry, you can criticize us, you can criticize the amount of support, but if you criticize us, where will you place your government, your actions? Well, in support, it was pathetic compared to that. When he said he claimed that the signature collectors of Minority SafePack had not submitted their application, their proposal, he said half-truth. It has not been submitted, honourable Member, because Juncker and his associates have said that they will not negotiate this. They said they wouldn't deal with it, they didn't care. Those who organised this whole collection of signatures said that they would thank you very much and then try to do so with the next Commission. That's right. You don't want to protect the indefensible. You do not want to protect people who have done nothing for national minorities here in Europe. For you, yes, but nothing for national minorities. And if you have so much respect for the ethnic advocates and the President, you will at least try to remember the name of the committee. Because there is no such thing as a national minority committee; there is a committee of Hungarian ethnicities in this Parliament, its members through Mr President, through the Member, the German ethnicities and their members are the advocates present here. At least honor them by learning their names. Congressman László Keresztes, you're right. I'll say it this way. What you're referring to is unacceptable. That radio program you're referring to. You know, it hurt us, too, especially after we remembered with Congressman, the German nationalities, the anniversary of their abduction. For the anniversary that the Bolsheviks were responsible for. Finally, we could have ended the horrors of World War II, and then the Communists gave a great deal to the Germans, who couldn't do anything about it. That's why it hurt us even more. So I apologized personally and wrote them a letter. So the PIM, director of the Petőfi Literary Museum, apologized. Maybe that wasn't the way to do it, but he apologized. Young men who have done this in a thoughtless and very disastrous way are no longer included in these programmes. [[18.20]] You know, there is one difference, and I do not want to hurt you, honourable Member, that it would be good, and it would be very good to be measured on the same level when similar things happen in their own political community, half or fully, in their political community. Just, you know, the difference is that when you were here in Parliament a few years ago, you could say that you had to list Jewish representatives, and this Member who said that, Márton Gyöngyösi, didn't disappear from political life, but what did he get as a reward? He became a representative of the European Union. So all we ask is that if we are to apologize or express our opinion, as I am personally, that such a manifestation is totally unacceptable, no matter what day of the year someone says, I add, even more close to the anniversary that is most painful for the German community in Hungary, then you should also be so clear. And let them be so clear when they cooperate many times within the opposition, and there is a faction leader, party president, Peter James, whose political and other past is linked to nothing but one of the outstanding speakers of hatred against Gypsyism. If you would be so kind as to measure by the same standards. Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Speaker! Ladies and Gentlemen, Speakers of Parliament! I apologise for the fact that, when we talk about these things, we have to talk about such a completely decent, fantastic work, the work that has been carried out over the past years, and the work that has helped the future, but I regret that some of the opposition's representatives have tried to spice this up, I think, with political attacks that I think are unworthy of. Even if all of the opposition parties say they support this law. Let's just say it would be incomprehensible why not. But still, I apologize for having to respond to this, because on behalf of the government, I can't listen to statements that are made here, and then those who claim to do so will squirt me out of Parliament in a minute, or partly squirt me out, because some of them are here. Thank you for your attention. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-07-117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2020-05-07-118	Thank you very much. Dear House, I owe you my apologies for two reasons. One is that I did say the name of the committee inexactly, so I apologize for that. The other is that I gave Mr State Secretary the opportunity to bring this otherwise professional and worthy debate down to the standard of political debate in a vile and lying speech. This is not what national minorities deserve, Mr. Secretary of State, but if they have already done so, they will get the answer they deserve. You're not telling the truth when you quote my words. That is not what I said, but I said that the minority self-government system is not suitable for addressing Roma problems, according to many Roma. That's all I said, I still think so. This question should be considered. On the other hand, I have not claimed anything about what the Roma are or are not fit to do, and I have claimed that this system is not suitable for them by many. I'll keep that up. Secondly, Mr Secretary, although this does not belong here at all, it has brought here an earlier media lie. I would also like to state here and make it clear that I did not hear Mr Zuschlag's ominous statement, I was at the event, but the recording on which we stood side by side was taken at another time at the same event. This is not very important in this regard, but if you thought it was important to insult me personally, then I wanted to answer that too. Finally, it will lead to a professional question further away, and I will gladly undertake a debate on this either with you or with the Secretary of State of Rétvári, which has been organised for this purpose, in any form. The truth is that the numbers you say about funding public education are only part of the truth, and you forget to mention that most of the public education was financed by the municipalities, and you took that money away from the municipalities when the task was taken away. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-119	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman László Keresztes will now have the floor in a normal time frame.
u2020-05-07-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since you've put the glove here, Secretary of State, I'm not going to wear it, because I don't think it's worthy of this proposal, but I still have to respond in a rejoinder. I'm not here to protect the Jobbik faction, I'm the faction leader of the LMP faction, but it's as if Brenner Koloman didn't fully understand what Brenner Koloman said about the difficult situation of small settlements. Many of the nationalities in Hungary live in small settlements. And we know that these settlements, especially in peripheral areas, are in a much more difficult situation than cities or larger villages. You mentioned the program "Hungarian villages." I am not going to go into a regional development and rural development debate, but I think we can agree that this is an important programme, a symbolic programme, a deficit substitute, but unfortunately there are no budgetary resources behind it, so much budgetary resources that they can really stop the decade-old, unfortunately decades-long process that can be achieved in the process of emigration from villages. I'm from Baranyai, I know the entire area of Baranya very well, and the entire South Transdanubian region, I go to the villages of Baranya, and it's really awful to see these beautiful villages of the East Baranya Swabian village, the depopulated villages where the population gets old, the young people wander away, and there are these wonderful, authentic houses with a broken roof, so that a tree grows out of it. And I think that is what Congressman Brenner Koloman was thinking, and there should also be a national consensus on this, that an appropriate budgetary resource should be placed next to the Hungarian village programme, so that it can really explain its effects. I'll give you just one example: I think it's quite clear that there is a livelihood here, which is the number one source of emigration, the impossibility of access to work, and here the fact that there is no proper public services available, there is no transport system, and the rest. I will give you just one example: this year, the Hungarian village program has a budget of 450 kilometers of lower road network, and today in Hungary 17 thousand kilometers of road renovation awaits the immediate solution. So these are the wrong and the wrong categories of roads. So I say that it is an important programme, a good direction, but unfortunately the Hungarian villages are still being destroyed. There are shocking demographic indicators, and this is a tragedy. The entire Hungarian society will suffer a loss that will be irreplaceable later. And, by the way, obviously, I don't want to be unfair, it didn't start at your time, but unfortunately, there aren't enough government measures after 2010 to stop these processes. I would like to point out one more thing: former Commissioner Juncker's name has come up. Well, whose commissioner was it, Secretary of State, who voted for the Juncker Committee? [[László Szászfalvi: Well, Viktor Orbán is not!]] But, but he voted for it, Fidesz's delegation to the European Parliament voted for it, he was a pro-president, and the Group of the Greens voted against it. So Juncker was basically a pro-ethnic, pro-ethnic commissioner. I'm glad that when they're so critical in hindsight, we didn't vote for the Juncker Committee when it was elected. It would be very good, I am pleased, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a very strong national consensus, whether we say, on the territorial autonomy of Szeklerland, but it would be very good to hear that in European politics Fidesz politicians would dare to say the word and dare to stand up there for such matters as autonomy in Szeklerland. I think autonomy is a very good European example. There are many places where we see operational territorial autonomy, with which practice proves that in a given autonomous area, not only the dominant nationality living there is good, but also from an economic point of view, if there is this kind of self-determination, but also the minorities who live there and can be interpreted there. And we can say that the Szeklery is the only national minority living in a large block in Europe who has not yet received this right that they deserve. I think that this is a betrayal of the promise of European Union integration. And from this point of view, we have always formulated and formulated very hard criticisms in European politics at a time when there is a stand for the rights of national minorities, and we must stand up for it so that interests can be enforced, and even when such outrageous statements are made. So I would like the politicians of Fidesz to be braver, and they would dare, in Brussels, not to send a message to Brussels, but also to fight in Brussels for the rights of Hungarians living across the border. [[18.30]] In terms of what we have referred to here in relation to the outrageous statements made in the Ship's Log programme, I agree that there is no double standard here. So from my point of view, they have experienced and will experience in the future, as well as from the LMP faction, that we are judged by an outrageous statement not based on who said it, but on the fact that if it is unacceptable in itself, then we condemn it. We're consistent in that. In terms of that, I think I have no reason to defend myself, and I don't even need to know who I am as a political ally. So far, the LMP has been admitted to the National Assembly on its own three times, and I myself, at the local level, the LMP in Pécs has always won the mandate of local government representatives. There are many cases in which we agree with one or another opposition faction, and these cooperations are typically based on these issues among the opposition factions, the cases in which we agree, and when it is important that we cooperate on a case, so that we can better represent the interests of the Hungarian nation, if appropriate. But this is a misdirection, Mr State Secretary, to the public, that they are constantly plotting such opposition coalitions, and that they are trying to project a problem or error from one or another opposition party to others. This is, though, a legitimate political catch, but it is still basically a lie. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-121	Thank you, Congressman. Now it will be possible to make two-minute comments. I would ask my fellow Members to maintain the dignity of this bill, not to engage in party political debates, not to have the advocates leave this Chamber today with a bad taste of mouth. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész in two minutes.
u2020-05-07-122	Thank you. I continue, and with this I started my previous comment, following the request of the President, I would just like to say to Mr Gergely Arató that they are not ethnic minorities, but ethnicities in Hungary. So, the word "the minority" is no longer in Hungarian use, in Hungarian laws, in Hungarian case law, and precisely because they are not a small person, but parts of the nation, parts of the nation on whom we rely, respect them, love them, and give them all the opportunity to remain. Mr László Keresztes: I think we fully agree on the need to support rural life. However, more than zero is the HUF 150 billion, which is in the program of the Hungarian village. Well, it's more than that. So far, no one has started this, no one has dealt with the Hungarian villages to this extent, not to mention that when we agree with the Hungarian nationalities in the annual budget, and then we write out the subsidies, a large part of them also goes to the villages where you live, Baranya, and there are schools, churches, crosses, community houses, village houses and many things we are fixing. And you can experience this by looking around at how much of this joint work is trying to make it beautiful and from the other side, to preserve the lives of these villages. I think we're totally thinking about this together. Let me make a correction. First of all, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán did not support, we did not support, and there are relatively few parties or party alliances in European politics that, by the way, are Hungarians from across borders, whether from Transcarpathia [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , even from Southland, so that they can represent the community where they live in the European Union. I didn't really see anything like that. Therefore, criticism towards us in this regard is relatively difficult to express. Thank you.
u2020-05-07-123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2020-05-07-124	Thank you very much. We rarely allow this to happen, but I would now like to express my agreement with the Secretary of State: I have indeed used this term poorly, but I agree with you on the intention and the thought, and I will pay more attention to it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-125	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi in two minutes.
u2020-05-07-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to push the string any further, and I don't want to put too much pressure on the current bill, so I just want to respond in one sentence to the words of László Keresztes, with whom I agree and have agreed on a lot of things so far, I hope that it will continue to be so. As far as President Juncker is concerned, what I can tell you is that if there's been someone in the last few years who's how to say it? He criticized his work as President of the Commission, but it was Viktor Orbán. The other: Hungarian villages and road construction in small settlements. I just want one sentence, because it is also a very far-reaching topic, of course. Four years ago, we started renovating small rural roads from Hungarian sources again, for many years, for at least 15-16 years in Hungary, only one penny from Hungarian sources has not been refurbished by the three, four, five-digit roads, with which I fully agree that it should be done. With regard to the collection of signatures in relation to national regions, I say that we should not try to achieve one million signatures, but that gives us new tasks. If we say that 60 million people from indigenous national communities live in the territory of the European Union, then it is a shame and a shame that this is the way to deal with it. So we need much bigger work here, much more cooperation and institutionalized cooperation. Gergely Arató, my fellow Member, was only very silently and briefly: we nationalised the educational institutions, but the debts of the municipalities of HUF 1200 billion, the majority of which remained on the shoulders of the institutions, were paid by the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, which had to be accumulated by these municipalities because of the underfunding of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-07-127	Thank you, Congressman. We are in a difficult situation because the two-minute circles are over, so Congressman Lóránt Keresztes cannot comment in two minutes. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] , but it indicates that you will speak in a normal time frame. But I must also ask Congressman Szászfalvi... (To signal:) He doesn't want to comment, all right, then he will be deleted. Then Congressman László Keresztes has the floor in a normal time frame.
u2020-05-07-128	Thank you. Excuse me, Mr. President, I promise I'll be in a minute. There was indeed criticism of Juncker, regardless of the fact that he was put into power, and at the time the greens voted against him. With regard to the development of small villages and the lower road network, I always draw attention to the fact that payments are actually being made, renovations are being made, but when we look every year at how the proportion of roads that are wrong and that are not in the right category is getting worse. So we're not going to the solution, it's going to get worse. We should spend a lot more money on this. I criticize you because, while you talk about the importance of rural development, these are the factors that are getting worse, so the situation is not getting better, it is getting worse. Look at the official statistics, believe me that the infrastructure elements supplying the countryside are in a worse state, and from the other side they intend to spend a thousand billion forints on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which you could not in any way justify from the Hungarian national interests. That's all I wanted to contribute to this. I no longer wish to have a party political debate, because it is an extremely important bill, and I would also like it to be possible for us to conclude this debate with a statement or at least to go towards closure, so that we can agree on a very, very well prepared bill on this issue, and there is every chance that we will be able to adopt it together with a unanimous decision. Thank you.
u2020-05-07-129	Thank you, Congressman. I have to ask Mr Ritter Imre, a speaker, if you would like to comment now, because there is still a two-minute comment, or you will just want to make a final comment, or both times. [[Ritter Imre: I think I should have said something sooner or tried to say something, now I'll wait for the two-minute one.]] All right, thank you very much. Then I'll give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész in two minutes.
u2020-05-07-130	Only one sentence: We have a brilliant relationship with Serbia, we love the Serbian community, the railway helps them too. Thank you very much for letting me draw your attention to this.
u2020-05-07-131	Thank you. Then there is no further intention of commenting, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre. [[18.40]]
u2020-05-07-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would also like to thank all those who have left, for the very positive opinions on the preparation and submission of the bill on behalf of all of us, and let me just add a little additional self-criticism that, in spite of our attempts to achieve the widest possible level of consultation, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has not been consulted, so President Attila Péterfalvi sent a comment on the bill the day before yesterday. We looked at this with the Deputy State Secretary and the other day and sent back our amendment proposal, to which President Attila Péterfalvi wrote back yesterday that Mr President! Following comments made by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, T/10303. I agree with the proposed amendment to the draft law on the rights of nationalities, which corresponds to the comments made by the authority on the subject of data protection. Thank you for your action and cooperation on the amending proposal. So I think hopefully we managed to settle this missed consultation very quickly. About nationality law and regulations, about nationality at all, if you say anything, who knows the situation of the 13 nationalities in Hungary at some level, it is always very careful, because it is almost impossible to buy an area and make a statement that is at the same time fully relevant to all 13 nationalities in one thing, and in every respect it would be the truth and the whole truth, this must be added. So we do not think, despite all the positive signs and praises that we have now done everything and certainly the best and perfect solution in the national rights law, I have said this in advance, and we have missed a lot of things, but what we have done is that we have tried to be as careful as possible to get the 13 nationalities to agree on it in the first place. Not because we are so incompatible, just that each nationality has a different number, culture, mentality, tradition, territorial location, institutional network, its structure. It is difficult to reconcile these three in itself, and that is why the various amendments initiated by a number of nationalities are also included in this bill, and there are some that we have not yet been able to bring it to the House at all. Obviously, to give just one example, it has also been suggested that cultural institutions, for example, cultural institutions, cultural institutions with minority self-preservation, should also have a transfer of assets instead of property management rights, but we ourselves have said that this should be more circumstantial, because in a public educational institution the activity, the number of children and everything else are more objectively tangible, controllable, provide much more security and guarantee than a cultural institution. Here I would like to discuss what Congressman Gergely Arató said about the transfer of wealth. In itself, the acquisition of the right of maintenance or the right of trustee, in particular the right of ownership, is not only an option, but a huge responsibility, and raises a series of questions about the future that are absolutely meaty. Among other things, the continuous renovation, expansion, proper maintenance of these institutions, which is obviously, if we take over the institutions and are responsible, this cannot be done without guarantees. The experience of the last two years shows that, on the one hand, even where there is a perfectly good cooperation between the local government and the local minority self-government, and the institution is in the maintenance of the local minority self-government, but in the case of renovations, there are a lot of administrative problems and other problems that everything requires ownership. In cases where the relationship between the municipal self-government and the maintenance minority self-government is not perfect due to any personal or other issue, it can simply prevent, as owner, all renovations, all the things necessary for normal operation, without any possibility for the maintenance minority self-government to influence them. So it creates a situation where, if, where appropriate, the national minority self-government wishes to bring the institution into a better state with different ethnicity, foundation, motherland, any other support, and, where appropriate, it cannot do so, because the owner does not give his consent, or only gives his consent under conditions that are unworthy. I would like to point out that, of course, in connection with the increased support and the expansion of new legal and other opportunities, education and cultural autonomy, we have been in a situation where we have had significant extra tasks, which we have not previously had or only had individual examples of in some settlements. It is not for nothing that we started in 2016 to set up a pedagogical methodological centre coordinating, collaborating and assisting the activities of all nationalities in this way, which helps the work of local and even national institutions, not only in educational pedagogical matters, but in all other matters involving maintenance, from public procurement to renovations. In this, I think that this methodological centre is also very important, because it has helped us, for example, to develop, introduce and maintain the entire teaching scholarship system. So I think that we are trying to do this on the basis of the principle of gradualness, so that, in parallel with our opportunities, we can create the conditions for this to be done in a truly responsible and professional way, because, as Mr Secretary of State has said, we are talking about raising and educating more than 15,000 children. Let me also say in this connection, which has also been mentioned, that the institutions with the nationality of the local government and the state, church, foundation, other reservations, but education and education are as important to us as our own institutions. This is why all the steps, measures that we have taken from the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, of course in consultation with and in consultation with national national minority self-governments, have been extended, for example, to the three times increase of the minority pedagogue bonus, fourfold increase, and, by including the two new categories, to all educators or educators engaged in ethnic education, regardless of the fact that the minority self-government is reserved, state-reserved, ecclesiastical, foundation-reserved, precisely because those children, those children are as important to us as those who are in ethnic reserve. In the same way, the education of teachers, as well as the education of national minority educators, is included in the education of all national minority teachers, and there is no limit to the contract of teachers' students that they can only be held by national governments or any other restrictions. [[18.50]] They can go to any institution where ethnic education is being taught and where they are employed as ethnic educators. The only condition we had was to place them in Hungary and as ethnic educators, in an institution that teaches ethnic education and education. So, again, I can say now for the future, and I am pleased to say that in the debate on the budget of two years ago, I have told you on three consecutive days about the nationality educator's survey that we have done for all nationalities, all nationalities, all educational forms and all secondary schools that we have started in early March, and I can now say that we have, about a week, a week and a half ago, practically a hundred percent data base, despite the coronal virus epidemic and all other difficulties, more than 500 of all primary and secondary schools in the country where education for any nationality is taking place. This is what we want to build the entire education of national education in the future. For the first time, we will have data that will tell us exactly what kind of ethnic educators are, what degree, how many, how many are, how many are missing. So I think that the strategy, as I mentioned in my introduction, is, yes, our constitution is the law on the rights of nationalities, but the most important one is the Public Education Act. And we went with a comprehensive, thought-out strategy about a year and a half after the election of 14 which, I think, could cover the survival of Hungarian nationalities in the long term, if we can complete this program. And to do so, it is very important, of course, to amend today's law on the rights of nationalities. A bit back to what Zsolt Molnár said, that in the introductory exposé I practically read more of the law, I think that I think that the contents of the Constitution and the Preamble of the Nek Law, as Mr Keresztes said, cannot be said enough, because even those who hear it and often do, but a lot of people don't really think about what that means. So I think it's very well-defined, you have to quote it exactly when you're talking about it. And in law, I've highlighted a few things that I think are very important in some areas. I assumed that there would be interest at the end of the four-day session, and here before the weekend, and thank you all for the fact that, in particular, I believe that the issues raised were well-intentioned and, on occasion, to be further considered and further thought initiated. From the beginning, we have always sought that, although everyone obviously has political sympathy, individuality, opinion, values, but we represent our nationalities in Parliament, and it is in the primary and prior interest of all our nationalities, on the basis of which we make decisions and work, and from which we try to put, as far as possible, all the daily and other political battles that would prevent us from working effectively in the interests of our nationalities. Therefore, I do not wish to respond separately to the political proposals that did not necessarily concern today's bill. Even with regard to locality and the Roma issue, let me say that once again, the situation of all nationalities is different - small settlements in one way or another. Therefore, I say that I will always say about myself and the Germans, even President Ottó Heinek's absolute clear opinion, with which I think we all agreed at the assembly that first there should be a meaningful nationality life in a settlement, and if there is a meaningful nationality life, then there should be a minority self-government. And that is still true, and this solves what Mr.Gergely Arató suggested, that from talking about Germans again, Véménd, Sopron, Pilisvörösvár and Sárospatak 8-10-12 families may even move to a settlement, and they will indeed be Echte ethnicities there, but that doesn't mean that Véménd will go home this weekend and dance in its own dance group, the Pilisvörösvár will go home and play in its own orchestra, the Sárospataki will go home and sit on the vineyard. This makes them German nationalities, of course, but they have different costumes, different songs, different dances, and even though they are there, this settlement will not have national traditions, history or history. This does not rule out that if they come together there and make a ethnic association, they make a dance group, and they actually live a ethnic life, then, yes, I say that they are not indigenous to that settlement, but the world changes, and what they do in it, it is obviously legitimate to form a local government. But in our opinion, we can't turn this thing around to become a government first, and then we'll see if we can get something out of it. I think the vast majority of us agree on that. Katalin Langerné Victor and I have sat down on Roma affairs at least six times in the last six months, as well as personally in Budapest, but point On Véménd, for example, I also spoke to the new Roma president, János Agócs, and for example, the Roma community was one of the initiativers of the proposals, procedures, problems and other issues related to government agencies, since most of them have local minority self-governments, and they also have a large number of regularity checks and procedures for various reasons. So it was specifically in their interest that the whole topic was discussed at this level, and, of course, for all other nationalities who did so. I don't want to abuse anyone's patience anymore. I would really like to thank you on behalf of all of us for the fact that, despite the virus situation, there were a little more of us here today, but for us, the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities is indeed a holiday, and I think that this is also very important in this situation. With all due respect, from today's debate and from this general debate, I would like to ask you to take home the positive things first and go home with good Gefühl, with good impressions. I can promise that, of course, even in the time remaining for adoption, which may arise, such as the opinion of the Data Protection Commissioner, we will correct these. [[19.00]] Of course, I would like to thank everyone for their support, for their positive opinions, and I would also like to ask all the factions here that are no longer present to support the adoption of our bill on the rights of nationalities. Thank you so much for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmersamkeit!
u2020-05-07-133	Thank you, Mr Ritter Imre, for what has been said. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. There will now be a statement after the agenda, as there will be a speech in the line. László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Head of Group: our city wishes to give its speech after the agenda in the title of Pécs. You have the floor, Congressman, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-07-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, in this late hour, I would like to talk about a very, very important problem in relation to the situation of my city, my home, Pécs and the example of Pécs, but I can tell you that we are talking about a situation, a problem that affects not only Pécs, but almost every large rural city, but, in fact, every local government, even district. It is essentially a question of maintaining the system of public transport. We know that this is one of the most important public services, the financing method of which is not solved, and this is a huge burden for every city, every district, and at the capital level, a huge problem that is constantly being delayed by decision-makers. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent times that, instead of seeking a systemic solution, the government has taken a austerity measure that has made it more difficult to maintain this service. Specifically, in parallel with the rules on the use of business tax, the state system for supporting local public transport has been withdrawn, and this puts many cities, including the city of Pécs, in an almost impossible situation. In Pécs, however, a neurological point is the state of public transport. This usually came into the national press with scandals from cycle to cycle. Unfortunately, even in the socialist period before 2009, Pécs became known for the bus sales scandal, or it was used to make the news, and we can say that the real politicians responsible for this shameful corruption case have not been known since then. Fidesz's declaration in 2009 was cancelled. But the Fidesz city leadership, which came to power in 2009 and failed in 19 in 2009, also had a suspicion of corruption in relation to its own public transport, and here a bus-acquisition scandal finally caused the complaint. I myself had to press charges, and unfortunately, we have been waiting for years for the results of the investigation, and we have been waiting for years to find out who is responsible for this matter, who are the decision makers. We can rightly assume that politicians will be involved in this matter. But, overall, this city is in a situation where the city of Pécs is extremely indebted that a significant part of the current huge debt was due to a large-scale acquisition of buses, which, unfortunately, is now in a worse state of public transport than when it was purchased, while the city's debt has to be moaned by the people of Pécs and the municipality. In terms of funding, I can tell you that I have been a local government representative in Pécs for a long time that, unfortunately, because of the bad economic situation and the weak local economy, the city does not have the resources necessary to provide this very, very important public service, which, by the way, can be said to be a task at regional level. And we can say that the fears that arose after the election of the local government in October, that the government will see the opposition cities as enemies, in particular, have been confirmed, but I think that this government austerity measure also affects the pro-government-led cities. We can also say that I have already pointed out that the extremely difficult situation of Community transport in Pécs is in many respects due to the mistakes of the diverse majority of socialist and fidesz city leaders, but it should be added that there has always been a central set of problems arising from the legislative environment and the funding system. I would like to refer you right now to a government decision issued on 20 February 2019, and I regret that there is no longer a Secretary of State here to call on the Minister for Innovation and Technology to quote: "Develop and propose a model of public funding for local public transport. The deadline for this was 31 March 2020. I have, by the way, been keenly searching over the last few weeks for what has been developed by Minister Palkovic, and in the debate at that time, I have already pointed out that there is a contradiction here that a minister is instructed to develop a model of public funding and that funds are being diverted from the other side. Unfortunately, it has not been worked out, so I have now decided to look into the fate of this government decision and where the model of state funding is. Because it should be absolutely clear to everyone that public transport, as an important public service, is not profit-oriented, and we cannot, by any means, strive to maintain itself. We need to work together on a financing model from which the state, the municipality and the travelling public will participate. This is a working form of funding that can be seen in many places in Europe, but unfortunately we are not going in this direction at the moment, the state is withdrawing from the financing of public transport, despite the fact that, in this connection and in relation to a forward-looking reform of the entire national Community transport system itself, a comprehensive professional proposal has been in front of the government for years from opposition parties and from the LMP, but unfortunately, the right decisions are not being taken by the decision-makers, and many cities, many districts, are suffering from this. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-07-135	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed.
