u2020-06-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 32nd day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be helped by Attila Gelencsér and László Varga. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-09-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, While in recent weeks the country has struggled to combat the epidemic with all its forces, in silence we are increasingly moving away from the idea and practice of the local government, which has characterized Hungary since 1990. The decisive element of this local government introduced after the change of regime is that citizens can elect their representatives locally, elect their mayors, from the revenue of the body and management elected by the citizens, and from the state's normative subsidies, they can spend on all the important purposes they see fit on the ground. You can spend on development, maintenance, spending on modernising the state of schools, spending on social support, supplementing state aid, and generally managing your own decision-making powers. We are moving away from this otherwise very good system on an increasing scale. It turns out, when presenting the draft budget for next year, that the government can and will use every situation, even the situation caused by an epidemic, in order to strengthen its own positions, to serve its own efforts in power, and to reduce the autonomy of all those outside this circle, and even, if possible, to bring it to its knees. The figures for next year's budget show that the revenues and subsidies of municipalities, especially the larger municipal authorities, will fall again, as a result of which the decision competence will be significantly reduced and reduced, which has allowed local politicians and local bodies to decide on local development, support and social support in their own decision-making competences. The government did not plan the post-punishment budget to help all those struggling with this situation, but to build on the principle that it would collect money from where it might be and thus reduce the margin of manoeuvre. This was also the case for municipal authorities. I am thinking not only of the total removal of the car tax, but also of the balance that has always been positive over the last 30 years; it has always been positive: larger municipalities have always received more state aid than they have made available to the central budget at such an address that funds have been withdrawn from them. For the first time, after 30 years, the country's largest municipality, the Metropolitan Municipality, is in a position to pay more budget money than it receives budget support. This is quite simply an unprecedented situation. And while the government is counting that local industrialisation tax revenues will increase spectacularly in the coming year, I must say that we cannot even estimate the effects of the economic crisis after the epidemic; it seems certain that the entrepreneurial revenues that could serve as the source of all these municipal revenues will be spectacularly reduced, and therefore this type of municipal revenue will also be reduced. Simplifying, therefore, that the government will continue to pull on the belt, not on its own, but on the belt of the municipalities, in the case of the largest cities, especially the largest cities, further enhances the situation that has been characterised in recent years to a lesser or greater extent by the fact that these municipalities are reducing their independence, mainly because most of these municipalities have opposition leadership. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's irresponsible behavior. Local government needs to be restored. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-06-09-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Burány. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond.
u2020-06-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's start with the local government. Indeed, there are two types of local government: one is the left-wing local government and the other is the functioning local government created by the Fidesz-KDNP government. You're saying that the good municipal system you've made is smiling at it, of course. I'll tell you what you did. The following was their logic with regard to the municipalities. To give the municipalities as many tasks as possible, to hand them over, to hand them over, to get rid of the tasks, to hand them over to the municipality, so they will be provided. Yes, but he didn't put the resources to the local authorities; he didn't put the resources there, which resulted in the change of government in 2010, that the Hungarian municipal system was essentially no longer operational; it wasn't operational, the municipal system couldn't carry out its educational and health tasks, because there was no adequate source, there was no adequate funding. I was mayor at the time, so I have practical experience. I'll give you an example. We were very pleased when the Parliament decided at that time to raise the wages of civil servants. We were very pleased, and we were waiting for the budget for the funds that you will receive from the municipality. Yes, but the source didn't arrive. So the municipality had to farm it itself, it should have managed it, of course it didn't. It was only possible that the municipalities took out loans, loans and loans with borrowing; they took out loans for operations and took out loans for investments, because otherwise they did not receive loans from the government. How did it end? The fact that the Fidesz government came and the Fidesz government, the majority of the Parliament, had to decide that the government would take over the credit debt of the left-wing municipal system meant nearly 1,400 billion to the state budget. That's how the Hungarian municipal system became operational after 2010. You are criticising the decision by which the municipalities in a pandemic that affects Hungary must, of course, contribute to the cost of defence, because we expect everyone to contribute to the problem that has happened to the country. [[9.10]] Of course, let the government contribute primarily, unfortunately, because businesses have to contribute, because there are no jobs, there are not enough orders, private people have to contribute, because they defend and adapt to the rules, and they are respected. The municipalities must also contribute. They have to contribute even if they are left-wing government. It must also contribute if the capital has left-wing leadership. Yes, the Municipality of Budapest should also contribute, all 3200 Hungarian municipalities contribute to this common social and public cost, which meant more than HUF 600 billion to the state budget in 2020. And what else is the difference between your budget and the current budget or government operation? In your day, when there was trouble, there was a crisis, and the state budget went bankrupt. The difference now is that although there is a crisis and there is a problem in the economy, there is a cost of protection in health care, but the state budget is operational because the economy is stable, the budget is balanced and it can generate this resource. I think you're not telling the truth when you say that the largest municipality is now becoming a contributor and paying more. That's just not true. Forint 164 billion local industrialisation tax revenues were received by the Metropolitan Municipality in 2019, and you will be able to obtain this amount and more in 2020. So your claim that the capital will give you more than you get is simply not true. The budget will prove that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-09-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, LMP and myself have been struggling for many years to bring the VAT on basic foods to a discount of 5%. This initiative has never been as important as it is now, since the economic situation caused by the epidemic has put hundreds of thousands of our countrymen in an extremely difficult economic situation. This is coupled with the fact that basic food prices have increased significantly above inflation in recent months. The government's reaction always says in response that this decision would not be in line with Fidesz-KDNP's economic policy. The economic policy of a government paints a sharp picture of its relationship with the various layers of society; what it thinks of the upper tens of thousands, what it thinks of the middle class or what it thinks of the hundreds of thousands of people in need. It makes it clear and visible, which favors layers, and which social groups are considered to be the servers of the rich. In this comparison, the Government of Hungary draws a painfully accurate picture of its relationship with the Hungarian nation, the world it has dreamed of. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who wrote this speech for you?]] The negotiation of next year's budget is a great reason for examining who it represents and to whom the Fidesz-KDNP government benefits, but from whom it expects a higher contribution than their opportunities to the costs of running our country. We are bored when one of the representatives of the government explains that the Fidesz government is less taxing wages, more on consumption. This is a serious slide. The government of Viktor Orbán taxes the consumption he does not have an interest in, while the activities of the government's favorite entrepreneurial interests are borne only by accommodation or catering with a shocking discount and key. Consider an example of Fidesz-KDNP's tax policy. A family of six, the two parents and four children, decide to make pickles and strawberry jam for the sake of the children. They go out to the market on Saturday, and they buy pickles, garlic, and they buy potatoes, cucumbers, capers, onions, and we don't forget strawberries to make jam. They spend a total of HUF 30,500. This means that, through the general sales tax, HUF 6500 will be paid into the Hungarian budget. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What exactly was this spent on?]] If the same amount had been spent in a restaurant, only 1500 HUF tax would have charged the same amount. And two conclusions can be drawn from this example. On the one hand, that consumption-type taxes are necessarily not the same, but, on the other hand, it follows that social policy objectives can also be reflected in tax policy; even if a government is sickly attached to a single-key tax or extremely high tax rates on consumption. On the other hand, it is also apparent that the Fidesz-KDNP government has also put tax policy in the service of the rich social class it favours in other decisions. My belief and belief is that only tax policy can be accepted to help the widest possible availability of basic needs, especially basic food [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote for him?]] The Hungarian government can no longer tolerate the process of financing the well-being of the wealthy with reduced tax rates. What social truth can we talk about when shopping on weekends is four times as much tax as the amount of the restaurant bill or a long weekend spent forint tens of thousands? Where do large families go more often, to the market or to the restaurant? Do single - parenters buy fruit more often or go to restaurants? Would retired fathers and mothers who build their homes prefer to spend on healthy basic foods or on gastro wonders on menus? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Shall we close the restaurants? Is that what you want?]] The biggest question is, of course, that the tax revenue from the sale of basic foods, or the luxury restaurant bills for many people, or the tax revenue from accommodation services, which are also luxurious, should rather finance our common affairs. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Class fight!]] If you really are a family-friendly government, then it would be time for this to finally appear in your decisions, and I think that the first step in this is to reduce VAT on basic foods. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are restaurants and hotels closed? Don't let them see you in a restaurant.]]
u2020-06-09-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. With all due respect to the opposition and pro-government representatives, please respect each other. Thank you. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2020-06-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Fidesz-KDNP government is the government of tax reductions. And you want to take it with all your words, that the tax of the poor, the rich, has fallen, which serves the rich. Even if you want to change the government's family policy by changing the VAT rates, that Fidesz-KDNP is the government for tax reductions, you can't take that away from the current government. The reason you can't take it away is because let's go through the tax races: the government has significantly reduced personal income tax, it has become one-key, and the rate is among the first two in Europe, the European Union. He's been increasing family tax incentives. This is unique in Europe, since basically even those who do not have a tax can reduce their income with a family tax reduction, because they can also deduct contributions. The government reduced corporate tax rates, in Europe the lowest corporation tax is paid by companies operating in Hungary, with a 9 percent rate. The government has reduced the rate of social contribution tax, and will now decrease by another 2 per cent on 1 July, from 27 per cent to 15.5 per cent on the basis of the social contribution tax that is the burden of living work. But the government has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the highest consumption tax, nor in terms of VAT. [[9.20]] From then on, when the economy, the state of the budget, made this possible, we began to reduce the VAT on food. Thus, on 1 January 2014, the VAT on live and half pigs fell from 27 to 5; from 1 January 2015 the VAT on beef, sheep, goats from 27 to 5; from 1 January 2016 the VAT on pig meat decreased to 5 per cent; on 1 January 2017 the VAT on poultry and eggs decreased; from 27 to 18 per cent for restaurant services, from 18 per cent for non-alcoholic beverages, from 18 per cent for catering in the dining room to 5 per cent, from 27 to 5 per cent for fish meat, and on 1 January 2019 the VAT on milk from 18 per cent to 5 per cent. What if it is a reduction in VAT on non-essential foods? Do you know where the problem is, Your Honour? The problem is that LMP, your fellow parties, did not vote for these tax cuts on any occasion, not only this tax reduction, but also the tax cuts that the Fidesz government has brought to Parliament, which I have listed here in several tax categories, you have not supported. This is simply incomprehensible and incomprehensible from a political point of view, that just because someone is in opposition, they vote against doing good for people. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Because we agree that tax cuts, tax cuts, are good for people. Although there is also a professional debate and a question, especially during left-wing governments, about how to enforce VAT reductions in prices [[Gergely Harvesto: It doesn't.]] It is clear that, under market conditions, suppliers, between sales, there is a desire to use the rate of VAT reduction, which is a loss of tax revenue for the budget, for their own benefit and does not reduce prices. Well, we have to fight this. Honourable Congressman, I suggest that if you initiate the VAT reduction, and we present a tax reduction, then you would be kind enough to put aside your political opposition, and, as you have so generously said, how great it would be to reduce taxes and VAT in the middle of the epidemic, to agree that our proposal, which is about tax reductions, will be voted for by you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-8	Thank you very much, Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State. Has Mr Gergely Arató also applied for a speech before the agenda, DK:. Unprotected? Let's do something about animal cruelty. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-06-09-9	Dear House, Isn't there almost a day when we don't hear about some horrible, cruel animal cruelty from the media; isn't there a day when we don't face the fact that there are people? , who fill their anger with defenseless animals, who torture creatures who are dependent on us and who are living in the same way as humans, for fun or some kind of depraved temper. There are several types of animal cruelty, such as neglect, inadequate housing conditions, abandonment, starvation, but such are also the terrible acts of killing, torture, maiming dogs, cats, and other animals. Let us be clear that in a civilized society, we cannot view the life of animals as worthless, they too are living beings, they too are suffering, they too need protection. We humans depend on almost every minute of their lives, which is why we have a special responsibility to protect them. And it's foolish to think that anyone who's cruel to an animal will be kind, empathetic, and helpful to people. On the contrary, we find that those who are open to animals are also helpful to our fellow humans. At the same time, it is said that anyone who tortures an animal is preparing for man. I'm not so wise, that's what experts say, who have found a close link between animal cruelty and cruelty to humans. It is a well - known fact that most serial killers start with the torture of animals, and from there they draw experience and feed on the emotions that later lead to crimes. So it is time to give the animals real help. And, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why I am so bold in this matter is because, here in this House, almost all parties have initiated some kind of legislative amendment to protect animals in recent years, we all feel that there is such a problem. Last week, unfortunately, the debate on the proposal of our fellow Members of the Fidesz has failed, and other opposition proposals have not been allowed to come before the Parliament, but it is obvious that action must be taken, and obviously we must not only touch into the legislative environment at one or two points, but there is a need to tighten the criminal code. Ladies and gentlemen, It is unacceptable that the courts, by law, correctly and in accordance with the current laws, but morally unacceptable, impose maximum suspended prison sentences in most of the most serious cases. This is the result, moreover, of a moderate judgment and follows from the general rules of criminal law. But if we see that these rules are not sufficiently dissuasive, we see that the sense of justice of society and the moral justice that the well - feeling people rightly expect are not served by these rules, then let us change the laws, then let us bring in laws that allow us to impose a time sentence that can be served in the most serious cases. Let us change the rules of procedure in order to make it clear that action should be taken in such cases and how action should be taken. Change the rules on keeping animals so that no animal can treat its own animal as a dead property so that it can't feel comfortable doing what it wants to its own animal. And, of course, it is also important to make proposals made last week by our fellow Members, especially regarding the illegal use of pyrotechnic articles. Ladies and gentlemen, It is time for us to act, and we are all responsible together on both sides of this House. What we will do is to collect all the proposals that have come from any faction in recent years, from any party, we will add to it the proposals that our experts have developed, and we will present this week a package of animal protection laws that will finally provide substantial protection against animal torturers, which will finally meet the sense of justice of society and which will finally make it worthwhile so that there will be no neglect of animals in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Don't torture animals, don't kill animals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-09-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas wishes to respond.
u2020-06-09-11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, barbaric animal cruelty on the weekend excites all good - feeling people and worries me infinitely. And perhaps I could say that animal welfare law defines animal cruelty as an extremely serious act. That is why I would like Act C of 2012 on Criminal Code 244. To quote paragraph (1) of Section 1 of Article 2 of the Act: (a) The person who unduly assaults or unduly treats vertebrate animals in such a way as to cause them permanent damage to or destruction of their health, (b) expels, abandons or exposes vertebrate animals or dangerous animals, and is punishable by two years of imprisonment due to a misdemeanor. (2) The punishment for the crime is a three-year imprisonment if animal torture causes the animal a particular suffering or causes the lasting harm or destruction of several animals. I think that this law is extremely strict in itself, and that is, if we are now looking at certain anti-human life, assault crimes, we are reading, it is not always such harsh judgments. [[9.30]] It is therefore important that animal protection laws are strictly respected. Why am I saying this? Because this animal torture, done by certain people, if I may say so or commit an act, causes those animals an extraordinary pain, extremely difficult moments, and even, as it happened this weekend, a lasting change. Therefore, society needs to be alerted to such crimes and, at the same time, there are few calls, to teach people how to behave with animals. Anyone who thinks responsibly and keeps a pet knows very well what an animal keeper has to do with the animal, not only to eat, drink, but also to provide suitable accommodation and rest places, I think it is an obligation. For this reason, when you asked me this question, I immediately remembered the agricultural Ministry chapter on animal protection, how much the Ministry of Agriculture spends on various titles, various animal protection measures from various sources, including 70 million forints for the modernisation of animal shelters, but at the same time 100 million forints for various neutering aids in 2019. Of course, there are very strict rules to this. There are 35 thousand forints of support per dog for the development of shelters, and the efforts of Nébih in the field of animal protection are extremely important. Here are some programs I would like to mention to you: among other things, the owner's programme is free, which thinks about adoption instead of shopping, of course, in castration. However, this program also has a Facebook page, where we have 4,500 followers on this subject. The other very important program is the program for spaying dogs in the shelter, the Dog duty guide to the legal requirements of responsible dog maintenance, and these are all programs that clearly demonstrate that the government is thinking extremely seriously, not only thinking, but also making sure that such cases are as little as possible. But there is another program, the publication in harmony, which also draws attention to responsible livestock farming. Lately, many times, especially during the summer months, the animals are left in the heated car, in the burning sun, which is, of course, almost unbearable. Therefore, perhaps the most important question is how we can draw the attention of today's society to these problems. I am convinced that this should start in a significant way with children. When a little kid gets a kitten, gets a puppy, takes care of it, takes care of it, determines his whole life, has an influence that clearly needs to be taught in kindergarten and school. I'd be happy to have as many of these pets as possible in the children's possession, because it's obvious. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to make this issue a significant part easier. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Let's talk about the truth. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-06-09-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In March, Hungary's health care and residential social institutions were virtually closed due to an emergency order due to a coronal virus epidemic. Doctors over the age of 65 couldn't even work, so even most of the GPs were closed. [[German Szilárd István: Korózs II.]] But the dentists didn't order, the clinics and hospitals also suspended the benefits, and almost all the procedures were postponed. Tens of thousands of people were sent home for the removal, liberation, and evacuation of hospital beds. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This isn't real. István Szilárd Németh: Lying smoothly.]] In a few days, Easter was the time to perform this inhumanity. There was a hospital manager who didn't like that, they had to go. Then Miklós Kásler denied that he would have ordered the hospitals to evacuate the bed and put the responsibility on the hospital directors. On 28 May, at the request of the ATV, I understand exactly Mr Rétvári State Secretary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Not on ATV.]] he said: "There was no bed discharge, there was no delayed surgery and the number of beds booked decreased to 38 percent by the end of April due to the cancellation of scheduled interventions by patients. No one was allowed home from the hospital whose life could have been compromised. In the end, it turned out that 32,000 beds were set free in hospitals. We did not propose the establishment of a committee of inquiry by the Hungarian Socialist Party for a reason. Mr. Secretary, I know what you're going to say, that we're lying, that we're not telling the truth about what happened in the last few days. Then I would like to ask the Secretary of State to set up the Committee of Inquiry on four issues: the conditions and effects of dismissal of patients in hospital; the conditions and effects of suspension of professional care; the contamination of hospitals [[Noise, interruptions The president's ringing.]] conditions and effects thereof; conditions and effects of the purchase of virus-related devices. If the truth is so important to you and you think that the truth is on your side, then I ask you to join me in setting up a committee of inquiry, because then it is in your interest to prove that we have lied about everything we've been doing over the past period, nothing from the life situations and stories we've revealed is true, and then prove it. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including: Why are the videos deleted?]] Stand before him, Secretary of State, and support the establishment of this committee of inquiry. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Since then, although the epidemic has calmed down, despite the regulations on the re-opening on 1 May, Hungarian health care is still severely delayed. They're waiting hours in the E.R., in front of the clinics and hospitals. You know, Secretary of State, I've been to the country for the last week, and I've seen that it's true that it wasn't so hot, but I ran into Csepel exactly that there were 30 or 40 people standing in front of the office in the pouring rain to get in. Of course, the epidemiological rules must be observed, we must still defend, we must be careful, but it is unworthy of the Hungarian people to stand in front of the clinic for hours, whether on a sunny day, disabled or pregnant for eight months, because they cannot get into the clinic immediately. The other, Mr Secretary, is that, in principle, we pay the state hard forints for health care for long and long years. We'll pay the price for this service. Mr. Secretary, who should we sue for almost three months now for not getting access to the services that the Fundamental Law in principle provides for the Hungarian State to ensure that I and the citizen pay the price? Who do we have to turn to, Secretary of State, that these interventions have been cancelled? Professionals say that more people in Hungary will die as a result of the absence of surgery and the lack of treatment [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] They've thrown patients out of hospitals, and as a result, they're suffering serious health damage that's irreversible, or they're gonna end up dying. My fellow Members, you can smile at this, and I will ask the Secretary of State to know that he is very busy, and I was in Nyíregyháza yesterday and in Mátészalka, I am going back today. Come with me, Secretary of State, to Nyíregyháza, to a family where they're dropping off a seriously diabetic former police officer from the hospital, blinded at the hospital because he didn't get the proper care, and now they're giving him home from the hospital without being able to examine him three weeks ago while he was in bed. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Because the ophthalmology didn't work. And, Secretary of State, come with me to a funeral in Mátészalka [[The president's ringing again.]] And then you will face the Hungarian reality. Do this for me. Don't believe me, believe me [[The president's ringing again.]] To the people who have been going through this terrible thing for months! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-09-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-06-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Fortunately, Hungary was able to defend itself successfully against the corona virus epidemic. This is shown by the numbers of deaths per million inhabitants. This is much less in Hungary than most of the countries that are richer than us. [[9.40]] Nearly half as many as in Germany, seventeen or eighty times as in Sweden, or sixteen as in Belgium. If you look at the death numbers of the first months in Hungary now and in previous years, you will see that by mid-May this year around 46 600 people died, while last year 50 thousand people and the year before 49 500 people died. Thus, the number of deaths is much lower than in recent years, and the number of people killed in a coronal virus per million inhabitants is much lower than in most European or Western European countries. This could have been done because of a very broad cooperation. The Hungarian people joined forces, changed their way of life, stayed there, stayed at home, health care changed into a completely different, during an epidemic, police, social workers, publicists, shop workers and everyone else tried to adapt their way of life to the control of the epidemic. The cooperation was complete in Hungary, which is why we were successful. The only part of this cooperation is the Hungarian opposition. Because you here in Parliament, when you had to vote to respond more quickly to the current stages of the epidemic, you did not vote for this. Neither can it be decided quickly, nor can the government react quickly or within hours. In fact, not only did they not support a rapid response, but you started spreading false news and even spreading it, but you started producing false news. Instigating patients, raising unfounded accusations here and in the media, they wanted to gain political benefit while the Hungarian people were working together to defend themselves against the virus. Here in Parliament, we heard Congresswoman Timea Szabó, who said that most people die in Hungary from coronal viral disease, which, thank God, is far from true, and even a better performing country. This is where he said it first, and then many others said again that there was a nurse who told a story just like yours, that it was because they supposedly dropped people from hospitals who needed care that couldn't have happened, because no one gave such instructions, so eight or nine out of ten patients died. It was you who ran to CNN that even the parliament does not meet in Hungary. Then here was our fellow Member Bernadett Szél, who was able to tell the German public service channel that health workers in Hungary do not receive protective equipment, and then he visited the entire German media, while his own opposition, left-wing fellow Members could see several tons of protective equipment in the warehouses in the boxes and mountains. Then there was Congressman János Bencsik, who left? , snuck into the back entrance of the Jahn Ferenc South Pest Hospital, as it turns out, with the violation of the epidemiological rules, he went into the hospital together with his two companions and showed that there was no adequate protective equipment, he made a video of it, that there was no adequate protective equipment, and he presented certain protective equipment that turned out to be visitors' protective equipment, and he made it look like a protective equipment for doctors and nurses. That's why the hospital reported him. The continuation and perhaps the most horrifying example of all this is your video, Madam honourable Member, because you have also started making videos. Lajos Korózs's colleague posted a video this weekend, which was so insufferable that it was canceled, even so unsuitable, that even the communication explaining the video was deleted from the Internet, as it was told in front of the National Rescue Service headquarters, cutting ambulances as clips, that those who have been working as a paramedic for 43 years are going to hear a full-time paramedic who is now watching the video of the MSZP, who has since turned out not to be an ambulance officer. He wasn't even a paramedic. It's not in the register of the Labor Board, it's not in the nurse's records of the State Health Services Center. So you're not in any official health records, and you're putting a man like this on record as a credible source, honourable Member, and you've written the same thing at the end of this video that you said here that this is the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and While the Hungarian people joined forces while everyone changed their way of life and working conditions, whether they were civil citizens, whether they worked in health care, worked in law enforcement or worked in social care, they changed, and you only made fake news videos and distributed fake news videos. That's how you destroyed the effectiveness of the defense. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the current case. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-09-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State, I believe that there will be a very irregular speech before the agenda, because I can not only hope for it, but I am sure that we will agree with much of what has been said in the coming minutes not only on this side of the Parliament horseshoe, but also on the other side. We will agree, because I think that I am not alone in the idea that it is not well enough to stab two innocent young people on Deák Ferenc Square in Budapest. It is not well that some people seem armed to leave for the night in Budapest, and it is not well that because of these elements, because of these people, tens of thousands of parents will have to look forward to the coming months. 'Cause the curfew's over, and the summer break's on us. You're telling me what I want to do here, because ever since the world is around, being a parent is one of constant concern. What changed then, compared to before? Parents worry when their children go to kindergarten, parents worry when their children choose school, parents worry when they choose a couple or friends. The parent is concerned when the child goes to college, especially when it happens in another city or is going out. Then what's changed? You ask him. I will answer that question with two news. One of the rumors is that a young guy walked out of the second floor a few weeks ago at a house party. The second news is that two young men were stabbed to death in the main square of Budapest. And it's only June. Where's the new school start in September? How many young people are going to be victims in the next few months, and tens of thousands of parents are turning around in their beds, and it's not going to be my child who falls victim to these circumstances, is it? We are different in this country, and we are different in this House. We are different, but one thing is certainly similar: our children are the most important to all of us in this world. What a opposition politician can do, I have done in recent days and in recent weeks about it and in order to prevent such a terrible tragedy from happening again in Hungary. I've been coordinating and talking to the young people around me. In cooperation with them, we submitted a resolution proposal to the Hungarian Parliament, and now I am bringing the matter of the safety of our children and the safety of our young people to this House. But I'm asking you, what do you people do when you're on the government? What do you do who are responsible for the effective work of police agencies for the safety of our children? What do you do, who have a beard and a joke, but ten years ago you promised this country that they would clean up Hungary in two weeks? What do you do to allow young Hungarians to have fun in safe conditions? What do you do to make sure that parents don't have to twist their stomach nerves overnight in their beds and see when the key turns in that particular lock? I would ask you to be kind this time and put your political vanity aside and accept our proposal for a resolution aimed at the safe entertainment of young people, which we brought to the Hungarian Parliament together with Jobbik's youth department. We want a metal detector in the discotheque, and we're asking you to be punished with a knife. Because we think the knife should be in the kitchen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-09-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Stummer. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, who replied on behalf of the government. [[9.50]]
u2020-06-09-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I am here in Parliament expressing my sincere condolences and condolences to the families, friends, relatives and II of young people who died in serious crimes at Deák Square. He died in the district of his young family. Not only do families and friends miss them, but the entire Hungarian nation, Hungary, because we lost young people in a senseless way. We have compassion and compassion for families, relatives, and friends. As regards the question you asked, what are you doing about the security of young people, you asked for security at all, and you referred to 2010 too, well, in this regard, I would like to say that in 2010, we promised to tidy up the country. We said that we would strengthen the police force, increase police numbers, settle police debt, because between 2002-10, he was in serious debt, and we would pay it, we would pay it, we would supply the police with a proper fleet of vehicles, we would give the police a proper salary. This was the subject of the 2015 professional career law, which entered into force on 1 July 2015 and was first a 30-percent salary increase, followed by a 5-5 per cent increase in the following years, a total 50 per cent salary increase and a gross allowance of HUF 500 000 at the end of the last year. And several wage measures have been taken by the government to attract and acknowledge police careers, police work, even professional work. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in 2012, the new Criminal Code came into force, we adopted strict criminal laws in Parliament, we introduced the three strikes law earlier and we created strict laws. As a result of this and the measures that I have told you to make strict laws, strengthening the police by means, financial strength, living power, compared to 2010, the number of crimes that have become known has now fallen by more than 50 percent. I am talking about the time of the virus epidemic in 2020, and since March, the number of crimes has decreased by 63 percent. But the police took part in border control because they remember that we closed the borders, we had to check the borders, we had to check the rules of curfew, we had to check the quarantine regulations, we had hospital commanders appointed by the operational tribe, we had the operational control centre of the operational tribe, and the police and professionals were out of control not only to carry out the tasks, to carry out the basic tasks, but also to fight the Crown Virus. Today, we can say that we have successfully defended ourselves and that the defense has been successful. Returning to what you have said, we also say and this is the guiding principle that the police of Hungary in all the settlements of Hungary will act decisively against all criminals in the interests of the safety and health of people. It should also be said that the Budapest Police Commissioner has taken specific measures in relation to the metropolitan nightclubs. Protecting these places of entertainment, protecting the safety of young people who are out there, is a priority. We also believe that more needs to be done in this area, and we want to do more, because it is in the common interest that children who go out get home. But it must also be said, honourable Member, that there is no police for every man. In order for this programme, this objective to be successful, it is also necessary for citizens to follow the law. We have also made significant progress in this area over the last ten years. So it can be said that security is the most important Community value today, and today Hungary is a safe country. We do not say this, not only do we feel this, but also international organisations that are objectively examining the conditions of security. I know that Deak Square won't give up the lives of two victims, and II. District youth who jumped out the window won't give his life back, nor can he reduce his parents' grief. I would like to assure you that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power, both now and in the future, to make it even safer for young people to live even more safely. This is what the 2021 budget is about, and we will start the negotiations tomorrow. I ask you that if all of this is really important to you and I felt sincere about your contribution, then you should vote in favour of the budget for 2021. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Member Miklós Seszták, Christian Democratic People's Party also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of economic development programmes in the Carpathian Basin. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-09-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The Covid epidemic in 2020 achieved a resilient, balanced economy in March thanks to the economic policy of recent years, so the economic protection measures taken so far could help the Hungarian economy to restart. It wasn't like that in 2008. The primary objective of Hungarian economic policy is to protect the economic results achieved so far, and to launch and recover the momentum of economic and economic growth. It is an important goal for the Hungarian economy to be able to get into the right starting position when the world economy resumes after Covid. The Government of Hungary aims to strengthen its partnership with neighbouring countries, deepen it on the basis of mutual benefits, and define jointly eligible and feasible economic development programmes in order to support Hungarians across borders. It is of particular importance that the economic development programmes of the Hungarian Government for the survival of foreign national parts of the Carpathian Basin continue in 2016 in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. In the framework of the economic development programmes in the Carpathian Basin, it has supported the development of more than HUF 230 billion since 2016 and has created thousands of jobs in Vojvodina, Transcarpathia, Upper Hungary, Muravidék and Drávagyeg through 54 984 successful tenders. Since 2018, Hungarian companies have also been participating in the implementation of the programmes in a growing proportion, thanks to which the implementation of the programmes not only contributes to increasing the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and the protection of jobs, not only in Hungarian territory across the border, but also in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, In line with the economic protection action plan, the implementation of the programmes will continue this year, to which the government has already decided to provide additional funds. In Felvidék, 2,100 small tenders are being evaluated and paid, in Transylvania medium-scale industrial innovation and technological developments, hotel development, and calls for applications are under way, as well as the preparation of a new round of applications in Szeklerland. We provide assistance to tourist entrepreneurs starting in Vojvodina, as well as land purchase grants of major importance from a national policy point of view. More than a thousand small-value tourist, business development and agricultural applications are being prepared in Transcarpathia. We continue our program with more than a hundred small and medium-value applications in the Dravangég and Muraköz. For those micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary that are planning to invest cross-border in order to preserve or develop their competitiveness, with particular support for job creation, we will also launch a new support programme with the involvement of the Central European economic development network. The aim of the aid is to help businesses in difficulty due to the corona virus epidemic, to maintain their competitiveness and to preserve jobs. The target area for the development of support is the target area for cross-border economic development programmes and the underlying economic development strategies. Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective is to continue the programmes, to support new investments and innovations in the Carpathian Basin, with grants serving both cross-border economic development and domestic economic protection objectives. [[10.00]] It is also important to ensure that Hungarian suppliers and investors in neighbouring countries and in areas of national political importance are able to make the best use of the opportunities for restructuring due to the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic. I would like to ask my fellow Members to continue to support the launch and implementation of cross-border economic development programmes. Thank you for your kind and understanding attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-22	Thank you very much, Congressman Sesztas. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Tamás Menczer.
u2020-06-09-23	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council,
u2020-06-09-24	Excuse me, we have a microphone problem. [[Tamás Menczer: This may be better. I can hear myself, Mr. President. That's part of it.]] The colleagues will be back soon. There's no name on the screen for the Secretary of State. [[Tamás Menczer: It was my fault, Mr. President, I apologize.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-09-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think that you were absolutely right when you started your speech and mentioned the economic situation in Hungary before 2010 or what situation the country was in, and what situation the crisis was in, then an economic crisis, now the corona virus epidemic, which, of course, also has economic consequences. For the eternal truth we all know is that nothing can be given. If he is not here, there are enough tasks that the government will have to deal with at home, but if there is, we can also help Hungarians from abroad. The Hungarian economy, employment figures, GDP data and external economic data were now in a strong state before the coronal virus epidemic, so we were able to start dealing with the crisis and the crisis from a strong economic situation, and this makes it possible to help Hungarians from abroad in different ways. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for bringing this important issue here, especially a few days after the Trianon anniversary, because before I turn to economic issues, let me also stress that, in our view, the nation does not end at the border, we belong with the Hungarians from abroad. We have survived the plague, the mutilation that we believe no other nation would have survived, and confirming the principle that what doesn't kill us will strengthen us now in the Carpathian Basin more strongly than ever in the last 100 years. The Hungarians from abroad have always been in the heart of our hearts, there are and there will be, we help them, whether it is about preserving identity, and about the aspirations and economic issues related to it. How do we do this and how does it work? In relation to foreign Hungarians, we do not want to tell them about Budapest either, for example, what economic cooperation and support they need or what they say; we represent what they say. In our view, national communities connect two countries, not separate them. We see them as a resource, a resource that brings two countries together, brings them closer, not separate. And we look to neighbouring countries as partners, because we believe that we are all interested in strengthening and developing the Central European region, and that cooperation is the basis of this strengthening and development, so we are interested in cooperation, and the fundamental part of cooperation is that the different nationalities, including the Hungarians from abroad, are strengthened in their homeland and where they live. Honourable Congressman, The person who cooperates with us, and who supports our policy, I believe that everyone wins, because this is good for the Hungarians from abroad, and it is good for the neighbouring countries, as you mentioned, because the support there is useful and good for us, because we can support our fellow nations. You have made and may, of course, make more distinctions with regard to projects and applications on the basis of the size of investors, based on the area of investment. I would like to make a summary in the relationship that between 2016-20 we announced 13 026 winning applications in Vojvodina, 47.5 billion forints of funding won, and 93 billion forints of total development value, so it can be seen that it is roughly double the aid. In Transcarpathia, 33 048 winners, 14 billion grants, 19 billion in development value. In Transylvania, more than 6,000 funded proposals, 47 billion grants and 87 billion development, so the aid value is roughly double. In the Highlands, 2131 successful tenders, 15 billion grants, 30 billion in total development value. In the Mura region, 651 applications, 2.5 billion grants, 3.5 billion total investments. In the Dravan angle, 532 applications, more than 2 billion grants and a total development value of approximately 3 billion. With regard to the virus, it was obviously very important for the people living along the border, whether they live here or on the other side of the border, that the possibility of commuting was very soon established. This was, of course, essential for those to whom this is a source of income. A lot of things are changing in the world, and we can see that in connection with the virus. One thing is certainly not: Hungarians from abroad can always count on the support of the Hungarian government. Thank you for raising the subject and for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-26	Thank you, Secretary of State Menczer. Dear Parliament, Pál Zsigmond Barna, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-06-09-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is known to everyone that a coronal virus epidemic poses a threat not only to human health but also to the economy. The epidemic has put many Hungarian businesses and jobs at risk. We believe it is right that the government has focused on protecting jobs, and to this end it helps Hungarian people with wage subsidies, tax reductions and incentives for investment. But this has not always been the case for crisis management in Hungary. The left-wing government has always built on austerity, taken from businesses and employees, bankrupted the country. They lifted the 13th month pension, raised the VAT, took a month's wages from public sector workers, and not only did they not have wage subsidies, but they even reduced wages. This has further increased unemployment and has deepened poverty. The left-wing authorities have now taken out this recipe and started collecting money. With them, there's a series of firings, cuts and cuts. Many left-wing municipalities have put people on the streets and reduced the salaries of public service workers. The Christian hater Péter Niedermüller was led by Erzsébetváros, while without blinking the salary of the preschoolers in the district, until then he gave several tens of millions of orders to his lawyer, Csaba Czeglédy, accused of tax evasion. In Józsefváros, András Piko took the residence of medical workers, policemen and firefighters. But it could also be said that in Hódmezővásárhely the mayor's salary of Péter Márki-Zay was left unchanged, while other civil servants were fired and salaries were reduced. The salary of the kindergarten teachers was reduced until August 31, in Ozdon, under better management. Miskolc's left-wing superiors immediately reduced the wages of the physical workers who worked for the city. Left-handed Vác reduced the salary of several employees to zero forints [[Zoltán Balczó: Independent.]] Putting many families' livelihoods in jeopardy. Fortunately, the labour authority's investigation found that this was indeed a violation. We can say that left-wing mayors are not in solidarity at all, they are only interested in their own welfare, at the expense of others. I don't have to go far, I see such processes in my constituency, in Újpesten, where he also spends his time politicizing and causing enormous damage to the people of Újpest by the left-handed municipality. The Mayor of Tibor Déri, who is a member of DK Újpest, was working with László Varju and the President of DK Budapest, Vice Mayor of Újpest, together with Norbert Trippon, to deliver millions of public money to family members. And the acquaintances, party soldiers, and trusted cadres were put in a position. In this brother-in-law world, there is no matter of expertise, the most important principle of directing is left-wing attachment. Klára Ungár was a politician from SZDSZ politician through the son of Zsolt Gréczy to the wife of István Szávay, who was the best. But one of the mayor's party mates, who took advantage of the one-man decision making during the epidemic, has benefited from a well-paying position. László Déri Veréb was appointed by Újpest Property Management Ltd. Deputy Director General. [[10.10]] Millions of campaign funds have been moved to the local government company, where last October, he became head of the Supervisory Board. Now, according to the mayor's single-person decision, the partner-partner of the party appeared as a political commissar at Újpest's largest revenue company coordinating significant investments in the municipality. The fact that Sparrow has serious moments of contact is no better than the fact that in addition to the Budapest Capital Property Management Center Zrt. He was also a member of his board of directors. The left-wing parties have visual politics, the only responsibility for the defence is being shifted, and they blame everything else, and they always point to something else. By the way, the mayor of Budapest is at the top of the show: Christmas does nothing but Facebook entries, and for everything I can say, blames the government for everything. Everyone must play their part in the costs of combating the epidemic, which is what the solidarity contribution of the municipalities is about. We regret that for the political leaders of the capital, for Gergely Christmas, solidarity does not mean anything, while, as a result of the government's actions, it will remain 10 billion HUF more than Budapest next year. The Left denies it, but last October Christmases and left-wing mayors took over the municipalities with billions of savings. If this money was spent so quickly, irresponsiblely, then I ask: where are the billions from the register of the capital and the districts? You can see the left is spending the money on himself. Now, in the crisis, it has been proven once again that Hungarians cannot count on the left, the left is not to be expected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will answer.
u2020-06-09-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a strong, proud European country today, a country that can protect its citizens. Thanks to the consistent governance of the past period, we can protect Hungarian people and effectively combat the coronal virus epidemic. The first battle against the plague was won, the defense was successful, the plague was contained. In this battle, left-wing local governments are not in solidarity, and the necessary cooperation has also been cancelled. We are not surprised at this, we all remember the situation before 2010: the country's cash register was empty at the time, the population was indebted, the municipalities were in a debt trap, Hungary was in a state of bankruptcy. Think about what would happen if today, in this viral situation, the country was ruled by the left: tragedy! It has been six months since the municipal elections, but it is already apparent that the mayors supported by opposition parties, especially the mayor of Budapest, Gergely Karácsony, want to settle against the government for constant warfare. It's nothing new, we've seen it from Gábor Demszky. When martial bridge posts are created from these settlements, cooperation and the development and growth of people living in settlements are also threatened, but they are apparently not interested. Today, left-wing municipalities are just looking for excuses about why they can't act, why they can't stand up for their workers, their people, why they can't make any investments. Clearly, the left can't build, the left can only destroy. Dear Parliament, Just think of the long-awaited renovation of the Chain Bridge, where the capital has no idea how it should be implemented at all. Because of the indecision, the reconstruction of the Chain Bridge was completely insecurity, while the government provided a source for it. Under the leadership of the former city management, István Tarlós left 24 billion in the register under the leadership of Mayor Tarlós, and the government has provided 6 billion of them, and is currently providing them. We very much hope that it is not that this amount has already been squandered after a few months. We see the same thing everywhere: inability to decide, procrastination, and, as a frame of all this, point to each other. While local governments receive wages, they have reduced wages and sent their employees on unpaid leave. As you said: In Ózd the wages of the kindergarten teachers were reduced, in Miskolc the salaries of the employees of the local government companies were reduced, and in Hódmezővásárhely, after the wage cuts of the civil servants, cuts were added to municipal companies and institutions. Meanwhile, the parties behind the mayors of the settlements in Parliament demand a wage increase, which is completely hypocrisy. The left is also uncredited when it comes to protecting jobs, because earlier, the crisis was dealt with by austerity on the government, and the left handled the crisis by putting more and more burdens on the shoulders of the people instead of helping them. Since the Bokros package and the 2009 cuts, we know precisely that the left has managed the crisis by ending the 13th month pension, reducing the duration of the child's pension, raising the general rate of VAT by 5 percentage points, including the family allowance, raising the retirement age, reducing the pension, taking a month's wages from public sector employees, introducing a property tax, and, in addition, devoting the country with an IMF-giga loan. Dear Parliament, During the Balliberal governments, hundreds of thousands of people were on welfare, jobs were removed instead of job creation, and those who worked were taxed to death. Our focus is on jobs and work, the main goal is that as many jobs as the virus destroys, we have to create as many jobs as we do. Meanwhile, we must not weaken our financial defence capabilities so that we cannot defend ourselves in the event of a speculation attack. Our aim is to maintain Hungary's financial independence and its financial strength. The national government has already demonstrated that it can create jobs: at the beginning of 2020 there were 850 thousand more people in Hungary than in the last quarter of 2010 before the change of government. Between 2010 and 2020, the employment rate increased from 54 per cent to 70 per cent, and it can be said that 4.5 million people worked in Hungary before the outbreak of the virus. The unemployment rate fell from 12 per cent in 2010 to 3.3 per cent by the end of 2019. Indeed, we can say that left-wing mayors are not in solidarity at all, they are only interested in their own welfare, at the expense of others. Dear Parliament, It's in the common interest of all of us. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so that Hungarian cities and settlements can develop. One thing's for sure, the government won't be able to do that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-30	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A general debate on the announcement of the conclusion of the Agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/10854. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-06-09-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Here I was warned to be careful with this 30 - minute time frame. [[Defiance.]] I can promise you that this is how I'm going to deal with it, you can be quite sure of that. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to fulfil our obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, because a decision has been taken at the Court of Justice of the European Union, the implementation of which is compulsory for the Member States. First, allow me to briefly describe the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and its legal consequences for Hungary. In March 2018, the court issued its judgment on the case in which the Slovak Republic and Achmea were interested. The Court found that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precludes an arbitration clause in international investment protection agreements between Member States. According to this clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute in this regard, the Member State of the investment firm may initiate arbitration proceedings with the Member State of the investment destination. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, arbitration clauses between investors and States in investment protection agreements within the European Union are contrary to the law of the European Union, which, according to the court, undermine the system of redress provided for by Union contracts. [[10.20]] The court considers that these agreements jeopardise the autonomy, effectiveness and priority of EU law and its direct scope and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to implement the judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, a consultation between Member States on the form in which it is possible to comply with the obligation under EU law as quickly as possible was initiated in 2018 after the judgment. From the outset, the Commission's position was that EU law is not only opposed to arbitration chapters, but also to the substantive provisions of investment protection agreements, given the existing overlaps and the full system of protection provided by EU law for investment. In the summer of 2018, the European Commission published a communication setting out detailed guidance on issues related to the legal protection of cross-border but intra-EU investments. In the Commission's view, EU law encourages and protects investment in a number of forms, both through fundamental economic freedoms and through the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and thirdly, investors are also protected by a number of sector-specific rules. The task of enforcing the rights resulting therefrom lies with the courts of the Member States, which, in their preliminary ruling procedure, may appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Union for guidance. Secondly, the Commission can also enforce compliance with obligations under EU law in the framework of infringement procedures that we know well. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to resolve the situation, Member States made first-step commitments in the form of political declarations in January of last year in order to eliminate bilateral investment protection agreements. Furthermore, the purpose of the declarations was also to ensure that international arbitration councils in ongoing investment defence dispute resolution cases between Member States, in their decision-making, have regard to this particular European Court of Justice judgment between the Slovak Republic and the company Achmea, as a consequence, to determine their lack of jurisdiction, to reject incoming claims and to complete ongoing procedures between EU Member States in these investment protection matters. As a next step, a multi-faceted agreement between the Member States of the European Union has begun to be called the negotiation of a plurilateral agreement aimed at abolishing the system of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the Union. We, of course, were also actively involved in the negotiations by the Hungarian Government, fulfilling our obligations under EU law. These negotiations took place through nine rounds, resulting in an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union with a content corresponding to Hungarian interests. This agreement was then signed in Brussels on 5 May this year. The agreement was signed by a majority of Member States, 23 Member States, four and the United Kingdom still did not. I think it is clear why the United Kingdom is and the other four Member States are because their different policy interests were contrary to what this agreement has set out. However, in order for the agreement to enter into force and thus become binding on the Member States and to terminate their investment protection agreements, it is necessary to ratify the Member States, and that is why we have presented this bill to the Parliament in order to comply with this ratification obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, A total of 22 investment protection agreements are in place between Hungary and certain Member States of the European Union, and this agreement leads to the termination of 18 investment protection agreements in the light of the scope of the States Parties. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as the content of the agreement is concerned, I would just like to say briefly to you that it consists of 18 articles and 4 annexes. The contract also provides for pending and new arbitration procedures to be considered closed. In line with its objective, the proposal lists bilateral investment protection agreements which cease to exist as a result of the entry into force of this Treaty and also provides for the termination of the provisions on the expiry of bilateral investment protection agreements previously terminated without further effect. The agreement adequately ensures that bilateral investment protection agreements are not capable of generating additional legal effects after termination. In the future, this agreement also provides for the case of the Member States joining the European Union. We hope that this will happen, I mean, we hope that the European Union's enlargement policy will speed up a little. Thus, in the future, the case of the Member States that joined the European Union is also provided for in this Agreement, whereby, from the date on which one of the parties to the bilateral investment protection agreement has become a Member State of the non-EU Member State, the arbitration clause set out in that Investment Protection Agreement cannot serve as a legal basis for international arbitration proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, Investors from the EU Member States can enforce their claim before the Hungarian courts in accordance with the applicable Hungarian and EU law, but they will no longer be able to do so before international elected courts. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian economy is one of the ten most open economies in the world. In the performance of the Hungarian economy, external factors such as international inter-business relations, investment in Hungary, foreign investments by Hungarian companies play an important, determinative and decisive role. For Hungary, the security of Hungarian companies investing abroad is critical from a legal, physical and economic point of view, but the safety awareness of companies investing in Hungary is at least as important, because it is an important investment promotion tool. In Hungary, there is an investment in direct working capital of EUR 8600-8700 each. This dynamic increase is one of the main objectives of Hungarian economic policy, since these investments in Hungary provide high value added production or service, give jobs to Hungarian people, provide a predictable vision for Hungarian families. Compliance with this European agreement shows legal certainty and another incentive will be for companies to define Hungary as the most attractive investment environment in Central Europe. I would like to inform you that every year for five years until 2019, the record of investments in Hungary has been broken; this year is obviously in a different category from this point of view. However, for the following months 806 Hungarian companies have invested HUF 377 billion to protect more than 140 thousand jobs. In addition, negotiations are under way with some large international companies that allow the Hungarian economy to return to the growth path that we have been going through in recent years as quickly as possible after the crisis, and as a result of which, at the end of last year, the Hungarian economy was able to demonstrate the fastest growth rate in Europe. The Hungarian people, the performance and cooperation of Hungarian companies with the Hungarian government in recent years have made the Hungarian investment environment the most attractive Central European investment environment. We are interested in maintaining this, and this is the purpose of the bill before you, so I call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[10.30]]
u2020-06-09-32	Thank you, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-09-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, In 1991 Czechoslovakia and the Netherlands concluded bilateral investment protection agreements. Under the provisions of the Convention, if disputes between one party and the investor of the other party cannot be resolved peacefully, they shall be settled before an arbitration tribunal. Based on this, Achmea, a Dutch insurance undertaking operating in Slovakia, launched proceedings in 2008. However, Slovakia objected to the legality of the ruling of the arbitration court. The case was subsequently brought to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Grand Chamber of the Court stated that the dispute settlement mechanism of the Dutch-Slovak Investment Protection Agreement was not compatible with the EU legal system. As has been said, the mechanism is not capable of ensuring that such disputes are dealt with by a court which is part of the EU judicial system, even though only such a court is capable of ensuring that EU law is implemented. In view of the fact that the arbitration tribunal has violated the autonomy of EU law, the judgments thus delivered should be considered null and void. The judgment of the Court of 6 March 2018 in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea is an important milestone, which also plays a key role in this agreement. Dear Minister, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the time, Hungary, together with the Commission and other EU countries, submitted comments supporting the Slovak position to the court. That is understandable, since arbitration clauses may involve legal uncertainty and political-business risks. It is important that the investment environment in the EU is based on stable, predictable and transparent legislation, because, thanks to the government's economic policy, Hungary is now a highly attractive destination for foreign investments. This is, among other things, the fact that the investment rate has risen to a record level in recent years, as the Minister said. In the eyes of investors, even the crisis caused by the corona virus could not significantly reduce the attractiveness of the country. Only during the first quarter of this year, 17 new investments were made, with a total value of HUF 112 billion, creating another 1434 jobs. Moreover, these investment decisions have already been made in response to the threat of an imminent epidemic. Clearly, then, we have every reason to be optimistic about the future of foreign investment. In view of this, the Fidesz faction will support the publication of the agreement, and I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2020-06-09-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The decision to terminate the agreement was taken on the basis of an EU court decision. I would perhaps recall the articles in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union which created the legal basis. Article 267 states that the Court of Justice of the European Union has jurisdiction to take a preliminary ruling on the following issues: interpretation of contracts, validity and interpretation of acts of the institutions, bodies or offices of the Union, and if such a question arises before a court of a Member State, and this court considers that it is necessary to rule on the matter, it may ask the Court of Justice of the European Union to take a decision on this matter. Article 344 states that Member States undertake to settle their disputes concerning the interpretation or application of contracts only through the procedures provided for in the Treaties. The German Federal Court referred a preliminary ruling to the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of the Slovak Republic v. Achmea B. V., and the Court of Justice of the Union took a decision of historic importance: the Grand Chamber of 15 held that there was a fundamental conflict between the dispute resolution clauses of individual investment protection agreements within the Union and the specific provisions and principles of Union law. Here, the Minister explained in detail how the process which, together with the coordination of the Member States, has finally taken place from this unique but historic decision to this day, when we contribute with this announcement to the elimination of this possibility in general. Otherwise, let me address the issue of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, called CETA. This entered into force provisionally on 21 September 2017 because, obviously, under the Lisbon Treaty, the European Union has become an independent legal personality and has the right to conclude such an international treaty, but since this is a so-called mixed agreement, this means that it has not entered into force in its entirety; in order for this to happen, the parliaments of the Member States must ratify it. Well, in this connection, let me tell you what happened in 2016, before that in the European Parliament, of which I was a member at the time. 89 Members have submitted a proposal for a decision in which they have initiated the European Parliament to refer it to the European Court of Justice in order to declare, in the context of this CETA Agreement, that the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism is identical or contrary to the Treaty of the European Union, an ISDS procedure. At present, this dispute resolution procedure is an opportunity, and this has been the case in the Member States of the European Union, which gives Canada this opportunity, if we accept it, and even the United States, let us add it, because on the basis of a large number of Canadian subsidiaries, the large companies in the United States will also be given the opportunity that CETA will have for them. Well, if they consider that a state restriction on their activities causes them to lose their profits, they may appeal to an arbitration court. What are the reasons for the restrictions? Environmental, public health or other social and economic reasons in which a sovereign country acts on the basis of a mandate from the population. However, the investor, the investor country, may challenge the decision and proceed with such judicial proceedings in the arbitration court. It was shocking to me that the initiative on the basis of which these 89 Members only requested that the Court of Justice of the European Union be consulted in advance as to how they consider their compliance with European Union law was rejected by 419 votes to 258, with 22 abstentions. So this means that those voting with no represent the interests of global economic operators even at the price that the international agreement they support is contrary to those of the EU Treaty. I also wanted an answer from the Minister on this matter. [[Péter Szijjártó consults with his fellow Member.]] But obviously I understand that you can hold consultations at a time like this, so I was talking about... [[Interjection.]] I am glad; I imagine that the Minister can focus on many places. So let me put it very simply: if you think it is right that a large investment company in this country decides that it is in violation of what he has invested on, you said that you should go to the Hungarian court and, where appropriate, there is the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[10.40]] This is right, let the investors come, but if there is a dispute, deal with it in independent courts in Hungary. In comparison, my question is that if we consider this to be the right thing to do in the case of a Dutch company or the Netherlands, then we should not consider it the right thing to do in the case of a Canadian company. So for me, this decision has a separate message. Of course, the European Union does not have jurisdiction to automatically say that an international treaty is invalid and cannot be an agreement, since the other party is not a member of the European Union. However, it is natural for me that if the Court of Justice of the European Union finds it offensive from the point of view of the country concerned and we accept that such arbitration is not an appropriate procedure, that is what national courts are for, and that is what the Court of Justice of the European Union has to do with the issue of acceptance and ratification of CETA in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-09-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor.
u2020-06-09-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10854. Proposal No 1 provides for the publication of an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. As Minister said, a total of 18 out of 22 investment protection agreements between Hungary and certain Member States of the European Union are affected by this agreement. The United Kingdom, Sweden, Finland and Austria did not sign the agreement, so those bilateral agreements need to be terminated bilaterally. With the agreement already mentioned by my fellow Members in the bill, the Hungarian Government will comply with the judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2018. In the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea B. V., the Court held that Articles 344 and 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union must be interpreted as being contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States, whereby an investor in one of the Member States may, in the event of a dispute over investments in another Member State, bring proceedings before a court of choice against that latter Member State. According to the court, the arbitration clauses laid down in bilateral investment agreements within the EU by the Investor State undermine the system of redress provided for by the EU Treaties, thereby endangering the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. The reason for the conclusion of an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements is, therefore, that arbitration clauses contained in bilateral investment protection agreements between Member States are contrary to EU law and are therefore not applicable. As a consequence, from the date on which the latter party became a Member State of the European Union among the parties to the bilateral investment protection agreement concerned, these arbitration clauses could not serve as the legal basis for arbitration proceedings. The arbitration panel should therefore determine the absence of jurisdiction and terminate arbitration cases and annul previous arbitration judgments. The agreement clearly concerns only bilateral investment protection agreements between Member States and does not cover arbitration procedures under the Energy Charter Convention. I would like to draw attention to Articles 2 and 3 of the Agreement, which provide for the termination of the provisions on the expiry of the bilateral investment protection agreements listed in Annexes A and B in order to fulfil the Union's legal obligation arising from the judgment of the Court without further effect. Pursuant to Article 6, the arbitration proceedings concluded may not be reopened or the outcome of a peaceful settlement in arbitration proceedings initiated before 6 March 2018, i.e. prior to the publication of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Article 7 of the Agreement provides for the obligation of the Contracting Parties to jointly notify the parties of the consequences of the judgment of the court concerned set out in the Agreement, or, if necessary, national courts to disregard, annul or refrain from enforcement of arbitration judgments. This Agreement may be made by a declaration in Annex C. I consider it important to highlight the provisions of Article 9, which provides for the initiative of structured dialogue in the case of ongoing arbitration proceedings and for an agreement to be reached. A structured dialogue may be initiated if the ongoing arbitration proceedings have been suspended at the investor's request or if the procedure has already been decided and the investor refrains from implementing it. If the conditions laid down in Article 10 are met, investors may enforce their claim before the Hungarian courts following the termination of pending arbitration proceedings by investors, in accordance with Hungarian and EU law. The possibility of enforcing legal claims by arbitration and thus the execution of the previous arbitration judgment is not possible in the light of the agreement. The provisions of bilateral investment agreements to be terminated shall not be considered to be part of the law applicable by the national court. The national limitation period for recourse to a national court, the duration of which is determined by the applicable national law, shall start from the date on which the investor withdraws the arbitration proceedings where appropriate, shall waive the execution of the decision already taken but not yet definitively implemented or enforced, and shall undertake not to initiate any new arbitration proceedings. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement is governed by Article 2 of the Act on the Procedure of International Contracts. It is an international contract within the meaning of point (a) of the first subparagraph, and accordingly is subject to the provisions of the law on the procedure relating to international contracts. Under the law, recognition of the mandatory scope of the international treaty may take place if, in the light of the text of the contract, the Parliament gives the power to do so in the case of an international contract falling within the competence of Parliament. Following the signature, Parliament shall recognise its binding effect in order to enter into force by adopting the draft law on the publication of the agreement. I would ask my fellow Members to support the recognition of the binding scope of the agreement in the light of the European Union's judgment on the Court of Justice. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-06-09-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My colleagues have analysed this law in great detail. I would just like to say that the MSZP always accepts and supports our obligations under international conventions, and this will be the case with this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-06-09-41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Attention is paid to the agreement or even the clapping of international treaties. I believe that if this is about the fact that there are basic things, foundations in which agreement can be reached, then it is the Democratic Coalition to whom the accession in 2004 was important and valuable, and within the framework of European cooperation we consider it important that this should be a more profound solution. [[10.50]] Therefore, on the basis of the proposal for international treaties, but we will support this decision, this referral, because, as I said, we can get closer to the situation that Hungary has previously undertaken, and in Hungary a form of more integrated, deeper cooperation in various areas, whether through the use of the institutions of law or through the territory of the economy. Here, if it is a bit weird in its wording to decide on an agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements and its publication, there is much agreement between these countries, and I hope that the expansion of investment, the creation of opportunities, and the number of situations that will give rise to a dispute will increase. Accordingly, the agreement between the Member States of the European Union is to be supported by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. No further contributions were made. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-09-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all the speakers for their support for this bill, so that we can comply with the decision of the European Court of Justice. Although Mr Balczó doubted that I could focus on two places at once, I can and would like to answer, but he is not here; but I will do so because of the record, so that he cannot accuse me of not being able to listen to his request, all the more so because he raised an important question. The free trade agreement concluded between Canada and the European Union has also led to very serious debates in the European political, professional and economic public opinion, and I believe that it is often based on false fears. I think that the figures clearly show that the free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union would be useful for us from a Hungarian national point of view, would give Hungarian products greater access to the Canadian market, and would also improve the confidence of Canadian investors in European investment targets. Of course, as the Member said, that agreement is part of an arbitration procedure. He rightly said that Canada is not a member of the European Union, so that an arbitration agreement cannot be excluded from the agreement, but I would like to point out that the type of arbitration that will be recorded in the free trade agreement is already a new type of jurisdiction, where there is an appeal forum where there is not an invisible forum, or, as Mrs Bernadett Szél says, an offshore court is taking place, but a court with a permanent staff of real members is acting in disputes, thereby providing countries with more opportunities to enforce their rights and to be represented in debates. So I think that the free trade agreement concluded between Canada and the European Union is in our national interest. I hope that we will soon be able to hold this debate here in Parliament within a calm framework, given that at some point the issue of ratification will have to come up sooner or later, and if there is agreement between the factions that we can bring it to the plenary, we will, of course, do so and we will explain our arguments in detail. In general, I also think that a wide range of free trade agreements are in line with the interests of the Hungarian national economy, given that the Hungarian economy is an export-oriented economy. In terms of the number of souls in the world, our country is only 92th, but we have been able to deliver the 34th largest export performance in the world in recent years. We are constantly one of the 35 countries that can export over EUR 100 billion. Every year in the last five years, the national economy record for exports has also been broken. Last year, the export/GDP ratio or ratio was around 86-86.5 percent. This shows that the products and services produced by Hungarian people in Hungary are extremely competitive even in the face of very tough competitive conditions on the world market, so in general I can say that the fewer barriers to international trade, whether customs or non-tariff, the fewer obstacles, the better for Hungarian companies. Thus, free trade agreements are generally in the interest of the Hungarian economy, and we are therefore, of course, ready for CETA's parliamentary debate. Here again, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their speeches and their support for the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-44	Thank you very much, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the presentation of an amendment to the Annex to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, Accumulation and Use of Chemical Weapons and their Destruction, signed in Paris on 13 January 1993, pending its closure. Government referral T/10855. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, again in a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-06-09-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I will be gentle, and, of course, I will not take advantage of the time frame at my disposal. Dear Parliament, As a member of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, Hungary is, of course, committed to preventing the use, accumulation and spread of chemical weapons, and we therefore support its efforts in this area as a member. Hungary, the Hungarian government, signed the Chemical Weapons Ban Convention at the beginning of 1993, and then the ratification process took place in Hungary for quite a long time, finally four years later, in 1997 the CIV. It was announced by Law No.3 and, in effect, from that date, it can be said that Hungary will assume the obligations of this Convention. Two years ago, on 4 March 2018 in Salisbury, South England, an assassination was carried out with neurotoxin against an ex-Russian double agent and daughter. The British prime minister, Theresa May, ruled this incident a chemical weapon attack. The neurotoxin Novichs used during the attack made it necessary to update the convention, since this neurotoxin Novichs did not fall within the scope of the Convention until the date of the attack, so it was not listed among the chemicals prohibited by this international agreement. Last year, the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons held the 24th Conference of States Parties, and at this conference it was decided to extend the scope of the Convention to Novich neurotoxin, but this decision makes it necessary to amend the annex containing the list of compounds. [[11.00]] This Annex forms an integral part of the Convention, and the list in this Annex contains chemicals which can be used directly as chemical weapons or using them to produce compounds that can be used as weapons. The investigation of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which oversees the implementation of the Convention and which is intended to investigate possible attacks on chemical weapons, found that the so-called Novichs tried to commit this attack on Salisbury with agents. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Convention is mandatory for all States Parties, including Hungary. The amendment follows the recommendations of the Scientific Advisory Panel of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and the definition of chemical weapons agents previously listed. It is a characteristic of the novichs that, based on a particular chemical basic structure, hundreds of analogue compounds with similar properties may exist, so their most accurate description is possible with their chemical structure. The bill could therefore be referred to as a technical amendment, since the purpose of the bill is to include the active compounds of the noviches described by their chemical structure in the annex to the Convention from now on, on the basis of the Hungarian text of a uniform structure developed by the Secretariat of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons and then prepared with a credible translation. Ladies and gentlemen, The Annexes therefore form an integral part of the Convention within the meaning of Article 17 of the Convention. In view of this, any amendment to any annex should be considered to be an amendment under Act L. on the procedure for international contracting, adopted in 2005, so it is necessary to carry out an appropriate procedure, in Hungarian: it must be brought here to Parliament, the Parliament must discuss it and then, after Parliament's decision to adopt it, it must be published. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the Convention is not only to destroy existing chemical weapons stocks, but also to prevent the re-proliferation of chemical weapons. Our country does not store, manufacture or distribute chemical weapons, and of course the provisions of the Convention are strictly and consistently observed. With this amendment, we are not only fulfilling our international obligations, but also contributing to the strengthening of the destruction and non-proliferation of chemical weapons, in line with the objectives and efforts of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, with the support of this technical amendment, to promote, as a member of the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the ability of Hungary to respect and adapt to all the rules that this organisation has made. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-46	Thank you, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-09-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In March 2018, Sergey Skripal, former Russian double agent and daughter, were hospitalized on suspicion of poisoning in Salisbury, UK. As it turned out later, the agent was the victim of a chemical weapon attack. Although the context of the case is unclear, the incident in question has highlighted the need to amend the Chemical Weapons Convention governing the full ban on a category of weapons of mass destruction. In the Salisbury assassination, an unknown compound called the "novics" was used. The decision to extend the scope of the Convention to that compound was adopted at the 24th Annual Conference of States Parties in November 2019. The amendment entered into force on 7 June 2020 following a grace period of 180 days provided for in the Convention. The international treaty before us therefore aims to destroy existing chemical weapons stocks by States Parties and to prevent the re-proliferation of chemical weapons. The current amendment is binding on all States Parties, so it is also necessary to transpose it into domestic legislation due to the up-to-date follow-up of international obligations and the harmonisation of international and domestic obligations. With the current amendment of the law, we hope to reduce cases such as the attack two years ago. The Fidesz parliamentary group thus supports the adoption of an amendment to the international treaty. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-48	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2020-06-09-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have prepared a brief speech, too, but I do not wish to repeat the speakers before me. Actually, it's against house rules. I just want to note that, unfortunately, as in the 21st century, In the 20th century, technical and technological opportunities are being expanded and not only used for good purposes, we should be prepared for this type of additions and the extension of the table to include new chemicals. Of course, we support the referral. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-09-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-09-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, CHAPTER XX His weapons of mass destruction, chemical weapons, genocides, and atomic attacks of the century have shown mankind the grave dangers they pose. All of us, including us Hungarians, must act against these by every means possible, and our moral duty and responsibility to combat them are our options. Hungary signed the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on 13 January 1993, which was published in the 1997 CIV. It was done by law. Hungary has thus contributed to international efforts to ban a category of weapons of mass destruction. The aim of the Convention is not only to destroy existing chemical weapons stocks, but also to prevent the re-proliferation of chemical weapons. This amendment is necessary because the Convention is more effective and updated than before, and is justified by the decision adopted at the Conference of States signatory to the Convention in November 2019. With this decision, States Parties shall extend the scope of the Convention to so-called Novics agents used in the Salisbury incident on 4 March 2018. Since previously these novich agents were not included in the lists of the Convention and their application for this purpose violates the prohibitions of the Convention, it has become necessary to update the Convention. Security is a top priority for us Christian democrats, so of course we also support the broadest possible action against chemical weapons with the strictest possible international rules and the legal documents that serve it. Chemical weapons are a serious threat today. The attack on our NATO ally in the UK two years ago has shown that international conventions against chemical weapons must also be up-to-date with the development of technology. We Christian Democrats urge the Hungarian government to act against chemical weapons, as it does in international space, by any means possible, as in the fight against terrorism. The fight against chemical weapons also serves the safety and protection of Hungary, the Hungarian people and their allies, and the KDNP faction therefore supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-06-09-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The rare moment when I fully agree with my fellow Member Nacsa's sentences and I would like to join him: we also support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. There are no other candidates for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said. [[11.10]]
u2020-06-09-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your speeches and for your support in order to bring this procedure through Parliament as quickly as possible. I agree with the judgements and predictions expressed that we are facing new types of security challenges. It was also a debate last time at the NATO Summit on the extent to which the new types of challenges are transforming global security systems, to what extent NATO must adapt to this. There is no question that there were Heads of State or Government who were somewhat overdoing it when NATO was compared to an expired record. We disagree. However, we agree that, as we are facing new types of security challenges in the coming period, NATO, as the world's largest and most successful military, strategic and defence alliance, must be prepared for these unprecedented challenges. Unfortunately, we cannot rule out what Mr Balczó had foreseen that Parliament would have to deal with a number of such additions in the coming period. However, I can guarantee you that Hungary will continue to fulfil all its international obligations in this respect. Thank you again for the support speeches. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-06-09-56	Thank you very much, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the proposal for an accelerated trial for the reimbursement of damages and damages caused by the crime until closure. The government referral is T/10860. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Hajas Barnabas, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-06-09-57	Mr President, Dear House, T/10860 in front of the House. A new accelerated procedure will be introduced to facilitate the enforcement of claims for compensation and damages for victims of crime as a separate regulation, as well as a minor amendment to the law on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of offences. We could say that its scale is small, but its content is of greater importance to the victims of crime. The compensation scheme established to compensate for the situation of placement in breach of fundamental rights was introduced by the Law on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain forced measures and detention of infringements on 1 January 2017. Experience in recent years has shown that prison business, contrary to the legislator's original intention, has evolved into an abusive multibillion-dollar financial industry. Persons convicted of criminal offences seriously outrageous to the public could obtain compensation of a million scale, while victims and their relatives could not be sufficiently effectively enforced. In view of this, Article IV of the 2020 Act on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation By 15 June 2020, law suspended the payment of prison congestion procedures and directed the Government to develop a new regulation capable of restoring the natural balance between compensation schemes for victims of crime and inmates. As you know, in view of the Covid-19 epidemic threatening the security of life and property, the government declared an emergency on 11 March 2020 and the subsequent national defence tasks did not allow for the full establishment of the new compensation scheme and therefore T/10528. The bill proposed an extension of the deadlines previously set, which was adopted yesterday by this House. However, it is clear that there is a need to ensure the effective enforcement of victims within this deadline, and that all efforts must be made to ensure compensation for the harm caused by the crime, even during the development of the new, rather complex regulation. Accordingly, yesterday's bill opened up the possibility of making victims' payments and child support claims. At the same time, further action is needed to ensure the effective enforcement of victims' needs. Based on data relating to prison congestion procedures, only around 10 percent of the HUF 9 billion awarded in compensation lawsuits were paid to victims. Despite the fact that the possibility of compensation for harm caused by a criminal offence is still ensured within the framework of the Criminal Procedure Act, its utilisation is apparently inadequate. Pending the development of a new regulatory system, it should be possible to apply simplified rules for offences which have already been settled. In the absence of criminal proceedings, this can only be done within the framework of the civil proceedings. This regulation can also ensure that in the ongoing prison congestion indemnification procedures, in which debit payments are suspended until 31 December 2020, victim claims can be paid. The government has always been committed to better protecting and enforcing victims of crime. Therefore, the government is already taking a decisive step towards the objective pursued, by submitting a bill before you, prior to the revision of the regulation, i.e. the fulfilment of the task defined by the Parliament, and intends to provide procedural facilitation in relation to the rules of civil procedure for victims for whom the criminal proceedings have been finalized and no civil rights claim has been assessed, and civil action has been brought, and their claim has not yet lapsed. Dear House, International examples also show that there are legal systems that explicitly favour rules that vary according to different aspects as a successful alternative to a single set of rules. For example, the UK Civil Procedure Law, which is also familiar with the so-called fast track, can be considered as an accelerated procedure, with two additional procedural routes, including track. The bill before Parliament, along with successful examples, proposes the introduction of an accelerated trial in which victims of crime can enforce their claims for damages and damages. The proposal seeks to provide procedural facilitation for victims whose criminal proceedings have been completed, but in them either they have not enforced their claim as civil rights claims or have been ordered by the court for other legal purposes, but the victims have not brought the civil suit at a later stage, but their claim, as I said, has not yet lapsed. The accelerated case differs in many respects from the provisions of the Civil Procedure Act, and therefore the bill states to the court that it should inform the applicant and the defendant separately of the specific rules of the accelerated case. The proposal significantly facilitates the victim's claim by granting the parties a right to record costs in accelerated litigation and allowing the victim to be sued before the court of residence or residence of the victim. The proposal puts the fast-track case into the jurisdiction of the court, also in view of the possibility of concentrating these actions on the twenty courts to facilitate the development of uniform case-law. In the accelerated trial, the proposal prioritises negotiation through the electronic communications network. This form of negotiation is preferred by the proposal in order to spare the plaintiff a physical encounter with the defendant, thereby preventing or significantly reducing the so-called secondary victimisation of the victim. In the accelerated court case, the court acts out of order and shortens a number of procedural time limits, which are mandatory for both the court and the parties, and does not allow the action to be linked to another action, there are no rules arising from a split case structure in the case, but the proposal also sets procedural limits, for example, to change the action or to change the claim. The proposal also provides for the possibility that, if there is no need for other evidence in the case in addition to documentary evidence, the court will decide the case outside the hearing. In this case, the parties' agreement may also be approved outside the hearing and the judgment may also take place outside the hearing. [[11.20]] In order to speed up litigation proceedings, the Court of Justice and the Curia shall also decide on the appeal and the request for review out of court. Mr President, Dear House, Prison business has also highlighted the inadequacy of victimisation, in addition to industrial processes based on legislation, which exploit the business potential of indemnification procedures. It is the government's task to establish new regulation and legal institutions in new procedures. However, it should be noted that we cannot remain inactive until this task is completed, nor can we give up on the promotion of legitimate victimisation in respect of criminal proceedings that have already been closed. It is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility for victims who do not yet have the possibility of facilitating under the new legislation under development to enforce their claim in their closed case subsequently by means of the accelerated lawsuit presented earlier. The best regulation will not be able to fulfil its mission if the new option is not known to the right holders. To this end, the proposal requires that the prison executioner acting in an indemnification case provide adequate information to the data subjects. Although this task is a significant administrative burden for the court, it is the only way to ensure that victims are adequately informed. It can also be seen from the above that Parliament must decide on a bill for victims of crime, which ensures significant progress. Let us make the claims of the victims more smooth by simplifying the procedure, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill under discussion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Barnabás Hajas Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I would like to give the floor to Dr. Judit Bertalan, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-06-09-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The new Ptk entered into force on 1 January 2018. One of the main objectives of our Code of Procedure was to allow procedures to continue as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. This consideration greatly facilitates the right of the party to the dispute to complete the proceedings within a reasonable period of time. We can all agree that, in addition to the outcome and professional examination of their lawsuits, it is in the most important interest for citizens to conclude their case as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law before us was also born in the light of the aforementioned idea. During the review of the norm text, it can be clearly seen from the lines that this proposal seeks to provide a significant procedural facilitation for victims in whose criminal proceedings have been finalised and their claim for compensation for damage or harm caused by a criminal offence has not been enforced in criminal proceedings or in civil proceedings, provided, of course, that their claim has not lapsed. I do not wish to go into an in-depth analysis of the text of this proposal, given that we have been very familiar with it in detail from Mr Secretary of State's exposé, I would like to refer to only a few but not insignificant provisions. Article 2 The proposal immediately states that the request for an accelerated trial cannot be enforced in the order for payment procedure. It was necessary to lay everything down because, in the event of some possible contradictions, the whole procedure could be extended. The purpose of the bill is in the opposite direction. I also believe that it is important to emphasise that, as a general rule, the negotiation should be carried out by electronic means, according to the proposal. The application and the defence must also indicate to the parties which electronic means are at their disposal. I would also stress this provision, because in this way the plaintiff, the victim, does not need to meet the defendant physically, the defendant. This is a very important and forward-looking regulation, as this will avoid, or at least greatly reduce, the victim's secondary victimisation. We are well aware of the psychic strain and emotional distress of the victim when he sees the person who committed the crime against him and who insults him. The proposal refers the assessment of accelerated litigation to the jurisdiction of the court. This is a very logical idea, because we know that here the conditions for hearing through an electronic communications network that has been given priority in the event of trial are provided. It should be noted from the norm that the draft law establishes an exclusive competence for the determining court. The reason for the jurisdiction is that the applicant adjusts to the place of residence or residence of the victim. Otherwise, the draft does not require the party to represent itself before the court, which will only be required in the proceedings before the referee or the Curia. Dear House, Please allow me, by way of example, to list a number of provisions to facilitate enforcement of claims and to facilitate the closure of the procedure as soon as possible. The draft provides the parties with a right to record costs, so the victim does not have to advance not only the cost but also the cost of any expert proof. The proposal provides for an extraordinary procedure and sets a number of deadlines different from those set out in the Pp. There is no room for intervention in the accelerated trial, counterclaims, offsets, and the lawsuit cannot be linked to other lawsuits. That's what the Secretary of State said. There is a strong role to be played in the written preparation and the trial itself is not separate from the course of litigation and substantive negotiation. It is also important to note that in this new form of litigation, the insurance measure will be ordered without proof of the establishment, quantity and expiry of the claim by means of an authentic instrument or by means of a private document with full evidentiary effect. The swift conclusion of the case will also be facilitated by the fact that, in the event of documentary evidence, the court will decide the case outside the hearing. In this case, the parties' agreement may also be approved outside the hearing and the judgment may be given in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to refer to the provision of the proposal which has made a significant contribution to the proposal and which we cannot go without saying so. During the years behind us, a number of court judgments have been issued that have greatly disturbed society's general sense of justice. The majority of Hungarians expressed their dissatisfaction because of their serious crime, those inmates who have completed their final prison sentences received millions of indemnifications, based on bad detention conditions, for which we say the sun does not shine enough on the window of their detention. The government, hearing the voice of the people, is determined to act, and the goal to be achieved remains to restore and restore the natural balance between the system of compensation for prisoners and victims. In view of this, the legislator intends to focus on broadening the capacity of victims to enforce claims. In the spirit of victim-centred policy approach, the proposal, I quote, states:. A victim who has not been able to enforce his civil-law claim in the prison-crowding compensation procedure for any reason, but who has suffered damage or harm resulting from the crime, can enforce his claim by means of an accelerated trial, on which he is required to be informed by the prison judge. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I do not wish, Honourable Parliament, to quote further the proposal or to comment on what has been said, and the draft summa summarum can be said that, bearing in mind the criteria for better lawmaking, it envisages facilitating the consideration of the lawsuits within a reasonable time, which is perhaps one of the most important demands of citizens. It is also to be welcomed that the ideas that greatly support the enforcement of the victims of crime should be included in the norm. In view of what has been said, the proposed bill will be supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Judit Bertalan. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-06-09-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Hungary Movement has always considered victim protection very important in domestic case-law, and we have always spoken out since we are a parliamentary party, in order to further develop the rights that victims are entitled to. [[11.30]] I'd like to talk a little bit about the past. For the first time since the change of regime, it was the White Ring Public Benefit Association that began to deal with victim protection, which was established in 1989, and became a member of the European international organisation, and, moreover, the legislator kept paying attention to the wider scope of victim protection, but did not put much emphasis on it. It was published in 1999, namely on 7 July, the Government Decision No 1074 on legislative tasks and other measures to protect victims and relatives of crime, return on harm, mitigate their damage. This is a very important decision to define the directives and the way legislation should go in the future. In particular, I would like to draw attention to point 10, which stated that the government is paying particular attention to the practice of recovering the damage caused by the crime in order to ensure that the damage is recovered as soon as possible. The government intends to help victims of the most serious violent crime by mitigating the damage to those in need if it cannot be secured from other sources. So this was already published in the government decision in 1999. On the other hand, we saw that in 2016, however, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a law, where this so-called prison congestion compensation law did not primarily seek to compensate the victims, but the perpetrators. We said it then, and we criticised it deeply, as we said, as in Parliament's debates, for example, yesterday, for example, how this legislation violated the sense of justice of society, and how unworthy it was that the legislator was primarily looking at the interests of the convicts, criminals, their compensation, not the victims. As early as 2016, we drew attention to this in the keynote speaker's speech, namely that victims should be compensated as quickly as possible. In fact, when this law was born, I think that it was also part of this that we have always said this, that it is primarily about compensation for victims and not for criminals. That's why we think it's important that this is finally here. It is interesting even if we are discussing this practically in parallel with the prison congestion law, as it was yesterday. And indeed, we do complain to the governing parties that from 2016 until today they have allowed this legislation to be established in Hungary, as we have drawn attention to the fact that an industry will be established in the course of the debate on the legislation. An industry that will trade money from the state and focus more on indemnification, not compensation for the victims. As we have seen, all this has happened, as the Hungarian state has paid the convicted criminals a total of HUF 9 billion in compensation. We are deeply outraged by the fact that the Hungarian state has spent this amount of taxpayers' money on criminals, not on victims, even though prison congestion could have been removed from this money, since two penitentiary institutions could have been drawn out of these 9 billion forints, which, if we had not paid out to criminals but to do so, would have been possible to eliminate prison congestion and thus not have had to pay millions of compensations in a case that would have rightly triggered the outrage of the entire Hungarian society. This is how we get to the point where we had a bill in early 2020, which at least included the need to draw up legislation on speedy compensation for victims by providing a deadline, and this is how we have the current legislation in ominous form. I also have conflicting feelings about this, because the legislation itself is useful and forward-looking, obviously only when we dealt with a few years ago about changing the civil order, and a whole new civil order has been put on the table in this House, and the new Pp. has been adopted, which is practically a code that completely summarises the procedural rules of the court, then this law breaks the Pp a little bit. Renal and urinary disorders Because it's a special rule outside Pp, and in this case, it should be applied, and Pp. It'll just be an underlying background rule in this case. So, on the one hand, this is my question as to why this could not be regulated within the civil procedure, what justified this, in order to separate the accelerated procedure from the civil procedure, since it would be safe to do so. On the other hand, I see some contradiction in the fact that there is an accelerated regulatory system here, which is very right, but there is a problem that cannot be overcome now, and I do not know when the time will come when this problem will be overcome. It means that this legislation can be applied when the criminal proceedings itself are completed, it is final and an accelerated procedure is launched. Now we see from experience that when it comes to serious criminal proceedings, which may be more difficult, multitasking, expert, and the rest, these criminal cases will go on for years, for up to four to five years, and on the basis of this, fast-track procedural rules cannot be applied, because only when there is a final end to criminal proceedings. So in many cases, in general, we will be faced with a four to five-year criminal procedure followed by an accelerated procedure of one to two months, and we really will not be able to achieve acceleration, because I will obviously stress the four to five-year criminal proceedings, in a difficult, complicated, many-witnessed, expert case, it will certainly be a problem, and the accelerated procedure itself will not be possible. So I see these as a bit of a contradiction, otherwise the content of the law can be agreed to by far the coolest. Obviously, I am pleased that the rapporteur has paid attention to the rules on the competence of the applicant's place of residence, and it is also important that he does not have to travel to the other side of the country, as the case may be, but is determined by his place of residence. I can also agree very much on the right to record costs, because many people are unable to enforce their rights in court or dare to enforce their rights in court, because there is a huge amount to be advanced, which either returns or does not pay back to the plaintiff. And especially if we are talking about the right to register a levy, this means that they can start the procedure much more easily, they can start the procedure more freely, because very often the procedure was not initiated because they knew that there would be no final judgment, and in this case the cost would remain on the plaintiff's neck. Therefore, the right to record costs is justified in any way. Then there are procedural simplification rules, which are actually useful, although here the rules on the trial and substantive negotiation phase of Pp are being broken, which clearly serves to speed up the procedure. It is therefore justified from this point of view, as is the court's obligation to provide detailed information in certain cases, since, as stated in an earlier section of the proposal, representation of a lawyer is not mandatory. There are serious deadlines, which must be respected, for lodging or declaring an defence in respect of 30 days or 8 days, so the motions for proof must be briefly marked and, indeed, the failure to comply with the time limits will, where appropriate, be a limitation. [[11.40]] The electronic procedure has been dealt with in front of me. In this regard, I note that it is very important to have electronic contact, because it is obvious that the victim is reluctant to meet in person in the event of a violent crime, and is reluctant to stay in the same airspace with the person who committed a violent crime against him. And indeed it is unworthy to wait in the court's hallway for entry together, where, where appropriate, the perpetrator can threaten his former victim with signs, looks, or anything. So electronic communication is very important. By closing the first instance procedure, the second instance procedure is also accelerated, 45 days and 30 days, respectively, available to the second instance court. There is no trial, nor can the parties request, so the file will be the case for a possible appeal by the court of second instance. On this basis, it can be seen that this law will in any way lead to a forward-looking accelerated procedure. I would have preferred to have this law on the Parliament's table a long time ago. I would like to draw your attention to one more thing: the 2005 CXXXV. a law on the assistance of victims of crime and public compensation. Obviously, in a secondary manner, as I have already referred to the Government Decision 1074/99, which has already decided that the State should, where appropriate, enter into the compensation scheme. This law already clearly defines the amount of aid and the amount of aid that can be granted. This law also has problems, since, on the one hand, it narrows the amount very significantly, and also the situation in which victims can receive compensation. So it is likely that, along with this law, this law should be brought before the House sooner or later, because it could and should be made amendments that would also be forward-looking for the future in terms of victim protection. That is why I think it is very important, and I propose to the government to take up and update this legislation, to pay attention to this and to modernise the legislation. One more thing. As regards compensation, I referred to the 2005 CXXXV. by law, that the State had previously delegated this task to civil society organisations, for which it has provided support at the chapter level, even in the Finance Act. Such was the National Public Security and Crime Prevention Foundation, which performed these tasks primarily. In the budget chapter of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the amount that had to be handed over to the National Public Security and Crime Prevention Foundation was set among the appropriations managed by the chapter, and later it was taken over by the Public Foundation for Safe Hungary, and then it became a state task from 2005 onwards. Once again, I ask the government to review the 2005 CXXXV. law, and we're gonna bring that up with the speeding-up rules. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-06-09-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-06-09-63	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10860 on the accelerated trial for the damage caused by the crime and the reimbursement of damages. The purpose of the bill is to make it easier for victims who, although the criminal proceedings have been finalized, but the damage caused by the crime or the penalty has not been repaid, because it has not yet been claimed by the victim, but the Ptk. It hasn't expired yet. In order to achieve this goal, the bill amends the 2016 CXXX on Civil Procedure. In addition to the provisions of Law No 13, as well as the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement proceedings, the 2013 CCXL. the provisions of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us first look at the changes to the provisions on civil procedure. First of all, the legislator sets out which victims are entitled to compensation for this accelerated trial. Since the accelerated case differs from the general civil order in a number of respects, the bill requires the court and the parties to act in this accelerated case. As regards jurisdiction and jurisdiction, the accelerated trial falls within the jurisdiction of the court of residence of the victim. In order to facilitate enforcement of claims, the bill provides for a right to record costs through the Pp. amendment. In order to be able to close the fast-track case as soon as possible, the bill provides for an out-of-court procedure by amending Pp. in such a way that there is no room for intervention, counterclaim, set-off, and that the lawsuit itself cannot be linked to any other lawsuit. The bill, with the Pp. amendment, provides an opportunity for the court to rule the case out of court in the event of documentary evidence. In this case, the parties' agreement may also be approved outside the hearing and the judgment of first instance shall be given outside the hearing. However, where other evidence is required in addition to documentary evidence, the Court of First Instance will consider the applicant's action at trial. There shall be an appeal against the judgment at first instance. In order to speed up the appeal procedure, the court of second instance shall decide on the appeal outside the hearing. The Curia has the right to request a review of the final judgment of the second instance, in order to speed up the review procedure, the Curia shall decide on the request for review outside the hearing. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now let us look at the changes to the provisions of the Bv Act. First of all, the legislator has a 70/B. § It adds that if, on the basis of a decisive decision taken against the sentenced person, it can be established that the victim's civil rights claim has been ordered by the court on another lawful course or that there is a victim of a criminal offence which has not been enforced in criminal proceedings, but which has resulted in damage or damage to the criminal offence, the judge of execution shall inform the victim of the possibility of bringing an accelerated civil action for the damage caused by the offence or for the reimbursement of the charge if his claim has not yet expired under the Civil Code. In addition, in view of the large number of indemnities cases, the Bv Act is also amended in view of the fact that the procedural time limit for prison judges is increased in order to provide sufficient time to find victims and to carry out other necessary measures effectively. [[11.50]]
u2020-06-09-64	Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian Democrats emphasize the importance of protecting victims as well as of compensation for victims. On this basis, we support the T/10860 on the accelerated procedure for the reimbursement of damages and damages caused by the crime. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-65	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, They have often heard me speak for a long time, argue for a long time about a proposal, and express my criticisms. This time you will not hear my long criticisms of this proposal, especially given that the speakers before me have long said its contents, I think that Mr Secretary of State, my colleague Vejkey, who was before me, has also said, and of course, Csaba Gyüre has mentioned his history, and he has, in fact, carefully formulated additional tasks in this area, which can otherwise be agreed with. So I'd just like to say a few corner phrases. One is that the MSZP has suffered very clearly the injury, and is on the side of the victims. So we consider it very important to protect victims, and we think it is very important that they are affected, that they can do so as quickly as possible, and that they can do so more effectively. In light of this, in fact, by assessing the specific proposal, this proposal serves this purpose and makes enforcement more effective. So not surprisingly, perhaps, but I'll tell you that we can support this in this sense. Of course, it can be said in a constructive way, with a positive intention of criticism, and it has also been said to me. I think that these should be taken into account. Let me tell you this: it may also be worth simplifying the possibility of using a protective lawyer in this procedure. I think that would also serve the wider application and effectiveness of this procedure. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-06-09-66	So, in view of all this, I look forward to what further changes will be made, how the proposal will be made, the text of the norm in the coming weeks. But once again, the MSZP is on the side of the victims, and accordingly, it will support any proposal in Parliament that serves their interests. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-06-09-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is a bill in front of this House whose aim, as many speakers have already summarised before me, is to ensure that victims of crime receive the damage they have caused as soon as possible and the damages they receive. What is more natural than that, and I say this on behalf of DK, to express that both parts of this sentence or this bill are very important, in Hungarian, that the timely judgment, in Hungarian, is that the judgments, if possible, should be delivered as soon as possible and justice be served on the issue, are always an important social need, always an important expectation. So any proposal that points in the direction of the earlier delivery of judgments or the earlier remedying of justice problems, cases, cases, is always to be supported, always beneficial, always a good thing. This law is pointing in this direction, moving in this direction. It is also of the same importance that if a person is already a victim of a crime, his compensation, his damages or compensation, if possible, should happen as soon as possible, that is, at all, and then it should happen as soon as possible. So this proposal is good, well founded, very important, and it takes this issue in a useful direction, and as the people before me have highlighted many, many of the detailed rules of this, these are all important and good points, I would not repeat them. I'd rather talk about what raises thoughts. One of these, which inevitably always arises when dealing with a case like this, and by the way, I have a feeling of déjà vu, because perhaps two weeks ago when I was negotiating certain laws on the subject of justice, I said exactly the same things to Mr. Secretary of State, who was sitting opposite me. We know that a significant part of these cases, a significant part of these problems have been on the table for years. So it is always in our mind that we could not have taken these steps sooner, we could not have discussed this proposal earlier, because perhaps we would have helped more people with this law and with this proposal. So we think it's too late to take this step in the right direction, but it's too late. In addition, if I am allowed to say such an outburst here, we are talking about settling a special, specific situation, but we know from the statistics on justice that the lawsuits are typically delayed, they last for years, there is a constant citizen discontent in this regard, and this must also reach the pro-government representatives, not just us, opposition representatives. Therefore, there would be a need, as the Secretary of State has said, to open a fast track next to a normal track and, as far as possible, try to speed up judgment. My other problem with this bill is that we don't give too little, so to speak, not too little to help, couldn't increase help. I am thinking here that it will only be possible to use this fast track in matters that arise after the entry into force, if we are already using it, so not on pending cases, while we have discussed a number of legislative proposals here in recent months, a number of life-threatening solutions have been introduced by pro-government representatives and the government, where the entry into force has already covered the ongoing cases. Why is it not possible to do so here? The question arises, and it is already a matter of substance that the State should not play any part in this, so that compensation for the victims has no place, whether in a certain well-managed, isolated area, for the State to actually accept the payment of the damage and, if it so pleases, for those to whom it should be, for the State to play a role, and not for the relationship between two people, or for one of its financial situations. There is no indication in the proposal of the time limit for enforcement, so how this relates to this issue, when it begins. Therefore, the time for enforcement to be open is unclear from this proposal, or it is not clear to us by reading the general explanation. It is also important to note that the proposal itself takes account of the fact that this could, or at least should, cause additional burden on the prison judges. It is proposed to increase certain procedural deadlines. What I would suggest here is that on the margins of this proposal an impact assessment of this proposal has been carried out, if you will, so, in Hungarian, that the organisation can bear these extra loads or this sudden extra load. In this connection, I ask what I will always ask Mr Secretary of State that he has been consulted with the professional organisations that will have to implement this and whose activities in this area will be carried out.
u2020-06-09-68	To sum up, we are therefore talking about a proposal in a very good direction, a complex package of proposals, but it still needs to be detailed or at least explained at these points. I look forward to your reply to this, Mr State Secretary. Thank you very much. [[12.00]]
u2020-06-09-69	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a 15-minute time frame. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/10860. There is a debate on a proposal on a serial number which aims to ensure that when victims of a crime submit claims for damages or charges for damages, these procedures can be completed within the shortest possible time limit. There is no lawyer in the country today who does not welcome this proposal, given that the practice of the last thirty years has led us all to believe that, unfortunately, victim protection was not effective enough to pay off the damage caused by the crime as soon as possible. I therefore welcome the proposal, of course, and allow me, Mr Secretary of State, and allow me, fellow Members, to speak for a few thoughts on the proposal, on the one hand, and, on the other, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the relations that I hope might give the judicial wallet some thought. This proposal will not be incorporated into the civil procedure, but will continue as a special piece of legislation in addition to the civil procedure, only Article 15. Paragraph 2 introduced two paragraphs which fall within the provisions of the Penalty Act, according to which the judge of the prison is responsible for the payment of compensation, damages for the sentenced person or, in the context of that, compensation for the victims. We are, of course, pleased that the legislator or the legislator believes that these proceedings can end effectively in a shorter period of time, but I must speak on a matter, which concerns the law on criminal proceedings and the issue of civil law in criminal proceedings. It is certainly not news to any of my fellow lawyers that, in criminal proceedings, when the victim is first interrogated, it is among the first questions that he claims civil rights. This is an important issue because the fundamental element of criminal proceedings is that a serious emphasis is already placed on the reimbursement of the harm caused by the criminal offence in the order of duty of the criminal authority. This proposal states that such a procedure and such an accelerated procedure will take place if there is no judgment of civil law in criminal proceedings, it will be moved to another way of law, as is usually the case in judgments, or the victim does not make any civil rights claim at all. Why am I bringing this up now? I am bringing this up because it is very important that we also analyse this question from the point of view of case law. All of us who have been on any side of any lawsuit or criminal trial, we know that it is quite convenient for judges, for criminal judges not to have to make civil claims. On the one hand, the reason for this is that they are criminal judges and not civil judges, perhaps they have little insight into the legal background or case law of damages, and they do not want to make a decision that may later be found not to be justified, moreover, although they do not follow the review of criminal convictions, but they may be concerned about the fact that this may be the reason why they are repealing, so it should be known that for judges the judgment of civil claims is such a hot potato that they are trying to throw away, which is understandable to some degree, but it is not understandable in many cases. In view of the fact that this accelerated procedure is about the fact that even the prison judge is responsible for the fact that when such a claim, such as the prisoner's claim for compensation, comes before him, he must be declared to the victim that he wishes to make a civil claim if he does not wish to do so by then. From this point of view, I have a request to the judicial portfolio that it should be considered if, in this accelerated procedure, we say that, in the civil case, the judge may assess the application for compensation or for damages, so that all the documents necessary for the decision are available, why we do not do so in parallel, either in criminal proceedings or in the investigative department or later, during his hearing, whether or not the victim's civil rights claim should be dealt with, the criminal judge should have the task of calling the victim for the last time before the hearing is closed to submit his civil claim and, if he can prove his claim by means of documents, submit it. Although it is a fact that this civil litigation can save a great deal of time in the accelerated way, it is precisely so that the courts will not be burdened unnecessarily with such a question under their already heavy burden, if, by the way, there is sufficient documentary evidence in criminal proceedings to assess the damage, and we do encourage criminal judges to do so, if, of course, all the data are available in criminal proceedings to assess civil rights claims. We see many times that if the civil rights claim is presented in summary terms in proceedings, in criminal proceedings, it is much lower than if later presented as a civil law claim in civil lawsuits, because the victim says that at least I have received it, at least as much of the harm I have suffered is paid, and on the one hand, the system of justice is not burdened with double procedures, and secondly, the victim of the crime receives this compensation or damages even sooner. It is very welcome in the proposal put forward that it will shorten all civil procedural deadlines, as this is an essential element of the accelerated procedure. I also welcome the fact that legal representation is not even mandatory at the forensic forum, it is also very appropriate, although I find it difficult to imagine that the victims will start doing this without a legal representative, it is true that judges have a great deal of responsibility to inform the party acting without a representative about the way in which the proceedings are conducted, but I think that this ease will at least accelerate the opening of proceedings. I think it is very important to take one more question here, since we are talking about this issue, and I am really bringing up another aspect because I do not want to repeat the presentation of my fellow Members before me, and this is the following: it was very much from the point of view of this proposal, and it was the most important point in the expozee of our pro-government fellow Member, that recently the basic element that started to establish, on the one hand, to limit them and, on the other hand, to pay at least the sums already made there as compensation for the victims, and thus to include those fees, damages and compensation in the victim's interests, was the fundamental element. Yes, but there are many times that the damage caused by the crime cannot be recovered, even if it is a final judgment of the court, because the perpetrator does not have any property, because not all offenders go to court for various damages, so the effective recovery of the victim's claim for damages depends on the activity of the perpetrator. Therefore, if it were up to me to settle this issue, just in order to make it clear to citizens that we would like them to be protected and protected by the state not only on a legislative level but also on a practical level, it would be very appropriate to have a regulation that, in my view, when a court awards compensation, if a final court ruling cannot be recovered within a certain period of time, let us say, within a year, because the perpetrator does not have any assets or income from which it can be done, I would definitely advance it in the position of the State and be able to collect it without limitation. [[12.10]] However, a man does work after a while, after some time he will have some other kind of wealth, and the power of the state, the power of the state, allows him to stand up to the criminal instead of in such a situation, because that's when citizens would feel that whatever spirituality comes from this legislative proposal wants to define and represent it in the fullness of the government and the legislator, and he doesn't want this proposal to be used only in the event that criminals can claim different compensations during the execution of the sentence. So that's why I thought I'd tell you this, too, since the representative of the judicial government is here. I would like to return to my original idea, and this is a question of civil rights in criminal proceedings. If the documents are available in relation to a victim's grievances, for example, what I mean here, if there has been personal injury, don't give me a god, death, and the heirs are already victims of the lawsuit or witness in the lawsuit, and they can claim a claim, then there is definitely an expert opinion. So we no longer need to double, because expert opinion is already available in criminal proceedings. If you need to be able to prove your search that, until you have achieved this act, what capacity you had to work, what work you were able to do, there are documentary evidence of your income until then, the expert opinion states that he is capable of working or not working, there is almost a system of documents to judge the judge, county compensation, and how much. What I'd like to ask of the judicial government is that if you're going to be so special, Pp. In addition to the rules in place for these cases, it is important that the other leg be extended to include the judicial involvement in criminal proceedings, in relation to civil rights needs, because I think that this makes the system coherent. If this proposal does not say that, in the event that a civil-law claim has not been lodged or has not been judged by the court, this accelerated procedure exists, then let us also create that criminal courts should do everything to avoid the end of the various criminal cases where there are really victims and indeed the damage to the victim can be detected, and that they should help to ensure that, in particular, in cases where all the documents are available, the criminal-tributor does not finish the criminal-court case at least without the appeal. I do not think, by the way, that this should be a question only for civil courts, not even because criminal proceedings are taking too long. Let us not forget that it is also a condition that the criminal proceedings are finalized and that guilt has been established. This is an important subject, isn't it? So these fast-track procedures, if they commit such a crime today, can start in about 3.5 years, because we also know about the delay in criminal proceedings, that a civil suit may be concluded very quickly today, but if it is a prerequisite for criminal proceedings, then it is not recently available to the victim. I would like to say one more thing, which I would also like to say to the judicial government from this very point of view. After the criminal proceedings have gone a long way, there are a lot of cases where the perpetrator is clear, and the harm suffered is clear. I think that if, for example, the perpetrator acknowledges the crime and the extent of the damage can be assessed both from a professional and a documentary point of view, I can also imagine that at least the state will be able to bear an advance in the course of the proceedings. It's the most philanthropic, the most civilistic thought ever. For me, it is very important for victims to feel that they are under the increased protection of the state, under greater protection than those who commit crimes, because many people in Hungarian society today feel that criminals have more rights than victims, so this absolute protection and absolute responsibility would be a fully coherent victim protection system that, I think, could bring a great deal of benefits to the government. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-70	One hundred words at the end, thank you for the suggestion. We will, of course, vote in favour. With great respect, I ask the judicial government to consider my points. Thank you for your attention. [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members, if they wish to make use of it.
u2020-06-09-71	I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Barnabas Hajas, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thank you very much for the comments that were made in the debate. I would also like to respond fundamentally to these, because I believe that very important issues have been addressed, and I may be able to help the work of the Members and Members by drawing attention to the instruments existing in the legal system. I feel a little like we've been in an endless cycle with Congressman Gyüre about prison-crowded regulation in 2016. He always tells me why the Jobbik didn't vote for him. And I have no choice but to finally tell you why that regulation has been made, because there are constantly misunderstandings. It is important to know that, after 2010, despite the fact that the regulation has not changed substantially, a procedural tsunami relating to detention conditions before the European Court of Human Rights, which would have significantly burdened the central budget, and that a much simpler and otherwise much more favourable procedure was established. We have already said that we would not have assumed that this option would be used at the same level as it had done, and we did not assume that a significant part of the compensation awarded would not be passed on to the victims. The victims had about 10 percent. I would like to remind this House that the compensation and the damages are for and affect the victims; those who are burdened, if this is the case in relation to their accommodation conditions, are entitled to compensation. I don't want to go into this civil-law dogmatical foundation, but there's a significant difference between the two. By the way, speeding up criminal proceedings is the new Be. it was adopted and its entry into force, so much so that the new Be. more than half of the criminal proceedings under its control will be dealt with and finalised at the preparatory meeting and in other simplified procedures. So the experiences, the perceptions that were previously related to prolonged criminal proceedings, are the new Be. the situation has not been fully or completely described since its entry into force. It is important to note that in the event of criminal detention, civil law claims cannot be postponed in the course of criminal proceedings or in relation to statute of limitations, I will also quote Ptk. in relation to the limitation of civil claims, but it is here that why the regulatory solution was necessary for the legislator to lay down rules for some simplified, some kind of accelerated lawsuit. It is important to know that in every period, from time to time, there is a need to establish some kind of accelerated, simplified procedural rules. In Hungary, the foundations of the modern civil lawsuit were created by an accelerated lawsuit, the 1893 article on the somma procedure, but the old Pp. There was also a known fast-track trial type under its scope; this is known as a small court case, which existed in Pp. since 2008. It should be stressed that Pp. should be used in these procedures, so that even in the case of accelerated litigation, Pp. rules should be used, only the specific or, if you like, specific rules should be laid down in the proposal. It should be noted quickly that similar solutions are also reflected in specific legal cases in certain sectoral laws, so the proposal cannot be considered unicable in this respect. [[12.20]] Due to the special purpose of the procedure, it is justified not to have a split-option. Also due to the existing historical documents, it is justified not to have a split-option, and this is an immediate response to why this accelerated procedure cannot be used in pending proceedings, because there, because of the split-option, the lawsuit itself is under way with a completely different procedural regime. It should be stressed that I have mentioned this in criminal proceedings as well as in the expozee, and it is also partly addressed to Congresswoman Varga-Damm that civil law needs can be enforced. In the expozee, I referred to the fact that although the possibility of this is guaranteed in Be., its utilisation is apparently inadequate. Pending the development of a new regulatory system, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of simplified rules for offences which have already been dealt with. It is clear from this that the review of the rules on criminal proceedings is ongoing with regard to the enforcement of civil claims and that the judicial government is working on it. Therefore, this acceleration option currently under discussion was an opportunity for those who did not enforce their civil claims. I would quote the Civil Code Book Six, 533. § Old-age clause (paragraph 1): The rules of the limitation period shall apply to compensation with the exception that in the event of damage caused by a crime, the claim shall not be valid for more than five years until the criminality of the offence has lapsed. The period of limitation of criminality is interrupted by the judgment, so that such proceedings may be brought for at least five years after the final judgment. This means that this is a significant opportunity for victims. It should be stressed that the issue of victim assistance and victim protection regulation has been raised several times, but I remember that, perhaps, Member Mr Varga, Mr Sebian-Petrovsk and Congresswoman Varga-Damm, obviously, the system of victim assistance, victim assistance should be seen as a uniform system, taking into account the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance, the provisions of the Law on Victim Assistance. Accordingly, victims of crime will be treated under more favourable conditions if they require legal assistance, and accordingly, under the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance and the Victim Assistance Act, they will most likely also be entitled to some kind of legal assistance. I have not answered one of the questions raised by Mr Sebian-Petrovsk: the proposal has been agreed with the OBH, so the rapporteur has complied with the Bsi. the obligation to agree in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-72	Last but not least, one of the points raised by Congresswoman Varga-Damm cannot be stressed enough. I have already said the position on victim support, and we are treating it as a single system, that we are constantly monitoring the functioning of the victim assistance system and that we are taking the necessary measures to take, if you like, a holistic approach to the enforcement of victims of crime. But in this context, the missing or to be stressed element that should be highlighted is that the most effective enforcement of civil rights needs must take place within the framework of criminal proceedings. That is why the Criminal Procedure Law is still in place today, and, as I have said, the regulation is in the process of effectively enforcing civil rights in criminal proceedings, in practice as well. I can tell you that the government is working on this right now. Thank you very much for your attention. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend Act I of 2004 on sport will follow until closure. Presentation by Mr Erik Bánki, Member Fidesz T/10858. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-73	First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a very short, to say, technical amendment to the bill before this House, because there is only one section that is being amended by the proposal, more precisely by extending it to a paragraph, which is nothing more than the regulation on the transfer of rights of departure. Why is this happening? I must tell you that the previous regulation, thank God, was overdue. I have also been a member of the Bureau of MLSZ since 2010, and we have had a number of problems in the previous period, when the teams have tried to relocate their seat from one settlement to another, from the company or from the association in which they operated, by separation to another country, to move the right of departure to another settlement because they found more favourable economic conditions there. This unblessed situation was very rightly regulated by the Sports Act earlier, and precisely by the 33rd edition of the Law on Sports. Paragraph (2). Today, however, we have come to the point that, thanks to the recent success of re-training in several teams, talent has been raised and developed, who can not only be re-enforced, but also in the adult championship. This, thank God, applies not only to football, but also to other team sports. We therefore believe that the time has come to amend the previous regulation with a new point, and to allow the company to start a team not only in the lower classes, but also in the same class or higher classes, if, of course, it does not leave a public debt behind. After all, it is very important that we can only modify the existing regulation if the law contains guarantees that the public debt cannot be left behind by clubs or associations wishing to start a new team on the right of departure of the former association or sports enterprise. It is also natural for associations to decide in their own regulations or in their rules of competition on the conditions and conditions under which the teams in that class may compete. Of course, the law sets out a framework, giving them an opportunity to be in a professional class and competed in the event that the professional association in question supports whether the talented players of replacement age or large associations from which previously amateur teams can already participate and compete in a professional class thanks to the results of the past years, in which case they should be able to withdraw from the former sports business and operate a team that has already started in professional football or any other team sport as a stand-alone business. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-74	So once again, ladies and gentlemen, a technical amendment is needed, an amendment to the bill that, thanks to the development of sports in the past period, would open up new opportunities and new horizons for team sports associations and associations competing in the federal competition frameworks of team sports. Please support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Madam Secretary. [[12.30]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, T/10858 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport submitted to Parliament The aim of this bill, as we have heard from the Member, is to allow for the transfer of the sports organisation's right to enter and enter the sports association's competition system and championship in a new case and to assist in its essential conditions. We know that the right of departure is a right attached to the person of a sports organisation, and the transfer of this right under the Sports Act is, in principle, null and void. However, where necessary, exceptions should be defined, which are essentially due to the different nature of amateur and professional championship schemes. The exceptions ensure a continuous assessment of the development and changes in professional work of sports organisations participating in different levels of championships and their adaptation to the real situation. On the basis of this, the exceptions allowed in the Sports Act concerned in particular the entry into the professional championship or the exit from the amateur competition system, and the Sports Act allowed the transfer of the right of departure in the light of the expansion of the forms of sport organisation, such as the emergence of foundations for the development of replacement training. On this basis, the development of sports organisations, the expansion of their activities, participation in and diverging requirements in more than one championship system justify allowing the transfer of the right of departure according to the bill. And I do not need to stress that the Hungarian government sees the field of sport as a strategic sector, in line with which it supports any initiative that can be interpreted in the area of freedom of organisation of sports organisations and optimises the participation of sports organisations in competition systems and championships. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-76	Therefore, the Government agrees with the objectives set out in the bill, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-77	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz Group. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Law I of 2004 on Sport, including Articles 31, 32 and 33 §) regulates the basic conditions for starting and naming sports organisations in the competition system of the sports association, in Hungarian, in the championship. The current legislation, to be exact, is the sport law. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 states that the right to start in a competition system, in a tournament, cannot be transferred, that the contract to do so is null and void, but also defines some exceptions. The exceptions relate mainly to the right of departure in the event of the entry into an amateur competition system, the entry into a professional competition system and the start-up of a number of competition systems between sports organisations and sports undertakings in a relationship with each other. Just now, the rapporteur, Mr Bánki Erik, said that the previous regulation exceeded time. I, too, fully agree with this, and the new bill that we are discussing now proposes a new exception to allow the transfer of the right of departure and entry if the sports undertaking establishes or participates in an economic company to participate in the same or higher championship class of the same sports association, a competition system, organised and organised by the same sports association. I would add that the amendment of the law is proposed to be applicable as early as the entry into the 2020-2021 competition system for the championship. This is a grassroots initiative by sports organisations and associations towards sports associations and the legislator. On behalf of the Fidesz fraction, our faction fully supports the submission. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-78	Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian sport is our national treasure, which we can all be proud of. Hungary and the Hungarian people are successful both in recreational and professional sports. Our country occupies a prominent position in the ranks of the nations of world sports. The love of sport, whether we participate as athletes or as viewers, is capable of bringing together very different people from each other, regardless of political party position or worldview. In front of the bleachers, open-air screens or at home, all of us cheer for the same racers in red and white-green colors during international sports competitions, and obviously in all sports, everyone has their favourite team in the national championships as well. When a Hungarian athlete or team wins a prestigious position in some prestigious international competition or the Olympics, or our own team performs well in the home tournament, we are all a little more proud of our national performance. Whether it is a professional or an amateur sport, sport increases endurance and struggle, contributes to maintaining our health and a better quality of life. Recognizing this, in this spirit the national government introduced everyday physical education in public education, and in this spirit it has built up in the past ten years a large number of swimming pools, sports halls, gymnasiums, outdoor sports fields. The current bill before us amends Act I of 2004 on Sport in order to allow the transfer of the right of departure or entry or competition to the company established in order to start in the same or higher championship class, which is necessary to further develop the system of secondary training and to promote further quality development between adult championship classes. I think it is right that the sports law is stricter in this case. It is right, as the Secretary of State has said, that there is basically no possibility of this transfer, but life and time have shown that exceptions are necessary. I am in favour of keeping the stricter requirements, but at the same time, we should adapt to lifelikeness in the exceptions. Obviously, it is well known that this amendment of the law will now be the first place to save football in Pécs. I would like to thank my fellow Members from Baranya County, who have put in a long effort to bring about this amendment. The representatives of Baranya County have joined forces to save football in Pécs. I think it's important that we don't let big-time sports clubs get lost in history. Obviously, this exception will be able to help sports clubs on a number of occasions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-80	I am glad that for the first time it will be the rescue of Pécs football that this law will be able to help. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Mr Dezső Szigély, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! At the beginning, I had the impression that there would be a long, big debate that other opposition colleagues were not even present in the Chamber, since the proposal itself was to amend a substantive paragraph, which could be regarded as meaningful. However, it can also be seen that this is not a common situation, it is not a common condition, that a single paragraph of an entire law is what is planned to be amended. That's why it makes you wonder what the reason is, and they don't do that. And yet here we had a pro-government fellow Member who beat this through his own faction, the KDNP faction, agreed with the government, and took on this rather small torturing to bring this amending proposal to the House, while we are talking about an amendment to a single paragraph. So it's bound to move in your mind to see what the real reason for that is. I'm convinced, knowing Fidesz's legislation, that it's a specific case or two. Obviously, it will come to light in the coming period. And although this directly affects the entire sports law, the whole Hungarian sport, but given that, as the author mentioned earlier, Mr Bánki, he is a member of the presidency of the Hungarian Football Federation, so I can conclude that somewhere around football there will be some kind of change, a concrete case that has led to this whole legislation. If we look at what the proposal is, so which paragraph you want to amend in the coming period, it is a shocking thing. They wish to amend that the right to start in the championship cannot be transferred, so far. You can't be transferred! In fact, the legislator then took advantage of the suspicion lawsuit that there would certainly be people who would try to avoid it in some way, so the law continued to be null and void. I sense from this that this was a very definite and very categorical prohibition. [[12.40]] However, the Member has now appeared here on the grounds that the situation that has arisen requires that we amend this. This is interesting because we live today in a world where the participants do not conform to the law, but the participants will be the ones for whom they form a law here. This was not the first case, there were countless other cases, concrete cases, especially economic cases, when this appeared before Parliament. I think it was a better time when the fate of championships was decided on the field, not in smoky small rooms, pubs, and it wasn't the money that was primarily decisive, but the talent, the small community that athletes created there, we suspect is something about football, so it is the local community whose members fought for each other in the championship. I think that if we look at what happened, it will become clear that this proposal is for someone to handle this whole story. There is one more interesting point to this proposal. The way in which legislation is generally formulated is always something for the future, setting out a future period for which stakeholders can prepare. This legislation also has an interesting scope, according to its wording, within five days of its publication. This can be translated into Hungarian: tasty. This means that there is something concrete here not for the first time, a specific character to whom the Member has acted. And I think that this is a violation of the spirit of sport, and it gives me a chance that the real results will not be achieved on the field. In football, anyway, from year to year, from tournament to tournament, there are different news. I think that this measure, this amendment of legislation, will strengthen this in people, and it will confirm that it will not be the results achieved on the track that will give this sport its real value.
u2020-06-09-82	Many people think, and I am sure that this was the idea for my fellow Member, that various administrative measures could help with the particular sport or sport situation. And I think that Congressman is not helping, but hurting. He insults and humiliates all those who honestly want to participate in the various championships in the spirit of sport. In the opinion of many people, the situation has come up again when the championships can be bought, it's just a matter of organization. This proposal is not acceptable to us, and obviously we will not support it.
u2020-06-09-83	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, DK. Here you go, Congresswoman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to apologize for not being here personally during the speech by the rapporteur and the lead speakers, but my colleagues assured me of what you said. So I will try to take part in this debate accordingly. Thank you for your understanding. I would like to point out that, overall, the amendment contained in the bill cannot be supported by the Democratic Coalition faction, as I must say to us, in conjunction with the speech of the authors and the pro-government speakers, the intention remains unclear, and we are also afraid of what has started in Hungarian sports over the past period, namely that there may be some kind of underlying intention behind the amendments, which we do not yet see clearly. But in our view, the amendment is absolutely unnecessary in this form, since the scope of the exceptions has become complete, the right of departure will be unlimitedly transferable in the future, so the scope of the exceptions will lose meaning and, in principle, the prohibition has become meaningless. The amendment submitted has revealed to us that the concept of the current sport law needs to be corrected, as the current law has some confusion in terms of definitions. The right of departure shall be interpreted only for sports organisations and shall comply with the right of registration and shall be identified even by participation in the competition system. Although the definition of the right of entry cannot be found in the law, the Sports Act defines exclusivity for, for example, the Hungarian Olympic Committee, in line with the Olympic Charter, the names of sports and athletes, and the Olympic events. The Democratic Coalition faction is of the opinion that the right of departure and the right of entry can also be applied to athletes, since they are both subject to the right to play. In this approach, the right of departure and the right of entry should be interpreted and interpreted in accordance with the logic of legal capacity and capacity. In addition, when transferring the use of the right to play, the athlete in fact becomes transferable to the sports organisation, in other words, that he is ready to enter the right to compete. In our view, the right of play as a person's property and the right of departure attached to the right to play, which applies to the athlete, are incomprehensible. In this approach, toy law is similar to the right of departure and the right of entry, as copyright constitutes property rights from a conceptual point of view to the person to whom the author belongs. Due to our commitments, Hungarian legislation must be in line with the regulations of international associations and international organisations of sport, and therefore, in the case of the international and Olympic appearance of Hungarian competitors, the conditions of the right of departure and the right of entry must be in line with the rules of international sports associations and the International Olympic Committee. I have been talking about the legal part of the amendment, but I would like to say a few thoughts about the current domestic sport life. So perhaps the authors will better understand why I started my speech by fearing that this amendment involves some kind of underlying intention that we have not yet been able to find out. There are only three paragraphs of this document, which lies before us, and which you have submitted, we cannot really interpret the purpose for which it is intended. For years, it has been observed that various pro-government, first-line or second-line politicians have been placed in the leadership seats of the associations of different sports sectors, so that they can control even the huge amounts of taxpayers directly. I must say that, of course, while respecting those who are exempt from this, that in many cases, Fidesz officials do not have the skills required in the field of sport or the experience required in the profession when they are placed in the management position of such professional associations. Since 2010, taxpayers' money has been poured into various sports associations to an unprecedented extent, which, in principle, is not to be criticized, but at the same time involves practical maladministration, such as the misuse of tao money, over which, once again, your colleagues or, for example, you, my honourable fellow Member and Erik Bánki, as federal presidents or members of the board, have a direct control over these funds. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I think that when I personally receive requests that tao money I would very much like to listen to you, my honourable fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, if you press a button again and do not choose the method of yelling at me, as you have done in many debates. I don't think that's a good way, Congressman. Feel free to press the button, yeah. So, the thing is, it's very right that the use of tao money goes where it belongs, well and fairly. However, a number of parents have also talked about reinforcements... and, if I understand your speech correctly, this legislative amendment is also about how we can improve supplies. But then I would like to ask you how it can happen among your colleagues or in sports associations directly managed by you, that, for example, Tao money, which would be targeted at training supplies, is given to professional athletes on the basis of the parents' reports, who are already well-funded by the central budget. They receive the tools to help them recover from injuries, where appropriate. [[12.50]] I'm saying this because I've been involved in competition sports myself, and I've been able to perform this activity under the protection umbrella of the Judo Federation for eight years as a select athlete. It doesn't matter at all, and I can see that Mrs. Secretary of State nods about what a child gets from what the Tao subsidies would allow in a supply chain. I think that there is a need to tidy up in sports associations in any way, and that even sports associations have to take responsibility for the fact that we have to act in the case of Tao money that is not properly used in each department, because this is public money, taxpayers' money, and what our future is and the future of Hungarian sport is, in any case, re-education. I would like to give you some examples of whom I think exactly, when I say that the Fidesz party members or even top leaders are directly disposing over the amounts that have been kicking hundreds of billions over the last few years, and indeed, if they were used well, we would have seen significant progress in Hungarian sports. I would not now like to mention, for example, what Hungarian society has experienced and felt in the Olympic Games during the past period, because I myself respect an Olympic quota acquisition in an extraordinary way, and I respect even the proximity to the Olympics in an extraordinary way, but at the same time we have experienced that the results of the past period have not reflected what we have been accustomed to from the Olympic Games. I note that Hungarian athletes have been very much overachieved in previous Olympics. I would also like to give an example that relates to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs. According to the latest news, our fellow Member Lajos Szűcs can take over the seat at the head of the Tennis Association, after a step in which it became apparent that there was a deficit of HUF 4 billion, and the alliance was on the verge of bankruptcy, and then the Member turned to state resources for help in the midst of the economic consequences of the human epidemic. I think that if this has been achieved in Hungarian sports, that associations may not be able to fight well for individual sponsorship funds, they cannot fight well to be able to operate on a market basis, or at least partly on a market basis, it is a drama. It is not possible to say about Hungarian sports that only state aid can be used. Professional sport should no longer be about this, and I do not think it should be about how different sports associations can be channeled directly into the governing parties. I must not fall on the other side of the horse, honourable Members, and once again here, at the end of my speech, I do not have a problem with the fact that billions of states go to support sport, because we know precisely that the development of the body, the soul and the intelligence is important in the course of one person's upbringing, and I think that we can get all three from sport. When we can complete the school with some kind of sports training, it's a combination that will certainly result in an extraordinary personality. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not that you consider funding sport important, but the problem is how. The problem is that we see billions of states disappear, not only in professional sports, but in supply sports. These sports associations have been called unworthy by you, and you have given yourself glorious roles at the head of these sports federations, but that is not enough. I have talked about a number of complaints submitted by parents, and I have talked about the fact that we cannot basically support this proposal, and I think it is time to develop a clear financing system that specifically rewards sports associations that are capable of providing additional support for resources that can be obtained on a market basis, and which do not seek to work with taxpayers' money as they otherwise cannot work out on the basis of individual companies' support or performance, honourable fellow Member.
u2020-06-09-84	For this reason, the amendment of the law has a confusing background for us, just as we find confusing relations in front sports and in terms of the content and personal background of the professional associations. I think that the sports life that is intertwined with a direct political elite, and the fact that we simply cannot see where this ship is going, we can only see that it absorbs state billions in hundreds of billions of dollars, is not acceptable, and I think that this legislative proposal is just as confusing as the sports life of the last few years in Hungary has been. Thank you for listening.
u2020-06-09-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the Group of Jobbik, Mr Adam Steinmetz, will be here to speak. You have the floor, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment of the law before us amends the sport law, our 2004 Act I, and I can tell you that as an athlete, I can support any proposal, and I trust that Jobbik's faction can also support the interests and development of Hungarian athletes and the interests of Hungarian sports life. This legislative amendment actually facilitates the conditions and circumstances of the transfer of the right of departure, the right of entry, as explained in the explanatory memorandum, because the Sports Act currently prohibits the transfer of the right of departure in a competitive system on a general basis. The possibility so far was that the right of departure could only be transferred by the sports association to the company it founded, but now we are opening up this regulation, as if to dilute this general regulation, which has so far been perfectly clear and understandable. Why are we doing this? In the light of practical experience, as the explanatory statement states, and in order to be able to understand this and support it and to apologize here for the delay in the performance of my public tasks, I do not know why the rapporteur mentioned this earlier, but I would like to have an answer as to what these practical experiences are in particular, why this is necessary. We'd like to understand that. How many teams does this affect in practice? Because what we see is that the higher a sports team is now talking about football, I would like to give an example of it, but the same applies to handball and waterball, unfortunately, in recent times, the higher the competition system, the more foreigners who take the place away from Hungarian talent. Hungarian young footballers in the NB I have never competed as low as they are now. So when we are talking about it, and again from the justification, just to understand that, according to the justification, this step is needed to further improve the system of secondary education, I would also say that the Tao billion that have flown into the development of supplies, training, perhaps this should serve these young people's progress and prosperity. But, of course, once again, if we get an explanation, we understand why we now need to transfer license rights to an economic enterprise in which he is either founded or is a member. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I told you.]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I told you.]] Now, back to the whys, I'm going to be specific, because I've been thinking, you can see that this is a personalized bill, because of the entry into force, and I don't think it affects the associations, but who can it affect? For example, it may affect the NEKA in Balatonboglár in handball or perhaps PSN Zrt in football. Pécsi MFC, Mr. Erik Bánki... I'm glad we're just saying that to understand. (Lőrinc Nacsa: I told you. ) Thank you. Because if third-class amateurs can be present, they are professionals, but second-class professionals can only be present, so it actually makes sense to form this rule. [[13.00]] I would like to draw attention to two things. In this law, I see no guarantee that, where appropriate, in a competition system, in one class, several teams can be operated by the same ownership circle. I don't see any guarantees in this, while FIFA standard is that in a particular competition system, in a class, the owner can only have one team. I can't, of course, replace a FIFA provision with a Hungarian law, but I would be happy if we could include it in this bill, so that there is no situation in which a sports business can run two teams in one tournament as part of another sports business; the same ownership circle. This is contrary to a healthy competitive spirit, so I think it is worth considering. Secondly, if I may, my fellow Members, I would like to bring here the provision of the Sports Act, which applies to professional athletes, which is Article 8. Paragraph 6 of this Article, which somehow states that a sports organisation cannot enter the competition system, in a tournament, or subsequently be excluded from it, constitutes a serious breach of contract by the employer, the principal, and can therefore terminate the employment relationship and the relationship of assignment by immediate termination by the athlete. Now, if you don't run in the competition system, in the tournament, because you're handing over your right of departure, your license to another organization, it follows that athletes, professional athletes with contracts, can terminate this employment contract. And then one more practical question: for example, these players, who may have lost their wages because of the fact that, honourable fellow Members, they are and have been in the past, and unfortunately, as much as everyone tries to manage responsibly, there are some cases where a particular association, not only in football, elsewhere, is faced with payment and liquidity problems and is insolvent, and how will these athletes be able to sue against a sports organisation that has no right to start, has no license, has no revenue in Hungarian? Then where are you going to hope for this money?
u2020-06-09-86	In view of these, I would like to thank you very much for making it clear that if the rapporteur or State Secretary could help us to really support this legislative amendment proposal, on a professional basis, with a good heart. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-09-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Ádám Steinmetz...]] Thank you. Mr President, A lot has been said here from our fellow left-wing Members. Member Dezső, who is gullible, objected to the fact that, based on the feedback of the participants, we are making laws for the benefit of the people. Well, that's what we do, Congressman, to listen to people and make laws for the good of the people. I don't understand why you're criticizing this. I don't know how this went down in your day, but that's not how it went down. You're saying that the results on the field should count. We totally agree with that. The bill is about making any progress at all so that teams can survive. They all object to the insinuity that this is about. You, Congressman, were in the room when I said that I very much hope that this bill will save football in Pécs for the first time or for the first time. I thanked my colleagues from Baranya County, Erik Bánki, János Harghitai, Csaba Nagy and Péter Hoppál for lobbying for this law, for lobbying to save football in Pécs, for doing a lot in recent years to save football in Pécs. I also told you this in my speech a few minutes ago. What you could not hear, however, was neither Mrs Bősz Anett nor your speech, the concern for the handball of Order, or the concern for the water polo of Eger, which you somehow forgot to say. Interestingly, they don't think it's important to keep the handball in Ordnance, to keep the Eger water polo, in which I think we can be partners, but you're being hindered by the blinkers you're wearing, because left-wing mayors are running these cities, and they don't want to be partners in this to save these teams. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-88	I agree with Ádám Steinmetz that Hungarian youth should be preferred to have many young Hungarian talent in Hungarian championships, not only in football, in all Hungarian championships; I think he has never heard anything else from my fellow Member Erik Bánki, and he also works in MLSZ to make it so. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nacsa's sentences set me on the button. Let me offer you a few things. If you list those representatives who have done a lot to save football in Pécs, then feel free to add another name, László Toller, who was the mayor of Pécs and did a lot to preserve football in Pécs. Just because we're talking about the mayor on the left, not the right, in case you don't remember, because Laci has unfortunately passed away. The other is that you were talking about working only for the benefit of the people; you had a comment like this. Let me tell you this: yes, we just need to define exactly who the people for whom you are active. Not to mention the specific bill, but we could list the many people you work for, from Lőrinc Mészáros to Tiborcz to many others, and that is why we say that you are not a family-friendly government, but a family-friendly government. On the other hand, I would also say that when measures are taken, it can be said that this is in the interests of the people, for example, if there is prior consultation. Today we are going to negotiate a law on education where every trade union, every interest organisation, is either asking you to do so or to do so one day before you receive a proposal. I think it would be much more transparent than these laws if there were to be a conciliation.
u2020-06-09-90	And one last thought Make it worth a lot of other things. Congressman, the rules have to be followed. It is the responsibility of politicians who think that it is possible to steal money, where appropriate, using sports associations or using sports companies, and it is not the person who eliminates it, but the person who established this practice. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-06-09-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, DK Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, because he is clearly unaware of the figures and the fact that the previous management has inherited a handball for the mayor's office, which is now run by democrats, on which 700 million forints of taxpayers' money should be paid to this city. Do you know, my honourable fellow Member, how much of the local real estate tax is in this town? I guess not. 700 million forints. You are aware that spending the entire property tax revenue on the handball team is only because the leaders of this handball team were not able to do what I referred to in my original speech to seek sponsors on a market basis, in which the current management motivated them to negotiate, which the current city leadership has started, and is already in this process somewhere; I would like to say that this handball team is a handball team that has given fabulous salaries, for example, to coaches who would not be of such value, financed on a market basis in the other handball teams held as a member of the Handball Association. I believe that much has been said here by the opposition about the problem of sport funding; one of them is this.
u2020-06-09-92	And it is also a problem that a city that manages an order of 13 billion forints a year cannot spend nearly one billion forints of taxpayers' money exclusively on a team that, thanks to its former Fidesz leadership, has not tried to find sponsors on a market basis. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-93	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. [[13.10]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There seems to be an ember debate on a legislative amendment proposal that is, after all, short but very serious 30 years behind sports associations and sports companies, and we have seen a lot of things in these 30 years, I think, especially in the first half, because this type of transfer of start-up rights has obviously been banned by the legislative background since the middle of the first decade of the 2000s. Allow me, too, to confirm what Dezső Believing said, we very much believe that the results achieved on the course must determine a result, thereby determining the final result of a championship. We very much believe that it should be determined not at a green table or as a result of economic machinations where, say, in the next championship season, in a football championship class or in any team sports. Interestingly, the timing of the submission of this legislation is interesting. There's been a specific club here that's affected by this. But it is true that the kind of club waltz, which was visible in the nineties and early two thousand years, was removed, otherwise, as a result of a rather strict prohibition laid down by the sports law. I think it is our job not to adopt any legislation that points to the re-launch of this club waltz, and to support any legislative amendments that, of course, strengthens young people who are sported in team sports, that there is a point in performing, there is a point in kicking one more goal at all times, there is a point in deciding on the field, and it does make sense to put a life or half a life on the table to put performance on the table as an athlete. But there's obviously some athletes in this room who've done a lot of work, and I don't want to go into it like that. I see that this rule, although it may be aimed at solving a specific case, but this proposal may give rise to the launch of another club waltz, in a situation where, due to the coronal virus epidemic and its economic effects, certain clubs may find themselves in difficulty and, where appropriate, they will be replaced by lower classes, where appropriate by an economic company, endowed with the right of departure, by the result of a club not on the track where it is decided. [[For signal:]] This question is given and, moreover, no specific reply has been received from any of the authors in two minutes or since. These questions are waiting for answers. I would also like to put on the table that the fact that there is no overdue public debt to a club that is involved in this transformation or the creation of such a company may lead to other debts to a club such as athletes, where appropriate, or, in connection with the conduct of sports events, costs that it has not yet reimbursed. I see Erik Bánki will be eager to answer these questions as well. I hope very much, because it is also evident from this proposal, from the five-day entry into force after its publication, that, by the way, if something is in their particular interest, they can obviously be very quick to legislate, but otherwise, for example, in order to compensate people with disability pensions to put an example on the table, they are not so hasty. They're also committing a misdemeanor violation, as it doesn't seem to be that important to you.
u2020-06-09-94	One word, like a hundred, answer the questions that my fellow opposition Members have asked with good intentions, because I am convinced that they asked these questions because they do not want to open a loophole here for what was a day's process in the '90s and early 2000s, which, I think, is not in the interest of any sport-loving people in Hungary. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-95	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső, MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-06-09-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is worth asking ourselves: how long has this sport law been in force? Since 2004. Since 2004, there has not been a single sports club in need of such assistance as you now wish to offer. I think this proves the inadequacy of this sports club. Everyone else can obey the law, and they can't. The law applies to everyone, doesn't it, Congressman? So you're using the method to change the law to someone who doesn't deserve it. That's one of them. And to not just tell you what I don't like about this, I'll tell you how it would have been fair to me. I've played sports for a good sixty years, let's say, not on the same level as Adam or Anett, on my own amateur level. I learned there that sports are about integrity in the first place, although I played football, so even in this sport. This would have been fair, my fellow Member, Mr Bánki, if you raised this problem as a rapporteur, agreed on it, discussed it, and not for the sake of this one sports club, but for the sake of sport, we will decide on it in some way, and we will make a law. It's obvious to you that this is not the case. This is a lawsuit for a sports union, which, in my opinion, is unfair, but certainly not sporting. [[No one's reporting.]] Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to exercise their right to speak.
u2020-06-09-97	I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, who wishes to respond to what has been said by his representative. Here you go. [[Pointing to gullible Dezső Nacsa Lőrinc: He just said it!]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, During the past five cycles of my parliamentary career, I have participated in a number of demagogic debates in Parliament, but I have rarely heard demagoguery like this between 1998 and 2020. Perhaps it is not a coincidence, my fellow Members of the opposition, that you are where you are, as regards the popularity of the parties and the support of the voters. I mean, you can't get past your own shadow. You're looking for a wolf where there's no wolf, and you're screaming wolf, and you've done that so many times, no one's taking you seriously. Read this bill. There's no underlying motive. It wasn't made up for an association, my honourable colleague Dezső Believing.
u2020-06-09-98	No! Watch the debate, at least. An example was given by the congressman, one. But there are also many other examples. That's how he turned up, say, Érd, but we could have talked about Eger on the same basis, or we could have talked about NEKA on the same basis, the National Handball Academy. We have come to this amendment, ladies and gentlemen, because time has required that we address this issue. Not because, as Congressman László Varga, who I have seen since then, I am not interested in the debate enough to listen to my answer... [[Dr. László Varga indicates his presence from the notary's seat.]]
u2020-06-09-99	But he's here! I'm sorry, you went upstairs. I'm surprised because so far, I've found that at least you love sports, stand up for sports, and as a nutgy, you're supporting sports development as much as possible. I'll give you an example, Congressman. The possibility that the academy of replacements has so much talent that they could, say, in football or even in basketball, go to second class and compete there as a team of their own. In that case, it would be much simpler, and it would also be much more transparent financially if, as a professional team, they were to be separated from the amateur replacement centre, as otherwise happening at NEKA, and would compete alone in a professional championship as an independent company without amateur ties in that sense, and this would also ensure the transparency of funding for sport, Mrs Anett Bősz. That's what I'm talking about. So we are not talking about opening a loophole, and again, as the congressman said, I am sorry, because I can't see without glasses, we are starting a club waltz. I was the greatest leader in eliminating and eliminating these, and I am very proud that, thanks to the Hungarian Football Federation, the other sports associations and the Hungarian government, this has now ceased. This law does not reopen this, my honourable Members, because the regulation of sports associations does not allow and this has also been said to have two different teams in the same class for the same group of owners, which is very right, as this could seriously influence the outcome of the championship. [[13.20]] So much for the suggestion of my fellow Member, Dezső, that I have no sundae in the background. It's not about a team, I don't have a sundae behind the proposal, it's just life that made this proposal, which is, by the way, a 2004 law, so it's no coincidence that it's been modified so many times in this case. There's nothing humiliating, nothing violates the spirit of sport, Congressman. And even the countless demagogic texts you've put forward are all unfounded, and I reject them all as authors. [[Dezső gullible: Well, what is that?]] My fellow Member, Mr Anett Bősz, who deserves to be praised for his track record as an athlete, has the alliances over the tao money. I must disappoint you that the alliances do not have any control over the tao money, my honourable fellow Member. Alliances do nothing other than assess proposals submitted by associations and companies and they decide what kind of development or operation they can use money for. This is the professional responsibility of the Alliance. I personally take responsibility for every decision we have made in the last ten years, Madam honourable Member, because we have not taken any decisions as members of the Presidency where we would not have been sure that it would otherwise serve the development of the sports profession for the replacement centre or for the replacement workshop that received the support. The final users are controlled by the State Secretariat and the Alliance. So I think that the system is clear and transparent. If it were not for this, my honourable fellow Member, Brussels would not have extended the corporate tax relief scheme for another six years, since it is a Community tax, which you obviously know. And the result of the accounting of the first six-year period was that Brussels once again gave us the opportunity to maintain this corporate tax benefit scheme. If this was an opaque, confusing regulation, I am sure the European Commission will not approve it. So I would like to congratulate the secretary of state, since the accounts were carried out by her State Secretary and by the government's co-secretary. Mr Ádám Steinmetz: I thank you very much for your always positive attitude towards sport, which has also been highlighted in your speech. How many teams it can affect, we can't say exactly, because, I'm telling you, life forced it out. But we have just talked about the example of PMFC, we have talked about the example of the National Handball Academy, but we can also talk about the Eger water polo team, which may be in the position that there with the arrival of a new owner... I do not know the structure of the sports club there, but in a case where a local government cannot finance a sports club or a sports business, at least its professional branch, there comes an investor who would like to carry on the professional team, which would, by the way, remove the burden on the municipality, then this law now gives the opportunity to separate the company from it, to set up a new company in which the new owner will enter and finance it. I don't have any nappy fur in it, the results are on the field. You can't run in another settlement, as federal regulations clearly state that you can't transfer this right to another settlement, you will operate in the same settlement, with other ownership circles. You can't leave a public debt behind. The question has been raised, Mr László Varga, about the possible demands of the players. And international alliances forbid it, because it will function as a successor, since it will take the right of departure with it. So if there is only one player who has not been paid, UEFA or FIFA can initiate implementation or exclude it from the tournament against the sports business. So you can't hide from public debts, because then you won't get the chance, and otherwise you have to do the correct accounting with the players, because international alliances can take action against them in this case. I must say that, indeed, what László Toller did as left-wing mayor for football in Pécs, I must say that the sad thing is that this is a unique example in Hungary to this day. I think I've answered every question you've asked. I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Dezső, that we have tried several times over the past few years to discuss matters as important as the re-launch of the economy, and we have not even received an answer from opposition parties. However, in order to present the joint package, I personally, as Chairman of the Economic Commission, wrote a request to all opposition parties, a letter in which I called them to agree and find common points for the re-launch of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, None of the factions gave me a meaningful answer. So much for your attitude. It can be criticised, my fellow Member, when it is possible to do so, we need to work with the ruling parties in order to bring about better regulation. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-100	By the way, the legislation is also in every sense in line with the intentions of the associations operating team sports, so I think that they can support it with a calm heart. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Congressman, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on certain legislative amendments needed to eliminate and prevent school violence will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/10863. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-101	First, I give the floor to Mr.Zoltán Viktor Maruzsa, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you. Just a few days ago, I was standing before you about the general debate of the National Public Education Act. At the time, in the general debate, speakers agreed, regardless of party standing, that there was no room for violence in schools, threats to teachers, verbal or physical abuse. We have also noted that we are not in a target debate on this issue, but in a tool debate. Today, I confirm once again that the government's aim is to eliminate and prevent school violence. To this end, a coherent set of measures with several approaches should be implemented, with the primary aim of ensuring that prevention and, in the case of extreme situations, rapid and effective action is possible. Many elements of the proposed package do not require changes to the rules at the statutory level, but some measures are necessary. The package of amendments before you was made for this purpose. As is well known before the Honourable Parliament, recent violations of public school teachers' threats to violence or physical abuse, who, unfortunately, were in several cases students aged 12-17 years, have been increased. They have been made public, and social media have gained significant ratings for video recordings of violence against teachers openly, mostly made by fellow offenders, causing further moral harm to the abused educator, while committing serious violations. In the videos, students are primarily verbally, but sometimes physically, humiliated by the teacher who is trying to do his job. It's a short, space- and-time-defined event, a renitious, destructive behavior that the majority of society condemns. Such violent cases have a serious negative impact on society as a whole, in particular on the quality of educational work at school, disrupting school communities, and also endangering the rights of peaceful children to learn and to culture. It is a well-known fact that bad school atmosphere, harassment, reduces the effectiveness of education and thus has a negative impact on the future well-being of all concerned. It is obvious that most of these events have a history, and all such extreme infringements have many, many minor violations and misconducts. If a person is able to hit his teacher at the age of 13-14 because he calls him to work, in most cases he has already committed a disciplinary offence before, i.e. the end of a process. Therefore, it is not just the event itself that must be handled, but the process in which the resident student moves from an attitude contrary to the rules of the community to violence against a person with a public mission. It is also important to see that the root of violence is not necessarily only in school, but also in the family environment, inadequate parental care and the lack of valuable education. The tools to address the situation should therefore also respond to the question of parental responsibility and to the strengthening of the supportive role of the family environment. I would like to point out that, in recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to prevent and control intra-school violence. [[13.30]] School psychologists, school social workers, have a major role to play in dealing with the development of aggression against teachers. The government has made great efforts to ensure that these professionals are increasingly present in educational institutions. The law on national public education adopted in 2011 and its implementing regulations created mandatory cases of the use of kindergarten psychologists and school psychologists, since in the previous legislative environment it depended on the decision of the head of the institution to employ such a specialist or not. The number of psychologists employed in the whole system of public education increased between 2010 and 2019 from 998 to 1754. In addition, kindergarten and school social assistance is a new mandatory activity that provides services at cross-sectoral level in education and training institutions through the child welfare system. Social assistance in kindergartens and schools should be provided by family and child welfare centres from 1 September 2018 in educational and educational institutions. Kindergarten and school social assistance activities are primarily preventive, requesting and assisting activities that work and are a very recent development. The government has done a great deal in developing and catching up children in difficult social situations over the past period: it is worth highlighting the school system, which was originally funded by the government from EU funds, but from 2018 it operates under a government decree with stable public funding, providing learning opportunities for children and young people outside school time for whom this option is not self-evident at home. School police have been involved in the education and information of students in public education institutions for the past ten years. In recent years, students and educators in 2963 primary and 245 secondary schools have received assistance from school police and crime prevention consultants on accident prevention and crime prevention, although compared to the school guards now being set up, these professionals have only spent a small part of their time in the schools concerned. The programme "Mintal Hygiene and Initial Education for Teachers" with a long history aims to improve the personal and professional skills of participating teachers to deal with problems, to avoid conflicts that develop to physicality more effectively and to be prepared to deal with the conflict that has already occurred. The training has been taken over and organised by the Education Office since autumn 2017, and 29 training groups have been launched so far, involving 490 teachers. Hundreds of teachers are involved in the development of student conflict management skills each year in the school environment and beyond, as well as in further training in the proper management of harassment and aggressive manifestations in the digital space. A total of 40 groups of Enables were organized in Hungary until December 2019 and 570 teachers were certified. I would also like to point out that this government launched the EFOP-3.1.2 project, entitled The methodological preparation of teachers in order to prevent unqualified school leaving, in which a total of 35,000 teachers out of nearly HUF 10 billion will be trained and prepared to acquire methodological knowledge to effectively manage and prevent unqualified school leaving. Within the framework of the measures taken, it is appropriate to mention that the government adopted Hungary's digital child protection strategy in 2016. The priority of the digital protection strategy is to support conscious, value-creating Internet use, to develop conscious media use and to emphasise the enforcement of rules and measures to protect children and personal rights. The strategy also covers the dissemination of restorative harm management in schools. During this year's renewal of the content regulators of public education, it was specifically incorporated into the framework curriculum requirements for the subject of civic education in grade 8 that students should be aware of the tasks of public education professionals, educators, doctors, ambulances, their high social utility and the importance of their legal protection. I have just listed nine measures here without the need for completeness. Anyone who then claims that the government has done nothing in the last ten years, but now wants to punish young people with batons and handcuffs, has missed the events of the last ten years, or is only informed about under-informed social media, and therefore has no idea what is going on. Obviously, this government has been committed and active in steps to prevent school violence. In addition to the continuation of these preventive instruments and the extension of preventive interventions, the package of measures contained in the current bill includes the necessary tools for the rapid, decisive management and sanctioning of aggression. Before the proposals were drawn up, we asked for the opinions of a number of professional actors, including the National Crime Prevention Council, the Commissioner for Education Rights, the SZGYF, and we examined international experience. The package of proposals to be presented is also based on the experience of these discussions and analyses. It has already been seen in the last week's debate that one of the most important elements of the package of proposals that we have just tabled is the establishment of a school-guard system, which has certainly also been most affected by opposition speeches. The school guard is proposed to be set up as a separate law enforcement body under the control of the police. Its members will be able to serve at EMMI and the 500 institutions designated by the ITM, which are in a more critical position in public education and vocational training, as of September 1, 2020 where the maintenance of the institution's order requires this most, based on the opinion of the head of institutions and the maintenance staff. I would like to point out that the system of schoolkeepers is currently being introduced exclusively in public institutions, only in institutions where the heads of institutions ask for it themselves, so the government does not force any schoolkeeper to do so. However, we are convinced that the presence of school guards in the institutions will increase the sense of security of teachers, educators, and students, and will be a deterrent for students who threaten or abuse their educators or fellow students. The members of the school guard shall be able to interrupt abusive practices in educational and educational institutions and prevent the deterioration of the situation by means of targeted measures chosen to ensure proportionality and necessity and, if necessary, by means of a coercive instrument. I would like to note that the school warden does not have a firearm, which is why the new organization needs to be set up, because the school guard's equipment and activity are different from that of the police officer. It's different because we don't think anyone should be in school with a gun. The school warden shall be prohibited from using any other coercive instrument other than physical coercion, chemical device, gas spray, police staff and handcuffs. These are the coercive instruments which, subject to the proportionality, necessity and expediency requirements imposed on the use of coercive instruments, are considered to be the smallest. It is also important that the school warden should not use a coercive instrument other than physical coercion and handcuffs, except in the case of legitimate protection, against children. It is important that the schoolmaster's right to act and apply coercive instruments only covers the area of the educational and educational institution during teaching periods. The proposal is therefore narrower for school guards than for police officers, but, let's say, it gives them a substantive right to take action compared to a doorman. The school settles the details of the cooperation with the police in a separate cooperation agreement, including the placement of the institution for the school warden and how the school warden's instructions will work. Basically, a technical solution that is closely linked to the introduction of the school-guarding system can be the development of a basically mobile application-based signalling system that allows the teacher to ask for help if he/she feels that he/she is unable to handle the situation in the classroom alone. On the basis of the bill that has just been submitted, schoolmasters receive complex training, both in the field of law enforcement and in teaching, psychological and knowledge of the internal functioning of schools, before they start their service. They will, of course, also have to meet physical endurance requirements. The details of training and examinations will be regulated by specific ministerial regulations as proposed. It is important that school guards regularly receive additional refresher training during their duties on all subjects relevant to their activities. [[13.40]] Experience has shown that the majority of school violence offenders are of age 12-17. Up to now, members of this group under 14 years of age have been exempt from criminal prosecution. The previous amendment to the Criminal Code has already allowed the criminal liability of the age group between 12 and 14 to arise, depending on the ability to understand certain acts which are particularly dangerous to society. On the basis of this proposal, not only in the case of violence against a person with a public service mission under the National Public Education Act, as well as against his supporter, but also in the case of violence against officials and public officials and their supporters in general, the age limit of criminality is reduced. These acts are, in our view, capable of shocking the community, of undermining the confidence of citizens in the system of public education and vocational training, in addition to harming the authority and individuality of teachers, they also undermine the perception of educational calling. However, it is important to point out that, as a guarantee element, the legislation requires the perpetrator to have the discretion to recognise the consequences of the crime at the time of the offence as a condition for the liability of the 12-14-year-old population. The root of the violence against teachers is primarily in the narrower family environment of the pupils concerned. Family is the primary medium for learning and learning socially accepted attitudes. Therefore, the responsibility of parents and guardians is also inevitable in supporting students' compliance. Because of the above, this bill provides for the possibility for the court to order the parents or guardians of the student concerned to pay the criminal costs of the criminal proceedings in the event of a criminal offence committed by a juvenile defendant against a person performing a public service mission. So there should be consequences for them. Financial sanctions include the proposal to suspend schooling aid for 12 months. In Hungary, the state provides monthly educational care or schooling support for the costs of raising and schooling the child. If the child who is entitled to the school allowance has been convicted of a criminal offence, but the court has not sentenced him to imprisonment as punishment, since in this case, the care provided for in respect of him is granted to the penitentiary, the family allowance will be suspended for a period of one year, even in accordance with the provisions currently in force. The primary aim of the suspension of the allowance is to make parental responsibility clear; a violent child should not be dealt with with with by a shrug, yes, it is the parent's responsibility to raise his child and send him to school. Last week, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai also mentioned the importance of reviewing school policy. In this connection, I would like to point out that 20-2020 on the functioning of educational institutions and on the use of the names of public education institutions. Amendment to EMMI Regulation No 1 is also under way to review rules on the use of mobile phones and other ICT devices in school policies by public education institutions and their maintainers and to lay down the most important principles and rules on school violence in the policy. This measure requires the amendment of a ministerial regulation, which is not part of this amendment proposal, but is closely linked to it due to its content. We agree with the congresswoman that this is also necessary, and this is ongoing. In addition to the measures presented so far, as I have repeatedly referred to before, we plan to use and extend a number of preventive instruments to prevent violence and aggression against teachers in schools. Next, I would like to present some of these measures to you. School violence is a phenomenon that goes beyond school. This also means that it is not possible to fight it fully with only school tools, within the framework of school. It is necessary to promote coordinated cooperation between municipal and ethnic authorities, churches, civil society organisations, parents, cultural, social and health institutions with the support of programmes and events. In order to represent the interests of local communities at school, an institutional council consisting of parents, pupils, educational bodies, local government, church legal persons, the same number of representatives of local chambers of economy and their maintenance delegates may be established. The members of the institutional council are all participants in the life of the local community; this helps to ensure the effective functioning of the council, as it can find the necessary tools more easily and specifically with local knowledge, local customs and personal contacts with the population. We think it would be a good idea if this existing forum also gave room for discussions on measures to combat school violence. Prepared teachers have a key role to play in preventing school violence. We believe it is important that teachers become even more prepared to cooperate with study groups from different environments to deal with potential conflicts. To this end, we consider it appropriate to strengthen the development of conflict management skills, communication and mental health training in pedagogical training. In the past, I have already mentioned the Enable programme for the development of student conflict management skills, as a pedagogical further education, as well as the programme of.Mintalhygienics and initial training for teachers. In the future, we would like to extend these programmes and implement them in a targeted manner, involving teachers from the most affected institutions. In addition to the extension of the programmes, we will examine the involvement of parents of aggressive conflict-seeking students in conflict and anger management trainings. Finally, I would like to mention another planned measure to you. In order to support educators and institutions, we consider it necessary to develop a methodological-professional service that can help them manage difficult pedagogical and behavioural situations appropriately. This support could be provided by a professional group of psychologists with appropriate skills and experience, mental health professionals, who could help with online channels, telephones or personal consultation, even providing direct and intensive support at a given school in a critical situation. We also consider it important for teachers who suffer violence to benefit from individual supervisions. This group may also be able to collect good practices on an online platform for effective prevention and treatment of school violence. To sum up, the government believes that the abuse of teachers should be stopped, and that all possible preventive and sanctioning measures should be taken against it. The amendment to the law before us seeks to guarantee that teachers can do their work in a safe environment and in calm conditions. The accompanying measures, described above, will help to create a calm, safe and peaceful atmosphere within the school in the long term by means of prevention tools. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-102	The opposition representatives sitting here also called on the government on numerous occasions for decisive action against teacher abuse and school violence. Six or eight written questions have been addressed before the agenda in the last year and a half. Without the need for completeness, I can mention the requests and initiatives of Dóra Dúró, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, Mr Ander Balázs. In the case of individual educational abuse cases, you have asked for effective action by the government. We are here now, in addition to the programmes already presented, we would take further measures. I therefore ask you not to turn your back on your former demands simply because you do not want to side with the government's proposal; in order to strengthen the effectiveness of public education, I ask that the entire Hungarian society, in particular children and educators, support our proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, If you could subtitle a bill as you can't, because it's not a lyrical genre, but if you could, I'd give this bill the subtitle that it's the soul of everything. This monotonous wisdom from the predecessors has not lost its actuality, and I believe that it offers us a stable point of reference on this subject as well. As the Secretary of State has said, we have already carried out the preliminary debate on this bill last week, since several people have already asked about the amendment of the Public Education Act, or have spoken about this law, and I believe that this preliminary debate was useful and good because it clarified the basic position. To keep me on a school metaphor: every gymnastics class started for us at the time by recording the basic position, and all the movement started from the ground up. I think that we are all here on the right ground, because, as Mr State Secretary said, last week it was outlined that we agreed on the goals, and so hopefully in this debate we will not be a goal, but rather an instrumental debate. [[13.50]] We could also conclude that every speaker in this is motivated by good intentions, helpful intentions, and assumes this of the other. There is a point of agreement between us, and that is very good, because this point of understanding is not only that of political parties, but also that of a very broad part of society, that we reject school violence. There is agreement that we all recognise the right of teachers and students to respect human dignity. We acknowledge the right of all students and teachers to safety in school, and we acknowledge that every child has the right to a calm learning and every teacher has the right to a calm teaching. I would add that every family has the right to keep their children safe at school, and every family has the right to expect their child's progress, which is obviously dependent on his abilities. It follows from this that it is the duty of the State to guarantee all of these rights, and it is also the duty of the State that, if these rights are violated, they should be protected, if necessary, in the strongest possible way. At the same time, the state has an obligation to protect the school system. I mention this because where violence appears, it enters the school, after a while it cannot be taught or studied. And where there is neither teaching nor learning, there is actually no school to talk about, or even if we try to cover it up, deny it, society reacts very quickly to such a disorder. He reacts very quickly, exits, backs out, and escapes from such a school every family who can do so. And in the end, the process ends with the risk of maintaining, maintaining and operating the school. Teachers also leave such places, and then calling a teacher to their place is not an easy thing, but it is no wonder that no teacher wants to go to such a place. More examples could be set for this process. Allow me to briefly quote the example of Gyöngyöspata, because this is a rather graphic example. Sometime in the school that lived the right row, there were more than 200 students, students, and today this number is less than 80. And not because the number of children in Gyöngyöspata has fallen so drastically, but because most of the children in Györöspata have left, they have been forced to leave this school, and behind this number is not the free choice of schools, but clearly the daily violence, the impossible teaching and learning. The fact is that Gyöngyöspatan has about 80 children in school today, and more than 80 children are forced to go to school every morning. These children and these families are the real losers of school violence, these families and these children pay very unfairly the bill of school violence; and the settlement that has lost most of its children, who will soon have to give up, because children who have not been attending school in their first year will not really be connected to this settlement, because their experiences, friends, decisive events for their lives are happening at school, and this will no longer be in the locality. And the end is that school becomes barely sustainable, because where there are no more than 40 children in the upper school next year, there are operational, operational and maintenance problems again. And, of course, this example shows that school violence casts further social tensions, and at the end of this process, everyone suffers badly. This process has no winners, only losers. We also agreed last week that what social media or other platforms show from school violence is the tip of the iceberg, because no one really talks about it, especially the victims. To any teacher, it is not glory, nor pride for any student, that aggressors triumph against him. And schools aren't proud when they get so famous. There are some student victims who, even in front of their family, hide for a long time what they had to go through. As Mr. Secretary said, violence occurs at school, but the root of violence is not in school, but outside the surrounding world. But to clarify the matter, we can make it clear, as Mr Secretary of State has said, that the family has a crucial role to play, because the aggressor from the family, the perpetrator, brings the pattern of behavior, the model that he learned as a problem solver from the family and from his immediate environment. And if we see this, it also means that school and educators have limited opportunities to deal with school violence, but above all to eliminate it. But you can't allow violence into school, that's a rule. And where he's already in, he's got to get out. Because the world may be moving in the direction that what was once self-evident, even for my generation, that, let alone harming the teacher, we are not disrespectful to the teacher, this may be beyond the world, but we think that the world has values, there are rules that we must stick to. And let the world change, but we are not only sufferers of this world, but also active actors. This responsibility must be assumed by all of us, by local societies, by Parliament, by politics and by the government. The state has an obligation to act, which is why this bill was drafted. The government also sends this message that it is aware of the gravity of the issue, takes the steps that need to be taken, takes the debate that needs to be held, and also undertakes to provide the necessary resources to address the issue. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The primary objective of the proposal before us is to prevent school violence. Prevention is the primary objective, retention, if necessary, of deterring and, at the same time, ensuring the possibility, if necessary, of quick, strong and effective intervention of the aggressor, and the protection of the victims of violence in such cases precedes all other rights. All metaphors are lame, but perhaps I could bring here the comparison of the KRESZ, just as a reference to the fact that the recommendation, prohibition, or even deterrence is not from the devil, because our lives have spaces where we use these signals very well and everyday. For example, the rules of road transport, which are based on a common understanding and the understanding that the rules must be respected. These rules may inform you, they may show you the way, road signs, they may say, "Well, here's a priority," but there's also a part where you say stop, you have to stop here and you can't go through red. In fact, there is much to argue about following these rules, because we know that we are protecting ourselves and others in compliance with the rules. [[14.00]] [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] And there are also protected routes on the roads of capital life, and the most protected route is the path of children. All areas, families, schools, other educational-educational institutions that are about children, and all the rights that are about children are of paramount importance. If a person does not comply with or knowingly violate the rules on these routes by reason of reason, the prohibition, detention, deterrence or withdrawal must take effect. Because it may be this prohibition that will make the recognition, the recognition that will give birth to insight, and the intention that is no longer an external urge, but an inner movement, and that can actually guide life. We know that not everyone always likes to go to school, but the thing is, school can't always be a game, fun, laugh, because there are parts in it that are about work, and everyone has to accept that. I would like to mention three of the main elements of the proposal in the remaining time. The Secretary of State spoke in detail about the institution of the school guard. I would also like to underline here: the basic objective of the school guard, its task, with its mere presence, is to increase security and the safety of school workers and students. The perpetrator has to take account of the presence of the school guard, and the potential victim knows that he is not left alone in the trouble, and that the school guardian, as a person performing a public service, is capable, competent and qualified to take the necessary, proportionate and appropriate measures; of course, if necessary, there is no other way, there must be recourse to coercive means; otherwise, the coercive means must be messages, signals, but these signals, if necessary, must become an active tool. As regards the reduction of the age of criminality, it is important to draw attention to the fact that many of the school penalties are no longer penalties, because most of them are written warnings that do not really have an impact on the family to which they arrive, are not a deterrent, and the fact is that in the case of more serious disciplinary offences, the procedures, today's school procedures, are too lengthy and complicated. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Finally, I would like to talk about the responsibility of the family for the remaining half-minute, which is an unavoidable issue, even if this may be the most controversial, because raising the responsibility of the family leads to the root of the problem, as I have already mentioned: behavioral patterns, problem-solving models come from the family and the immediate environment. In addition, we see in some cases that families play an active role in aggression, because there is a school violence followed by the emergence of the family. It'll turn into a lot of fights. Thank you very much, Mr President, I see that my time is running out, and I have not yet said so, but I will also have the opportunity to explain it in the debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-104	Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-105	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Welcome. We will continue our work by listening to keynote speeches. Congressman Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I was invited, too. The fact is that I haven't changed my mind since last Thursday's debate, and I also said that we can support this bill, not fully, but we can support it. I have also said my criticisms, and I will do so now, because I consider this issue to be an important problem that deserves to be discussed in a meaningful, normal and constructive way at as many times as possible and at every forum, through every available channel. Many times it has been said that violence is the root of family. Let's look at the cases that, let's say, Eduline-hu also published as a headline about how much the family had to do with these horrific acts. He beat up his teacher, but he can go to school with the 13-year-old student from Szeged,. He didn't listen, so he beat up his teacher, according to a elementary schoolteacher, not to him, but to their child, the real teacher attitude is revealed here, that this man sees this profession as his profession, and not his own apology from the perpetrators, but the child, who is the greatest victim in all of this, is the victim of the socio-cultural environment, the aggression that doesn't lead anywhere, which, unfortunately, can serve as a model for him. But let's keep looking. The teacher was torn to pieces by a student who broke his leg in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, in Kemecsék sometime last spring this story happened. But we can think of events uploaded to the social network that occurred, say, in Nagykatán or Mezőtúr, or perhaps one of the most shocking events that occurred in Pesterzsébet, where students who had forgotten themselves, were disrobed from themselves, like some wild baboon horde of their instructors. All of them are intolerable and unacceptable, so this problem, this problem, really needs to be done. However, it should also be said that this society has not come to such a state from one moment to the next. For a very long time, many people have had the responsibility to say that the state of anomaly, the attitude which has lost confidence, and which has not been taken into account, has developed in Hungary, which can lead to these acts. So, what's the problem? Yes, it has to be said: in many cases, indeed, in the family, and this is not said by one force or the other, but very many of the educational sociologists who deal with it are in this position. After all, if you look at the capital theories that, say, address the key to life leading to success, then, according to such reproductive theory, it is certainly true that in perpetuating social inequalities, the values that are engraved in the child's family education, what becomes his Habittus, is a huge reason. I would like to mention the name of Bronfenbrenner, perhaps, that if we travel to such an area, who, as a representative of the socio-economic school, says that the main reason for the development of deviant attitudes is the environment, and that what becomes an incorrupted, internalised cultural capital for a child, according to what patterns he will live and adapt to certain situations, is largely up to the family, and the state can also be responsible for how the so-called objective cultural capital, if any, appears. There are families where such a thing does not happen on the child's head! the lexicons drop off the bookshelf and the demizson elsewhere; it doesn't matter what medium that child grows up in. And if I were to refer to an educational sociological authority, I directly memorized some sentences from Ibolya Gönczi's study Children's Protection and School about what would be good, what would make this society and the individual happy. He writes: If a child's value does not appear in the life of a family as a social support option, if it is not considered a source of livelihood, it is seen as an embodiment of love, harmony, and vitality. Well, that would be the ideal situation for us to go to together, and here in the debates, and we should always work at all times to have such a society around us, and these children, these young people, grow up in a country like this. There really could be a reference to Tamás Kozma, Zoltán Bathory and the theories of various educational sociologists until the evening, all of which confirm that the role of the family is enormous. However, I would like to translate all this into a very clear, understandable sentence, a Borsodi gypsy man, who I respect there, Attila Lakatos, said that the child's responsibility is not an animal, and that applies to everyone, so we should refrain from origin, so it is not a matter of colour, there should be no misunderstanding, I say to all my fellow Members, the Secretary of State, that this should be a sacredity for all: child responsibility, not an animal, so the parent should also be related to it and should raise it accordingly. So much for the family's responsibilities, which could really go on for a long time. [[14.10]] I've referred to a Nobel Prize winner named James Heckman here many times. We all know that the best investment is education, capital invested in learning, public spending, budget money, and extremely good rates of return. Now, the great invention of this man Heckman was that he realized that this rate of return was not even at all, and that it was decreasing as time progressed, so they intervened as soon as possible. And now it's a cardinal part of this intervention, let's say, the vocational schools where young people go when they're 15, if any, 16 years old. Then we would have our criticism of the state that this is a late intervention, because if they pay attention to it at that time, whether it is financial or whatever, then it may not pay back, or not as the legislator intended. His second point was that in the case of disadvantaged social groups, or where the family background index is low, this return falls steeply over time. Why am I saying this? I told you last week that we have some of the budget amendments that might be trying to remedy exactly this. This would be the increased state support of the "Secure start" children's homes, or if we look at a later date in the child's life, the more effective support of the schooling program. I know, Mr State Secretary, you said that this funding was from EU funds earlier, but now it has been taken over by the state. But I told you last week, I'll tell you now, and maybe next week, and whenever possible, given the gravity of the problem, we still find this support to be low. Obviously, I would add that these resources, the resources provided by the state, should be used normally, so there should be a quality requirement, although it is usually typical that anyone who goes to teach in such a place really considers this beautiful profession to be his profession, and is indeed a capital educator, a kind of lantern to children. I believe that, based on what has been said so far, there may be no doubt for you that, yes, we are trying to believe, we believe in integration, there are also international examples of this. The other day, I may have referred to the Singapore model when the Adult Education Bill was being negotiated, where the catch-up and integration of the now almost 14 percent Malaysian minority was actually resolved in a very short period of time. Amazing! A miracle that happened there. The other one does not have to go that far, if we look at, say, the poorest region in Europe, Northwest Bulgaria, then a town, Lom, in which about 25 thousand people live, and the proportion of the Roma population is large, it can be an example that these problems can be dealt with almost on a systemic level, i.e. not only insularly, through a good educator, school principal or institutional community, but can be dealt with. So in this city, in this city of Bulgaria, somehow we managed to solve it. I said that this should be the case, or we say that this Hungarian model should be the same. If we look at the domestic processes, not now, in recent weeks, in months or in a year or two, but in long or long decades, we could also bring up some research results here, which would have meant that we should have intervened earlier, and not with such drastic or drastic means. So when we really have reached the point where, where appropriate, there is an institution at the edge of the gap, and if they want to eliminate violence, school violence and the threat of teachers the day after tomorrow, then they really have to use such tools, because there is nothing else in their possession now. I'm just saying that I should have dealt with these things earlier, at the root. Let's see what you're not paying attention to. I don't want to make this an ethnic issue, but it's about vocational schools. We also know from the research of Gábor Havas or Ilona Liskó that these institutions are becoming a common sociological concept in educational sociology, becoming increasingly segmented. Ilona Liskó's research revealed that if the proportion of minority students reaches 20 percent, 90 percent of the directors say that there are special problems in that institution. If we look at how abandoned they are, let's say, they've been baptized for a few years in the name magic, and now they're actually getting their old names back, we see that the proportion of disadvantaged students is 17 percent, and I'm trying to quote the latest statistics: it's ten times higher than high school. If we look at how many of the students of all the SNIs come here from 17 400 SNI students to schools of this kind, to which this bill is now particularly focused, we can see that 45 percent of SNI students continue their education career here after primary school. Twelve percent is their share of these schools. There are surprisingly high proportions, and there are obviously overlaps, so there are overlaps between 17 and 12 percent. But this in itself represents a huge proportion, with which, in recent years, we can safely say that in decades, this would be the fair one, not very much concerned with domestic education. The result was astounding exodus data, thousands of these young people are going to go to the market, with whom society will have to start something at a later date. We say that prisons and other such devices are obviously a bad solution, especially if we consider that the daily support of a prisoner cost taxpayers at least nine thousand forints per day, and that is why it would be justified to intervene in a more constructive way earlier. Well, then, these schools are being segmented, and if we look at how, let's say, almost two thirds of Gypsy youths in these schools, so they continue their studies after primary school, then we have to see that their parents' school education is 80 percent of their primary school education based on a 2010 Hard Assessment. In such a case, when there is such a gap between the school world and the family environment, so-called bicultural socialization is very much giving up the lesson for all teachers, and the situation is that they will reach the edge of the gap when they will have to introduce a school guard in schools instead of trying to deal with it sooner. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But here I would like to go to the end again, and I would also like to add that it is indeed a very interesting subject, so once again, in the end, I would like to stress that the responsibility of the family and the individual is inevitable. Over and over again, we, as a conservative man in this faction, need to say that we can't pin everything on the state, and we can't make citizens underage. There's a responsibility: we don't go to school to take revenge and follow some kind of aggressive pattern.
u2020-06-09-106	That's where we hammer the teachers. It's as simple as that. Thank you, I'll continue.
u2020-06-09-107	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP is Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Here. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As my fellow Member, Mr Horváth, and my fellow Member, Jobbik, indicated, this is an important issue, the Parliament came to an important point, which, as Balázs Ander said, we started to discuss in part last week, because this topic was also mentioned in part in the context of the amendment of the Public Education Act, in addition to the amendments of nationality. In recent times, as many people have already quoted in particular, we have seen examples in Hungary of violations involving long-term violence against teachers or physical abuse. This phenomenon is not new, it has been present in the school system for a long time, but it only affects a small part of schools. All cases in today's digitally equipped world are recorded and published on the World Wide Web in teacher abuse and school disorder. As a result, society is now widely aware of deviant behavior in some schools, which also causes legitimate social outrage. These recordings, including those referred to by the State Secretary, are, on the one hand, an infringement and violate the rights of teachers and abusers, and make the recordings of them much more widely available, which are usually made by the perpetrators' peers, and they also gain significant audiences in social media and video-sharing platforms. In the videos, students primarily verbally, but sometimes physically, abuse and humiliate teachers who try to teach them about their work. [[14.20]] Teachers should be surrounded by recognition and appreciation for their sacrificial work for the education and upbringing of future generations. For us it is unacceptable and outrageous to abuse and intimidate teachers. Here I would like to open the parentheses that, if we are talking about this topic, I would like to thank teachers for their position in the last difficult period, the transition from one day to the digital curriculum, their creativity, their determination, their sense of purpose, with which our children were taught and raised in front of laptops in this difficult time, in front of computers, but also in the difficult situation. Thank them. For us, it is unacceptable for anyone to act aggressively against teachers. We cannot allow deviance to win the way to any Hungarian school. Against these attacks, educators are often powerless, there are no adequate and effective means under the laws in force. This phenomenon should not only be sanctioned or treated symptomaticly, but also the wider process in which the renitant student moves from an attitude contrary to the rules of the community to violence against a person with a public mission, as a unit, the process should be viewed and treated as a whole. The bill we are discussing now contains a complex, comprehensive system-wide action solution whose primary objectives are prevention, the protection of educators and students, as well as deterrents in extreme cases of violence by means of strict sanctions. On the one hand, the bill contains a number of immediately applicable, decisive actions to stop or sanction events that have progressed to extreme violence. Such measures include setting up a school-guard network aimed at increasing the level of security of teachers, educators and school workers, and strengthening the deterrent force in students to act verbally or physically against teachers. The members of the school guard will be able to interrupt infringements in public education institutions by taking measures that comply with the requirements of proportionality and necessity and, if necessary, by the use of coercive means, and to prevent the development of situations. We often see that one of the assaults or one of the assaults, verbal threats, leads to the next event and thus exponentially increases the tension in schools, so we need to eliminate the root cause of the situation from the very beginning in order to avoid degeneration. It is important to note that school guards may take action only in accordance with the requirements of necessity and proportionality, the coercive instruments used by the police may be used either not at all or only in a limited manner. The bill guarantees that school guards can only use the mildest methods and exclude possible abuses. Here, Mr Secretary of State has already talked about training for school guards. I consider this to be an extremely important element of the programme, and it could be said that the success of the programme depends on it to receive appropriate training, physical, mental and psychological training, as well as psychological preparation, which helps them to do their job and which makes them fit for this often difficult task, although we hope that they can perform mostly event-free tasks. The aim of the presence of school guards is to create a sense of comfort and security in the majority adopting the standards of law, community and society, and a deterrent effect in those displaying deviant behaviour. Another element is that the age of criminality is reduced to 12 years, but, of course, it remains a condition that the perpetrator has the insight necessary to identify the consequences of the crime at the time of the crime. The bill also places great emphasis on prevention, of which it also supports local cooperation beyond school frameworks in order to curb school violence. It is necessary to involve municipal and ethnic authorities, churches, civil society organisations, parents, cultural, social and health institutions in order to prevent this phenomenon. Here I would like to highlight what my fellow Member, Mr Ander, has said. I've been in a safe start house several times, which we very much support, and we hold on to a very useful programme, and of course I agree with him that these programmes, which have already led to results and have proved to be good, should be maintained and continued. It is also necessary that the capacity for conflict management be given a much greater role in the education of the future educator, as well as the programme for teachers of mental health and basic training, where teachers are trained in mental health, which can bring about rapid and effective changes in the relevant institutions, better avoid conflicts to the physical level and prepare teachers to deal with the conflict situation that has already arisen. I don't want to go without a word on the responsibility of the families. I agree with Mr State Secretary, my fellow Members, that there is a great responsibility for the family, as a community, as a socialisation site for the activities that are being developed, for the education of a child, a young person, from what environment he comes to schools from. I therefore think that we need to place a great deal of emphasis not only on thinking, not only on example, not only on prevention, but also on the possibility that in these families, where such conflicts may arise, or on signs encouraging such aggressiveness, prevention, monitoring, mentoring, providing continuous support, should have a role. After all, we see that, in agreement with Mr Ander Balázs, the school cannot assume all the responsibilities, the responsibility of the parents must take precedence. The school can't take away the parenting roles. The school can provide knowledge, it can provide values, it can provide an educational framework that benefits the young child, but we can never take parents, foster parents, who at home have a huge share in raising an honest citizen with either their love or their values. Therefore, I think that parents should not be left out of this topic. I would also encourage the Secretary of State to prepare brochures, campaigns and educational material on this subject in the near future, so that they can learn not only about this programme to be introduced, but also about their responsibilities, their role and opportunities in this and to whom they can turn if they need a solution or need help. We would definitely push for that. [[László Horváth applauds.]]
u2020-06-09-108	The bill is, as you just said, eligible, supported by the KDNP fraction, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go. Mr President, Dear House, I'm sure we can all agree, based on the debates we've had so far, that violence has no place in school, whether it's the teacher or the student or any other school person. We also agree that the situation in this area is not good, and we also agree, if I understand correctly, that it is not a new phenomenon, but a longer period of Hungarian education, I would also say that there are basically all trends and problems in education in an advanced country, which have social causes, there are family reasons, indeed, I would add, there are reasons within the education system. I do not think that the individual educator has any responsibility in any way; I think that the organisation of the education system has a serious responsibility in this regard, and that teachers are often, in a pedagogical professional sense, not used to deal with such situations, or to be even more precise in their prevention. So far, we agree. What is it that we disagree on? We do not agree that this bill takes it for granted, accepts, accepts as a starting position that there are schools where there are no more pedagogies, where there is no more professional work, where we do not raise the child, where we do not support, where we do not help, where we do not prevent violence, but, as a deterrent, we send something halfway to the police. What we are talking about here is that there is such a strange legal arrangement, if we would like to deal with the details of this, it would be worth it, but I will not go into the details of this, and then only at some point, why this type of solution is problematic from a different side, from a law enforcement point of view. Honestly, I'm more interested in pedagogy, the educational aspect. [[14.30]] This is the solution you choose here, the solution to capitulation. This solution is about the education system raising its hand and saying that we can't handle children, we don't have any tools in education, we don't have any tools in pedagogy, but we can only rely on police means to deter students from attacking teachers. It's tragic, it's a disaster, if that's the case, and it's a disaster if you think about it that way. I think we should talk about prevention here. If you like it, I am grateful in one respect for this bill, or for these two parties' bill, because at least we are talking seriously about the problem of school violence here, more and more than ever in recent years, and that's good, but the tool you choose is wrong, that's wrong. It's not an acceptable starting point to discipline children with police force. It's not an acceptable starting point for a teacher to be able to do his job unless he's got a cop with a baton and handcuffs, and he's forcing a student to behave normally. That is not acceptable, fellow Members. There is a broader context for this, and there is also a need for intervention: this is indeed the area of families. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that the family policy and the social policy that has been punishing poor families for ten years now, which does not support them to succeed in some way, but rather by reducing their supply, the whole system of public work is not a problem with public work itself, with the system that you have done with public work, and at all with the whole approach in which, as János Lázár said in such a plastic way, everyone is worth as much as you have. With this approach, they have only made the situation of families worse, at least the situation of families living in a difficult line, and in many respects this tension appears in the education system. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] But there is a system of tools for this, so there is a broader context, the support and assistance that the state provides for families, the importance of children in poor families. Because I understand, fellow Members, and I say this to Mr Ander Balázs, just as I say to Congressman Horváth, that, of course, a lot of children do not bring samples from the family, they do not bring knowledge, they do not receive the support they need, but then the solution is not to put a policeman next to you, who will handcuff you if you do not behave the way I think you do, but the solution is to give that child more support because the child cannot help what family he comes from. Then you have to support the child. This is why the programme is a good start; that is why the schools are good; that is why the many types of civil and state initiatives that have been launched in recent years, and some of which continue under the current government, sometimes with smaller and more enthusiasm, but which do not come together as a unified, strong system. Coming a little closer to this thing, we would have a series of tools within the school itself to deal with, to prevent this situation. There are high-quality professional programs for conflict resolution, meaningful integration, how to involve these children in building relationships with families. These, of course, are resource-intensive. Much of this work cannot be done by teachers, because they simply do not have time and have no energy. But that's when we say and not only say it, it's not just the opposition, but when they look at it, all the teachers' organizations say that they need teachers, social workers, mental health professionals in schools; people who help the school. I need more of these. Not a policeman, but a helper is needed to prevent school violence. What will this now established school guard look like? A very strange construction, therefore, because the school guard is part of the school on the one hand and not part of the school on the other. In no way is the person from the school guard connected to the school's professional program or professional ideas. The principal's not boss, he doesn't take part in the pedagogical work; the school has to give him a blank check, which means he can do whatever he wants, and the school supports him. That is what this cooperation agreement is all about. So there will be this school policeman, and in any way he will not fit into the school order in any other way, but he himself will be an alien element at school. And we expect him to be able to judge, for example, in a pedagogical situation, when to intervene and when not. This is what we expect from someone who is certainly talking about, although this legislation does not contain a police record. I'm sure he's a good professional in this area, but he's not an educator. We expect him to know when to intervene and when to use violence in a ministerial decree; when to beat children 12 years old with a baton; when to handcuff them and when to spray them with pepper spray. The Minister of the Interior will tell you that as a pedagogical expert. And the school guard, as a police officer, will know how to use this. I think you understand that this is a complete misunderstanding and a complete mistake, or if you don't understand, everyone who thinks clearly will understand that perfectly. What other rules are there? It also includes, in essence, creating a type of system that brings uniforms into school and gives them a very wide range of discipline and discipline, essentially, instead of educating them, the police approach became the master in these schools. We don't know what schools will be, because there's no criteria for that. Where you decide, if I remember correctly, the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Education, I don't know, of the two... that's not, sorry, so either the Minister of the EMMI or the Minister of the Interior, that's suddenly not in my head, and one of the smart colleagues at the Ministry will decide that this is where you send a policeman. Then the cop goes in, and from there, he's the boss, not the educators. Let's just say this because I can say this intricately, but that's what it looks like. This is a complete mistake! What else does this proposal contain? In this, I know that we have had a lot of debates before, but the withdrawal of school support as a criminal penalty is certainly not in line with this law. If they wanted to do this, it would be possible to put it in the Btk. as a special sanction, but secondly, legally impossible. Because, by the way, as Congressman Nacsa wisely said, when is criminal sanctions possible? Then, if he is a 12-year-old child, he is able to see the consequences of his actions. But if he's making the decision, then he's got his full sense of mind, because otherwise he wouldn't be condemned, then why are we taking away from the family the device he's otherwise receiving to provide the child with it? And you're always saying, "Well, that's not what you're going to spend it on anyway, but grief knows what, and everyone has a long list of things, but I draw your attention to the fact that, by the way, such a child is being protected by child protection, which means, among other things, that child protection will be controlled, quite rightly, but we're not giving money from the system, but we're taking the money from the family that you could feed this child. So if he was convicted of a deliberate crime, then he doesn't have to eat anymore? She doesn't need a bus pass to go to school anymore? It's also a total absurdity, connecting things that just don't belong together. Criminal liability has its rules. There would also be a means to better involve the family in prevention, because then it would make sense. You don't have to deal with the family when there's already an act of violence, you have to deal with it long before. I think that, by the way, schools know who these troubled children are, but they don't have the means to solve these problems. For example, the social care system is in the condition it is in, people are working there for a salary that is humiliating, and unfortunately, there are so few that there is simply not enough resources there. Once again, I can say that if this is a problem, provide resources for family support services, provide resources for child protection to be able to deal with these families in substance. And also provide resources so that they can not only punish but also support and help, it will really help. In summary, I can therefore say that this is a wrong bill, in a kind of bad sense, seeking a police solution. In this form, it will not solve school problems, it will not solve even the problem of school violence. On the contrary, it will dig even deeper a ditch between school and student, school and family. That's not the solution to the problem, that's the problem.
u2020-06-09-110	The approach that does not treat families as partners, and which does not look for them in students, is not looking for how to save students with problems, even raising them against negative family effects, where appropriate, but is looking for how to regulate and punish them, it will only make all problems worse. Therefore, let alone we cannot support this bill, but we also consider it outrageous, faulty and harmful. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-111	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, lead speaker of the LMP, is next. Here. [[14.40]] Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in such an easy situation when I have to talk about this law, for a man has many thoughts and feelings when he reads this bill. In this House, I have repeatedly spoken out against violence in schools, just as I have spoken out against domestic violence. At first, when I read the title of the law, I even felt that I might be glad that this law had been established. It is a fact that violence within the school has been bitten, not only against teachers, but also against children in various acts of violence against each other. It's not just a fight made out of impulse, it's drug use, maybe robbing or blackmailing someone else, taking their money, and so on. Thus, a number of activities are now taking place in educational institutions, which have not been so numerous in the past. But why is this happening? Because of the social situation of families, or even children living in domestic violence. They must be more exposed to this, even if they experience everyday violence, that he himself will become violent or even violent, because in his fear he will actually simply let himself go. But something has to be done, and it has to be seen, and as I have already said, I have spoken on this issue several times, and I have asked the government to do something. That's not exactly what I was thinking. The people before me told me that they lack complexity in this law. By that, I mean, the question arises that the answer is indeed a kind of violence. A lot of people have described their views, trade unions, parents and other participants, even older students. Many wonder whether those who will be employed here are the school guards, apart from being fortunately involved in children's psychology and pedagogical training, whether they will know how, when to intervene and to what extent. This bill sounds pretty good until the coercive instruments are listed. It's scary in me as a parent when I read that it's a baton, handcuffs, and a chemical weapon. I guess it's mostly pepper spray or something, so you can call the kid off. Let's just think about the fact that I see a 12-13-year-old kid in front of my mind, a grown man grabs me and, say, cuffs his hand back. You're laughing in vain, Mr. Secretary. That's what you're suggesting that this could happen at any time. How do we know that the particular security guard or school guard has the right balance mentally that he will not do so in the event of provocation, for example? I believe that after that, the consequence will be that you will not do this again, because you will probably be fired, which is very good, but will you really be able to reduce yourself and intervene at the right level? Therefore, it is very important and interesting to see the extent to which the fitness test will be carried out. Although, unfortunately, I missed the good part of the expo, there will be a medical examination. I hope that this will be a very thorough and comprehensive investigation, as it should be noted that as violent as these children, in any case, are children. We hear the kid first a lot. The safety of the child and his safety is really important. Therefore, speaking of a school guard, is this also an opportunity to resolve the conflict between children, but I have not read this, or does the bill refer solely to acts against teachers? Of course, it would be very good for school psychologists to be more involved in the prevention of these conflicts and, let us say, in all schools or educational institutions, to be able to become school psychologists. I know it's supposed to be possible, but there are times when you do this in more schools, and in many cases it's just that you open up that little room, you sit there, you take time off, and when someone comes to you, you help. But much more emphasis should be placed on conflict management in the curriculum, or in other ways, therapeutic trainings could also be carried out. Let's just think that the child who's violent might be a victim himself. I think we should never ignore that. In addition, I have been talking to several teachers who have reported that in many cases they are not prepared to deal with these conflicts and conflict situations. So their training would be very important, as well as their mental assistance. This may sound strange, but there are a lot of teachers who are in a bad state by the end of the school year, if they are in a school where violence is common, even verbal violence. If you can't handle this and you don't get proper spiritual support, then, yes, it can get worse. So mental health care is very important to teachers and children. Therefore, I think it would be very important that the various actors in the family support service and in school and child protection have a much closer relationship with each other, and that, perhaps, during the more effective operation of the signalling systems, other events that hide behind these acts of violence could be revealed. I'm thinking of either a bad social situation or a starved child, a abused child or a child who regularly sees violence. There is, of course, the responsibility of the family, and it is clear, I can totally agree with that, but today it is not only the family who raises the child, but also the educator who works in the educational institution. It's especially hard to tell by how old you are when you say you're a child. There are legal adjutant definitions, but I think that an elementary school kid is just a kid. The child is not yet fully aware of his responsibility, and he does not necessarily commit these actions with premeditated intent, and I do not think that he can think with the head of an adult, and I am sure he does not. But since we're the adults, and we're here to talk about it, it would be nice to find a solution. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-06-09-112	Personally, I could support this bill, although it has not yet been decided within a faction, but when the word stick and handcuffs came before my eyes, I was greatly discouraged by this willingness to support me. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-113	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Tamás Mellar, lead speaker of the Dialogue, please. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Our starting point, I think, is the same, because there is no one in this room who does not think that this is a very important problem and does not think that school violence must be eliminated, school violence must be eliminated, violence has no place in school. Secretary Maruzsa said that there will probably be an instrument debate here, not a goal, because we are broadly agreed on the target. Indeed, in the list of tools, he talked about tools such as school psychologists, the creation of different groups and other things, which I think can indeed be forward-looking. But it was based, in fact, on the fact that this goal is very important, that violence must be eliminated, and therefore any means can ultimately be used, and that the end justifies the means, so that, as such an ultimatum rate, this school guard can be considered as a last resort. This is trying to give the most drastic and harsh solution to this whole problem, but it is not a solution to it, but, I think, the escalation of the whole problem, because violence cannot be answered by force. One of my fellow Members said, and I think it is a Christian Democrat, that this violence should be used for deterrent purposes. I think violence will give birth to violence. As a result, society is becoming more and more divided, so segregation and ghettoism are becoming stronger, because this is not a solution to the issue and the problem. [[14.50]] Another fellow Member, and many even spoke of the family, is that the responsibility of the family is very great. This is certainly true, since we bring basic values and standards of conduct from the family. But let's take it one step further, because with the family, I think it's impossible to stop, because then the family from which the child comes is why. Why is this family where these aggressive kids come from? Why are they given such values while other families receive different values? Is it because for some reason ab ovo was born to bad people, or are they bad families, and therefore it cannot be changed? I think that this is not the case, but that a significant proportion of these families live in financial conditions, are in a disadvantage that does not allow them to fit into society in a positive way. A significant part of this and the children who grow up here do not have the chance to catch up, and consequently such absolute wrong and wrong and non-evolvement behaviors develop. Let us not forget, however, that the income gap in Hungary has grown tremendously in the last 20-25 years and especially in the last 10 years. While 30-40 years ago, the income ratio between the lowest and the highest levels of income was 1:4, the ratio is now 1:8.5 and 1:9. Moreover, if you look at the share of family allowances in the lower four income tenths, you can see that it is 20-30 percent less than the upper, 8, 9 and 10. In other words, a completely flawed social policy contributes to this, and it follows that these families are in this type of situation, which families are not able to really show positive patterns to children. These children, who come out of these families, start at a disadvantage when they're in kindergarten, so at a later stage, even in terms of understanding text and other things, and then reading ability and other things, which, unfortunately, leads them to be more prone to aggression. So I think it would be very important for the government to try to improve the situation of low-income families, because this could significantly improve the issue of school aggression, because if we think about it and think back, say, a story from 50 to 60 years ago, I know it was socialism then, but there was no school aggression at all! And why wasn't there school aggression? A lot of things can be said, but for example, one thing was that at the time there was an alternative for disadvantaged, poor children, even for Roma families, an opportunity to catch up. I went to a school, a class where 30% of my classmates were Roma, and there was no particular problem, each had a job, each had a certain perspective and opportunity. Or let me give you an example today, the example of the Cserdi, where we are also talking about very disadvantaged children, Roma, a village inhabited by Roma, where 20-30 years ago, there was indeed the same blasphemous conditions as there are now in some places. Then a mayor came along and started a change in the way that these kids are now studying in high school. So I think that we should not give up one third of society, we should try to raise them, we should bring them into this society, and we should not solve the issue by creating a school guard, with which we can, in fact, survive the opportunity, because then we separate these people, we shut them away from the others, and we ignore them very much.
u2020-06-09-114	By the way, it was very interesting that the Secretary of State stressed that it would not be introduced in church schools, right? This is the school guard. I think this is not a coincidence, because if you look at church schools, you can also see that families of very different types of social composition go there, with different motivations and other material conditions, and this obviously has a significant impact on this whole issue. In fact, in dealing with this whole problem, I think that we should focus rather than on the school guard, but rather on a complex social approach, which is undoubtedly true, is a relatively long process, but I think that we cannot save it, because without this, this problem will stay much more and more here, and the separation of society into two parts will become more and more intense, which will result in more and more violence. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-115	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The law on the establishment of the school police, I think, is the failure of our society. If one of the biggest social problems in modern Hungarian society is that by psychological, sociological and pedagogical means we cannot solve the suppression of school aggression of our children, but we need the police to do so, then we can say that we have failed, all of us. When the child is born, we say that it will come into the world. That's a beautiful way of putting it. Yeah. The child doesn't just come to the parents, he comes to the world. We're all born as treasure, whether we have a blood link or not. Why is this so important? However many professional jobs, however many research work you see, all of them, of course, state that in the development of children's personalities, schools and parents have a shared task, which they must strengthen, harmoniously do, but I say that this thinking is not enough. The whole society is responsible for the child, apart from the teacher and parent. How many times do we see a situation where the child is not among his teachers or his parents, but in a completely foreign environment, where he is surrounded by a known or alien person, they see the forms of behaviour that would require education, or that attitude towards compliance should be helped, and this social group, even if it is noticed, does not speak. Hungarian society has been silent for the last 30 years when it comes to the behaviour of children and young people. Our society has been so individualized in the last 30 years that we have forgotten our children. Today, of course, we are yelling, and whether we wish for legislation or for police, only one thing everyone does not think of is how many situations in their own life where they could have spoken or spoken, or said that one well-directed sentence to the child or young person who might have learned a proper, correct lesson for their eternal life, and his behavior would have changed. [[15.00]] The literature says that the intensity of child and juvenile delinquency has been steadily increasing in recent years. What a sad sentence! While we are hearing from the Minister of the Interior year after year that the number of crimes has decreased significantly. What does that mean? That, while the adult society is somewhat more norm-abiding because we should hope that the difference will not be caused by the number of undetected crimes, the deviance and willingness of our children and young society to follow standards will decrease to this extent, or deviance will increase. Then the literature says that the deviant behaviors that are being conducted by society are sick. The same thing I said at the beginning: they are born into the world, born among us, and deviant people, children, young people are sick of society. True, the largest responsible community is the family from which these children are launched. Yes, the second responsible social group is the educators' society, the women who live with it in childhood, kindergarten nurses, daycare workers. Still, the child and the young live not only between them but also in the broad social group system where we all live our lives. And let us not forget that the child has lived not only in the family, not only in the pedagogical circle, not only in the protective women's system, in the kindergarten and day care system, but also in the society of the world from the very early age of the IT world. Well, think about it, when you're a few years old, you can run a smartphone better than a 50-year-old, because you get it in your hands, and as a result of your incredible smartness and creativity, you can use it, and at that moment, the world is ringing into your life, and with this world, all the harm that social media is going to bring into our children's lives every day. The literature says that the family's values and standards determine basically how young a child becomes and how grown up he becomes. Yes, it is the family's values, but when we find ourselves in whatever role we are in kindergarten nurses, daycare workers, teachers, perhaps some other kind of work that meets the child, we need to see it very early that the child comes from a family where the norm and values do not convey normal social relations, it is not the norm that that that family raises the child. We often say that poverty and disadvantage determine the deviant nature of children and their possible tendency to violence. This, please, is not supported by the literature at all. There is nothing more poor children who may be violent than from a family with a better way, where, unfortunately, wealth does not raise modesty in the child, but that we can afford anything. There are a lot of deviant children in the new families of the last decades, and in alcohol and drug consumption, they are practically the highest number of families. My husband used to say that genetics is a great master. That's true, because then we can raise you in the most beautiful, tasty, normal, loving environment if your child's genetically justified personality development cannot follow it. Yeah. But for all of us who are part of the child's life and see his behavior at close range, we have a very wide toolbox to mitigate genetically encoded, possibly not so norm-following behavior, to decompose game drives, to set examples for children, whether children or adults, and in the child there is a willingness to follow, a tendency to follow. Then I would also like to talk about this topic, so that you do not forget one thing, fellow Members, today we are living in a society of disrespect. Let's take a look at the social media. A multitude of children who see people's words written either on Facebook or in other electronic systems of this type, see those endless gross, absolute disrespectful entries; why would the child take the view that if adult society talks to each other this way, why should I speak respectfully to the educator? What examples do children have? ! And how proud people in social media are to write these nasty posts, how proud they are to accept that they can say what they think. Yes, he just doesn't know what a negative example of this mass disrespect is to go into school and do the same to their teachers. In the second half of my speech, I would like to talk about the details of this proposal. It is about that in all non-church schools, public schools, primary and secondary schools, there will be a school police officer, who will have the right authority by law. The proposal says that during the teaching period, the school police must carry out their duties. I just want to draw attention to the following. There is a need to define the teaching time, because many children are not only in the effective classes or during school hours, they can either stay in open schools on sports fields, gyms, or even special sessions, so I do not know at all what time the school police will actually be in schools from what time to what time, because otherwise, if a child develops the willingness to be aggressive or to hurt the teacher, he may be hurt while the teacher is in or out of school, even if he feels that he can reprimand his grievances in this way. So I would like the author of the proposal to define this a little bit better, because I think that as many schools will interpret it in so many ways, and let us not forget that we have been familiar with countless such school atrocities, where it is not effective in teaching time, but either outside or when the teacher arrived at or out of school, there have been aggressive behaviors against him that the media then picked up. This proposal broadens the scope of criminal offences where criminality has been reduced to 12 years. I have protested at the very first such intention, on the one hand, as a professional, and, on the other hand, as a mother and a person responsible for society, because I think that a 12-year-old child, however fast the world is developing, is not yet able to fully understand the consequences of his actions. But we are here with this proposal and, indeed, for several crimes, the legislator has already set the limit of criminality to 12 years. In this system of rules, it is also stated that a 12-year-old child can be convicted or has consequences if he has the discretion to recognise the consequences of his crime. That will be the most serious question. Who will say that at the moment that 12-year-old really saw the consequences of his actions? While we know that this is usually examined by expert studies, we should also know that as many experts, usually in these situations, have as many opinions as possible, or are usually prepared well after the commission, or that the expert is not part of the momentary situation, the escalated situation in which the child makes a decision to carry out acts of violence. It is proposed that school police will operate in all schools from 1 September. But only then will the Ministry of Home Affairs, on the one hand, and on the other, the Ministry of Human Resources, on the other hand, establish the government regulations that allow the police to be selected and, on the other hand, establish a system of standards for their education. [[15.10]] It's June 9th now. September 1st is almost here. We know very well that there is still an excessive shortage of police personnel, so I find it almost impossible to select school policemen from the current police force. Indeed, the proposal extends the range of possible school police or school guards by recalling the retired police officers, but believe me, fellow Members, it is impossible to begin this system by 1 September in line with the spirit and practical application of the legislation. I looked at the numbers, there are 8870 primary and secondary education institutions, i.e. they must find at least 8870 schoolmasters by September, endowing them with rights, endowing them with knowledge, integrating them into the given educational institution, and in fact this work should be provided to them from 1 September with the highest confidence and the most efficient. I can't imagine that this could be accomplished until then. But I would like to emphasise and respectfully ask the representatives of the government, and I hope that my fellow Members are on this basis, too, after they have been voted for by my pro-government fellow Members, and probably also from the opposition, let us say that this is only temporary.
u2020-06-09-116	Let's just say it's not supposed to be school police between the kids. Let us say that together we will do everything to ensure that after children come into the world, come among us, we are all responsible for what kind of childhood, what youth and what kind of adult life we will experience, that we are striving, not primarily by law, but by strengthening the institutional system and professionals, that this is only temporary, and that it is only for the treatment of the symptom, but that is not what we intend for the future generation, and that is not how we want the next generation to grow up between us. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-117	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This would be an opportunity for two-minute speeches, but since no one has asked for such an opportunity, we are not living with it. Thus, a pre-notified speaker, Mrs Dóra Dúró, may speak as an independent Member. Here you go. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Based on their preliminary statements, I thought and almost believed that there would be a problem that they would be able to solve normally, but unfortunately I was disappointed when I read this proposal. The whole problem is perceived as a symptomatic treatment and only answers to it, but the root of the problem is not affected at all by this bill before us. The whole situation has developed because for 30 years Hungarian politics has been sitting on the other side of the horse. The question is that we can protect children who go to school every day and want to study normally and safely. In the current situation, in the last 30 years, we can say this, and unfortunately the answer is no. This is also a confession from you, because if you had been able to deal effectively with school violence in the last ten years, as you could not, and this would have been reduced, then such radical action would not be necessary, because this is also considered radical in comparison to what has already been done. If we turn this whole issue into a legal issue, we can grab the root of the problem so that we can guarantee the right to study to young people, children who are motivated, want to learn, and the needs of parents who wish to keep their children safe can be met by the state all over the country. Because that is the fundamental issue, and yes, it should be said that their rights precede the rights of those who raise their own children to criminal lifestyles. My fellow Member, István Apáti, proposed the delivery of the age of criminality to 12 years already in 2011, also in cases included in this proposal, but better late than never, we are glad that this national radical claim has been incorporated into this bill at least now. If we are to not only provide symptomatic treatment for the problem of school violence, but we are to seize it and really eliminate this phenomenon, then we should go to the bottom of it and say that, yes, parents have a responsibility and that parents' responsibility should also be reflected in the legislation. When I suggested, in the previous term, that the absence of parents in relation to school relations should also be sanctioned by the withdrawal of school support, then the pro-government representatives came to me with what a criminal attitude I represent and how harsh this sanction is, which I wanted to introduce. For example, Zoltán Pakusa, president of Mi Hazank Borsod County, taught for 15 years at a school in Miskolc where parents were not willing to cooperate, so he had a class teacher for five years and did not know his parents for many of the children. So for five years, the parent never contacted the school. It is very nice to talk about different trainings, which will involve parents, but the great Hungarian reality is that, not only do they not attend trainings, but they do not talk to the classroom teacher for five years. And it was regular that five of the 28-year-olds didn't show up at the parent-teacher meetings. This is the situation that we need to answer, and it is indeed a fundamental obligation for the parent to keep in touch with the school. We also need to say that school violence is more widespread there, which is higher in school types and regions with higher Roma rates. These are the vocational schools and the region of North-East Hungary. This is also clear from the survey and study of the Commissioner for Educational Rights. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. A lot of people have described this problem nicely, but let's see that school violence is in many cases a representation of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence in schools. And if we want to deal with this problem in depth, it is not enough to try to symptomatically eliminate it with a school guard, but we should say that children who can abide by standards are the first to enforce their rights. They do not have to leave Gyöngyöspata, nor any other settlements, but we must ensure that the educational institution in its own settlement can function in a normal way; and only because they cannot tolerate those who do not want or can not fit into these standards, they must go. It's unfair, and we've been maintaining this system for 30 years. And unfortunately, there will continue to be cases for which the school guard will not be able to respond effectively. Therefore, if we do not say this groundwork, that we cannot allow the minority to put the majority that abide by standards in the background, then we will not be able to tackle this problem effectively. Unfortunately, we are not only meeting on Gyöngyöspata, although I myself have been there two weeks, and talking to people on the street, they have not only told me about problems in school. If I had to sum up what people in the majority society said in the same sentence, then I could best express it by saying that someone is trying to live with them. And it's not just about violence, it's about a lot of other things, thefts. Yesterday afternoon I spoke to a Hungarian youth who attended this school during the so-called segregation period, and he spoke to me not only about violent crimes, but also about the thefts, the discipline problems that simply prevented the lives of the majority of Hungarian children in Gyöngyöspata, and not only in the school, but also outside the school. So if we really think that children, young people who want to live a normal life in school and later on, should be the first, then we need to handle this much more effectively, and we need to say that, yes, children who are unable to comply with standards must be highlighted from these communities. 'Cause this young man I talked to yesterday, he said he's already starting his life, he's starting a family, he's deciding where he's gonna live. And this young man is not going to build on Gyöngyöspata. He is fleeing from there because this situation still exists; and it is not that it is just for those who are causing this problem, for whom young people who are working there are fleeing. [[15.20]] We should turn the horse around and say it's over. But not only must it be a school guard, but it must be the first to enforce the rights of normal children, and we must not allow ourselves to run away from Gyöngyöspata or other settlements of the country, unfortunately. The nationally comprehensive survey, which I consider to be the most professionally credible, was carried out by the Commissioner for Educational Rights. I would also recommend it to the Secretary of State, and I would ask the Secretary of State to repeat this with the same methodology, because it would be extremely effective and useful if we could see how this survey was carried out in 2009 and how the situation with regard to school violence changed after 10-11 years, which would also help decision-makers. According to the Commissioner, this cost only HUF 10 million, so it would probably not be so heavy on the Ministry's budget if it could be done again. I would like to highlight one more aspect of this, since it makes me think that we live in a country where two thirds of children say that they have already been victims of school violence. Two thirds of our children out of every three children say that he was already a victim of school violence. This is extremely shocking and also draws attention to the need for action. But we have known this since 2009, and now, in 2020, we are still talking about the fact that the situation in our schools has not improved. I would also like to draw the attention of Mr Secretary of State to the professional programmes of the National Crime Prevention Council, which Mr State Secretary also referred to. In my view, these also represent an extremely high level of professionalism and are rightly popular among teachers, perhaps too popular, as the state does not finance as much further training as there is over-subscribe to these conflict management and school violence trainings. More specifically, it's ten times over-logged. I would ask Mr Secretary of State to provide adequate budgetary resources for this too, so that teachers can obtain these trainings, so that they can deal more effectively with the conflicts that are really becoming more widespread. I have to say a few more words about the responsibility of the parents, since many people have said that the parents and the school are raising the child together, but I am going further. It is primarily the responsibility of the parent to raise the child. The school can complement this, the school can teach, pass on knowledge, socialize, help the community child to acquire all knowledge and skills in this regard, but it is the parent who takes responsibility for the child, who must take responsibility for the consequences of his children's actions, and the parent who is primarily responsible for his own child. An educator, a school psychologist, or a school policeman must, of course, take part in the education and education of the child, but it is primarily the family where these standards must be taught to children. So parents' responsibility for school violence is also a priority. That is why it would be justified to show their responsibility even in relation to the withdrawal of school support.
u2020-06-09-118	I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State not to stop halfway, and to give normal young people the opportunity to start a family in their own birthplace, to sell their children to school, and no one has to flee from any school, not from any settlement because there are people there who refuse to comply with the standards. The bill will, of course, be supported by representatives of our country. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-119	Thank you. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is first, MSZP, please. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There have been a lot of valuable thoughts and contributions here in the last few minutes in the debate, and I would also like to thank my fellow opposition Members, but also my fellow pro-government Members, for continuing this debate with sufficient seriousness and professionalism. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. One is that it might be a little more worthwhile to see that we are actually at the end of the road, that we are running out of pedagogical tools, and that is why we need some very extreme intervention. For my part, although it is a fact and a fact that I am not an expert on the subject, I am also very seriously interested in this question as a father, what are the statistics that allow us to say that this is the end of the road, and it has just come to this point that we have no other means than to use police in schools. It is worth knowing how extensive this problem is. Where's it concentrated? We are talking about 500 schools here, and it might also be useful to see how this is distributed geographically. My other question is that you have taken into account the opinion of the National Teacher Faculty on this issue. I was also given this letter, which was written about the draft legislative amendments needed to eliminate and prevent school violence, although they did not have much time to comment, as I understood, because I think they had a 24-hour opportunity to comment, but they do raise a number of proposals and additions that I think are worth considering. Allow me to take a look at this. They say that the school warden should be employed on the basis of the school's needs, so only if the board agrees with this; that the school guard's mandate should always be limited; and then that the conditions of the school guardian's operation should, of course, be granted to the maintainer. Then the next thing you know, if the school warden has already eliminated the specific threat, then the school warden can only propose further measures and let the head of the institution decide. They also have a proposal to give the head of the institution the right of command over the school warden. Other measures have also been proposed: give schools the power to impose disciplinary measures resulting from breaches of school rules, such as suspension, lifting from the community, requiring conflict management training, discounts, proposals for suspension of benefits with the competent authority. Or, for example, to employ full-time child and youth protection officers in all schools; either to have a higher number of school psychologists or to increase the number of pedagogical assistants in this proposal for you. If you will do so, Mr Secretary, to discuss what you might have been able to accept or what you thought was important, I thank you. I see that, as Congressman Horváth has said, although he has just left the room, indeed, everyone agrees with the goals. So there is no question that school violence must be eliminated. He said, however, that if I had written correctly that the abuse of teachers should be stopped; he probably thought that school violence should be eliminated, since not only teachers can be abused, but also one schoolmate, so that school violence should be stopped in Hungarian. And it is clear that the debate also shows that various instruments are seen as effective by the various Members in this regard. [[15.30]] This is a social problem about this Varga-Damm Andrea also talked longer, which is very diverse. At first glance, or perhaps from a distance, this could be a simple problem. There's violence in school, you have to send the police, and then they'll solve the problem, because they're the authorized representatives of the state. But the more we talk and the closer we get to the problem, the deeper this problem becomes, so it seems that symptomatic treatment is not enough. So I understand, and I am sure that, if we run out of pedagogical tools, if we can't do anything in certain places, then this can be an acceptable short-term solution, so that we can quickly deal with the problem and isolate it, but this cannot in any way be a long-term solution or even a solution, because it can also happen that, say, a school guard can only force violence out of school, but it doesn't actually eliminate violence itself. It is not much better if children beat each other not in school, but out of the gate, five meters out, as this is not the long-term solution to the issue either. It is clear that there is a complex, diverse problem here, the causes are diverse, and therefore the solution must be complex. Therefore, an important question is the intention of the government to really roll up the sleeve and face this problem. After all, if we are to do this, it is not enough to use merely police means, but then there is also a need for educational, pedagogical and social policy instruments. These are the ones that will be able to address the root of the problem, and, unfortunately, this will not be available in the short term, but rather in the long term. We therefore believe that the government is doing the right thing by trying to balance prevention, supporting, developing pedagogy and, where appropriate, the various non-police sanctions in this regard. I have heard a sentence or two from the Secretary of State, which seemed to suggest that he is involved in government thinking, that the three of prevention, supporting, developing pedagogy and non-executive police sanctions, or the balance of this, can provide a solution, but one thing is certain that this problem cannot be solved simply by police officers. This problem can only be solved by teachers, and I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that perhaps there should be much more attention to the opinion of teachers, and, of course, there must be much more help for teachers to deal with these problems. For my part, I think such a temporary solution is possible if it is a temporary solution and if we do not think that it will fundamentally solve this problem. Again, I think it's a symptomatic treatment. Congresswoman Hohn has made many points that are certainly worrying about the procedure. This will also be shown by the practice of where what is needed, because the first reading of pepper spray and the baton is suddenly not what you first remember when you think of a school or in dealing with a school conflict. My other problem is that, indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it is always necessary to think that because people are working everywhere, people can make mistakes, or even, where appropriate, the possibility of overstepping is possible by a system, not knowingly, of course, or in a poorly assessed situation, a bad action can cause more damage if it is not done. We see some serious examples of this in the world, and I would not particularly like to mention what kind of fires a false decision can literally start in a country. Therefore, I would take due care and care in this regard, and I would therefore put more emphasis on pedagogy, development, psychology, social policy, and only in the case of the last 10 percent, i.e. the last 10 percent or 1 percent of the solution, to make my point even more, I would think of the police in schools. I think that it would be worthwhile for the opposition to be given reassuring answers in this, because if Mr State Secretary was watching, I tried to follow the debate carefully, the opposition representatives, I think that they have expressed professionally sound concerns, either criticisms or opinions, and that no one did so, not just for party policy purposes, but in the logic of worrying about children.
u2020-06-09-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-06-09-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. We would now be able to make two-minute speeches, but as no one has come forward to do so, we will return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the ordinary word. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative may speak. Here. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As we have made good progress in the debate, I have the opportunity to respond to some of the things that have been said rather than repeat what my fellow Members have already said on the subject. On the one hand, I cannot stand to say, not at first, but relatively firmly that we are part of a marketing campaign or a political campaign. It's a communication element in the ingenuity of the Pearl Pata case. Let's consider that a fact. On the other hand, in my own opinion, I can say that the proposal before us will provide no solution to anything in the world, and then I would like to briefly explain why, to a large extent, I am responding to what has been said. There's a classic saying that you can't stop a cop from getting slapped, and it doesn't make any sense. The same is the case with the school police, it sounds so great because it can be sold to people, it can be built with very good political communication in the Pearlespatai case, only if people think about it a little bit, or if the State Secretary also takes the liberty to start listing professional arguments, then it turns out that there is no such thing. There will be no positive consequences for being school police, not in every institution, much less than the full circle, but I suppose the Secretary of State will respond to that. It's about 500 institutions, if I remember correctly, it's only a small fraction, a fraction of the total number of jobs. And why it won't produce any results is relatively simple, because this doesn't have any deterrent effect on a 13-year-old child, don't give it to a god or a 12-year-old child. Mr Horváth has set the example that because of the KRESZ rules and so on. I would just like to point out that the KRESZ also works in a way that keeps changing, dynamically, constantly monitoring statistics, monitoring traffic, monitoring accident and death statistics, and where they see intervention, they modify the KRESZ. For example, the seat belt was introduced so that they found that many people die in an accident, if I remember correctly, an inventor in Sweden realized that this could be reduced, tried, and the result was that fewer people would die then, so it was introduced. And people didn't start using their seat belts because the cops started punishing people, they did, but the reason people actually started using them is because whoever got a new driver's license taught that, the people who already had their driver's license were trained on the existing communication channels. And people realize that I'm wearing a seat belt because it saves my life. That's usually the way it is with CPR modifications. Obviously, there are always renants who turn it on just because the policeman is punishing you, but this minority, they put on that t-shirt that has a black line across it that looks like it's being used, but it's not actually used for punishment. That is why the example that Mr Horváth raised was wrong in the first place. It's a marketing operation, that's what it's about. [[15.40]] That's what we're talking about in education, because obviously there's school violence, and I'm trying to protect everyone from idealizing it as if it's been 20 or 30 years since there's been any violent or aggressive activity in this school. I can even give you one or two of my own examples, which if a teacher did with a child today, he'd be looking at a pretty serious procedure, but I've seen worse things that have been done to my peers, or the kids have been fighting in schools. Obviously, statistically, it has grown a little, but I wouldn't say it was a long time ago, and now it's completely wrong. There are problems that need to be addressed, but in order to return to my KRESZ example, I need to monitor, monitor, filter, and what Attila Mesterházy has put up here, I need to send a school psychologist, a development educator, or a mediator to help me solve it. The problem in Gyöngyöspatán will not be solved by sending school guards to change schools. There we have already found a new school principal, started building a whole new faculty, trying to tackle the problem with a new approach, working on how to involve the local, non-Gypsy community in this, trying to work things out together. That's the direction, they should be given more support. And that's gonna solve the problem, not the school warden. The other thing I often hear here in the past hour and a half is that it will be resolved by lowering the age of criminality. Well, I'd just like to read the relevant 16th of the criminal code in force. If, at the time of the offence, he was 12 years of age and at the time of the offence, he had the discretion to recognise the consequences of the offence, he could not be punished if he was not 14 years of age at the time of the criminal offence, except for the perpetrator of murder, manslaughter, assault, acts of terrorism, robbery and looting. So what's written here is all in the law. The only thing that comes in addition here, and I note in parentheses, if I remember this correctly, is the 2013 amendment, then they justified the introduction of this by reducing the age limits of criminality because of the high level of aggression among juveniles. It's been seven years, if I remember correctly that this is the 2013 rule, and now they're coming up with it, and they're starting to make fun of it for the same reason. What do they put in it? They extend the scope of exceptions, if I remember correctly, with the exception of violence against the official person, violence against the public person and violence against the supporter of the official or public person. In English, they don't add anything extra to this, they can only achieve the interesting situation that the school is there, let's say, let's assume that two children are fighting, no matter what reason, they fight. The school warden considers that he should separate the two children there, jump on them, cuff them with anything, but let's put it aside, he doesn't take out any of them, he tries to tear them apart, because what he could do, miserable, right, he's trying to get between them, so he's probably gonna do that. Now, probably one of the crazy kids will kick him in the ankles, don't give him a break, he'll fall, he'll break a finger for this guard, and then he'll go up against him for assaulting an official. So, they're not really gonna solve anything in a given world with it, and I'm telling you, the legislation currently in force also allows us to prosecute children between the ages of 12 and 14; I don't agree with that either. It is in the same way that I have read it, it is in the legislation that the ability to see is to be examined, which has been established in recent years. If I remember correctly, there was such a case when a child was convicted, and it was sent to a correctional institution. But it didn't decrease, did it, school aggression, because there was no solution. That's all I'm trying to say. And there's one more thing I'd like to raise. Everyone here, Mr Horváth, when he spoke, is talking about the fact that school violence is done by the child, or in some way, either by protecting his child, or in any case, but by a parent appearing and acting on his child's behalf, but this is not just the case. Why don't you tell us about Gyöngyöspata, where this principal is, and why did he leave? ! Right? Because they told him... there was an accelerated procedure, and they told the principal, come on, go away, because he committed physical violence. There was a police report, and the D.A.'s office just suspended this procedure, if I remember correctly, for a year and four months, because he said that, well, that principal really pushed the kid against the wall no matter why, he pushed the kid against the wall with bruises, and that's a felony. He just suspended her because she didn't think about it, and I can't suddenly recite the D.A.'s decision, but the point is, she was acting almost out of a sudden temper. But there is such an example, even within Gyöngyöspata, so it's not just a one-way street.
u2020-06-09-122	The problem is that these examples also point out that we are part of a marketing operation here, and this is not going to solve anything at all. You'll go home, you'll tell me very well how well you've worked this out, because there's a law amendment to the Pearl Patans that doesn't help at all. I'm telling you, I suggest that Gyöngyöspata will be helped if there is money for school psychologists, development educators, more teachers, because there are very few. You've been talking to the school principal, of course, you know that there should be an extra teacher there, and you should help him there, Gyöngyöspatán, how the local community can be forged, so that the Gypsy and non-Gypsy residents can finally begin to understand, and in the long term it will only be possible not to take children to schools in the surrounding settlements. 'Cause that's what's happening right now. That's what we need to help the headmistress who works there. He's working on it. This law won't help him at all. Nothing! He needs professional help and a positive attitude from a local representative to try not to touch it with a criminal code again, but to bring professionals there! Keep monitoring, action plan, how to solve this, psychologist, and the rest, I've told you several times. Work on this, please, and don't drag the Parliament into this kind of political action. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-123	Thank you. We will continue with the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz, please. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have said that this is the end of the road, and I say that in some ways this is the beginning of the road. And from the point of view that we are finally willing to speak frankly about a burning problem. 'Cause the thing is, I wasn't allowed to talk straight about this case. And the reason why a lot of parents don't talk is because they're affected parents because they're forbidden. Because if he had spoken, then at that moment there would have been all sorts of activists and journalists, and they would have immediately told me that he was a racist. I did not start to gypsy on the subject of this debate, but the fact is that it was not possible to speak honestly, and the reason why this issue has been dealt with for a long time is because it was forbidden to speak honestly about it. And it's been banned for a long time because mainstream media and, by the way, left-wing politicians and liberals assume that only the minority can suffer harm on the part of the majority. It was never possible to say that there is a situation where the minority violates the rights of the majority. And if it permanently violates the rights of the majority, the majority will otherwise back out. Because in public speaking, most people didn't feel that anyone could protect him, because that kind of speech wasn't. And it's also not true that you didn't know him before. Well, also, Mr Arató, if not at any other time, at the time of his undersecretary of state, it is certain that he met with the cases that happened in Hadház, Ózdon, Budapest, Mándok, and when you were State Secretary, the State Secretary in charge of the area, he also met with the number of times, but how many times, the various organizations of teachers asked that Parliament or commission to address this issue. [[15.50]] However, from the point of view of this debate, I think it is valuable that we have finally reached it, even if we have a sharp debate between us, that we are finally pushing the area of truth. And it was good for Gyöngyöspata, obviously I deeply disagree with what he said about Gyöngyöspata, but Gyöngyöspata was good that there was a strong confrontation that went beyond the comfort zone. But the thing is, it is always necessary, and we will not go further until we bring here not the facts of truth and not real life, but different concepts. Because it's not true... and if someone uses this debate again for marketing, and can't get rid of the urge and obsession to say it again, the Orbán government is dictatorial, if anyone thinks that a sign of equality between order and dictatorship should be put in order, it has such a poor sense of concept that they don't know that order is not the opposite of dictatorship, it is the disorder. The order is against anarchy. There is no freedom against order, and there is no truth against it. But if someone ends up saying capitulation and giving up on everyone and punishing poor families, and the rest, then he's obviously crooked and out of the way of honest speech. For example, if we say to help poor families, then let's take out Gyöngyöspata again. After Gyöngyöspatan, when they were not yet in league with the Jobbik, they made the big deal in 2011, then what happened? What happened was that gypsy children got a free meal from then on, started the Start sample program, never as many gypsy people have worked on Gyöngyöspata as ever since, there is a new cradle where predominantly gypsy children go, there is a fully renovated kindergarten, also full of gypsy children, there is a school where only 240 million forints arrived last year, there is a free textbook and there is free meals for every needy gypsy child. Tell me, if this isn't about caring for poor families, if this isn't about facilitating child rearing, then what is it? They may call it something else, but they can't tell us that the poor families have been thrown away, we don't care about them, and so on and so forth. But there's a ground-breaking position. And one more thing, even in my day at school, was that if I had been given a warning, I would have wished I had been slapped because I didn't have to take it home. 'Cause if I tell you at home that I got a neck job at school, I'm gonna get the other one at home. It's just that it's gone. By the way, it wasn't socialism, Congressman, that there was no school violence. Because you brought it up without such a thing in socialism. You know, I didn't have one before. My grandfather was a chant teacher in the Highlands between the two world wars, and there wasn't. There were poor kids, believe me. There was never such a thing as a teacher looking for himself to die, and there was never such a thing as having only rich children in these small-town schools, and not being socially weak or poor children in such schools. It was never ordered that a teacher should be loved, but the teacher should be respected. Today, such writings are also about earning it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And one more thing, and I agree with Mrs Dóra Dúró: once we realise that the majority also has rights. The majority of you, one or two of the people on the left, tend to look down on you all the time. With some proud sense of superiority, the majority is always looked down on. By the way, the minority is not considered to be of age, but you believe that the minority is the one to be protected. And behind the politics and dishonest speech of the past decades, it was also that the ghetto was often good, because many times Gyöngyöspatán served the political interests very well, for example in 2011. And those who today reward and reward it in that famous damages suit with money, the model that is about school evasion and violence paying off, remain in favour of this fragmentation. 'Cause what patterns, what models do they promote that they stand up for enthusiastically? ! These are destructive, really divisive models. That we put cops everywhere? Well, they didn't read it. Just where you want it. Wherever you need to go, go there. We told you at the beginning that it's not an exclusive device, you're not-you're-and-and-and. If someone listened carefully to Mr. Secretary of State, he spoke in quite detail about this. Why do you have to degrade it consciously? Because I know you understand the bill, because you're intelligent, smart people. Why should the bill be deliberately, deliberately debauched, why should it be discussed about what it is not? Why do you have to start a panic? It's a matter of responsibility. In response to Congresswoman Varga-Damm, the responsibility belongs to all of us, to the whole of society. We legislators have a little more responsibility. The personal example, and I'm telling him the truth, there's no such thing as a stronger tool. By the way, our symbolic teaching figures have always had the greatest strength of personal credibility and example. If we agree that society and all of us have a responsibility in this regard, then let us begin by ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, here in Parliament. I can also tell Congresswoman that that's when we give each other respect. You don't have to yell in, you don't have to sit in the Prime Minister's chair, you don't have to yell at a loudspeaker, you don't have to stop on the road, you don't have to throw yourself on the floor at a headquarter, you don't have to run into the door, because it's closed anyway. Then let's get started on ourselves. Everyone has a responsibility. And when I get back to panicking, I think of an example from years ago. It's a pearl case where there's been a child murder where parents systematically starved their children to death. Then I didn't bring this case here from a marketing point of view. What was that about? The point was not to hide the child behind closed doors as a means to please the parent, not to exclude the patron, not to take the child to the doctor, not to cooperate with the public education institution, and to give him a driver's license, yes, a coercive driver's license, so that, if necessary, for example, in order to protect the child's life, the child could be used to help the child to enter the apartment. Then there was a terrible panic, congresswoman's flyer from the left, e-mailing, protesting in front of Parliament, saying that a policeman would kick the threshold of the family home, tearing the families apart, and by requiring parents to cooperate with public education institutions, what tragedies we would cause. We didn't cause any tragedy. But what I do know is that there's been a child's life that's been saved because this bill has been made. I think, despite all the slanders and all the hysterical acts, if we've already saved a child's life, then there was a reason for the amendment of the law. And if we use this law amendment to save a teacher or more teachers, more children from being invaded, assaulted, destroyed, and not only physically, because whoever they post on Facebook the humiliating, hard, brutally humiliating images of him is being destroyed in his personality in front of the country-world, well, if we can avoid that in just a few cases with this law amendment, then it's worth it. [[16.00]] There's a lot to talk about, but there's a starting point, like I started at the beginning, which everyone has to follow. The rules may change sometimes, but the red, the red, the red, where they put the red, you have to stop and where they put the stop sign, you have to stop. And there's a definite signal that says, please, the most basic school requirement, the basic requirement, before anyone puts their child in school, you have to guarantee that your child doesn't assault, humiliate, intimidate or abuse teachers and students. And everyone must abide by this basic rule, regardless of the social situation, regardless of origin, because if they do not, they must have consequences. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-124	I'd like to end with what I started from the beginning: order is the soul of everything. I believe in that saying. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-125	Thank you very much. MEP László Hajdu, DK. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Mr President, Dear House, I must admit, every word has been said here for the bill, and I will not say anything new, but I would like to comment in two areas, which is perhaps a new approach. I think that this proposal is a partial admission that the nationalisation of schools into the KLIK was not a fortunate, successful story, since there really is no master of schools, especially there is no powerful owner of schools. If I take that, say, in my constituency, there is a director of two districts, it has a driver's license for almost everything, and then in a school where there is a problem and the case of spontaneous segregation also appears in my district, this is the greatest danger, by the way, spontaneous segregation, and the gesture of the majority has just been said here, or to take the majority into account, the gesture of the majority asking when there is a free choice of schools, will enroll the child to go to that first class. No. Then I'll sign you in. Do you? Then I'll go to another facility. What's the end of this? It will be that in a spontaneous, ascending system in the school 70, 80, and then 100 percent in Budapest, whether we want to do it or not, so we do not need to artificially do it, this is spontaneous. However, part of the problem actually started with nationalisation of schools. From the settlement the teacher, the local intellectuals were separated, the settlement was skimmed from its own intellectuals. The educator reported the volunteer work, the drama group, the dance group, the sport. Today you have no obligation to your settlement, this is not an obligation for you, and you have to ask for permission to do so. Most of the problems that a settlement faces when it comes to organizing the summer camp are visible: a part of the municipalities are still trying to organize the summer camp themselves, while the children are not part of it, and they need permission from the Klebelsberg Kunó institution to come to the camp, to be there for two or three weeks instead of rest, or to pay for it, and to whom we are signing a contract. So such bureaucracy came in instead of what we had been able to spend with teachers in our municipal-owned Balaton and summer camps in different places in a full-service, indoor sleep camp. So I think that this problem has escalated in ten years, that today we have to talk about the fact that the school police, school security, no matter what their name is. I think it's a terrible thing if they're going to maintain order, and not the teachers of medicine, not social policy, not child protection, not the social services, but people walking around with a baton. I don't see the end of this, I just see tragedies, I think. A simple version of the solution, of course, I can see that this is the way it is. It is often said that if President Hiller had just sat up here before 2010, Secretary of State Hiller or Minister would have put forward a bill, it would not have been necessary, but if he had put forward such a bill that he would become a school police, I would be curious to see what campaign the current governing party would have made of this. Well, that's some fantastic protests about police invading schools! So I think that what we are discussing here today, the consequences of this will be even impenetrable. This bill is not about the child, nor about the educator, nor about the families, but about a counter-violence, although there are very serious social policy and family policy issues in the background, there is also a serious housing crisis behind it, labour supply, problems with rent, all of which are involved in the fact that we are finally dealing with this under the title Gyöngyöspata or Lex Gyöngyöspata. Earlier, the item in front of him was about sports. Sport could be a solution to the issue of these overactive children. Today, it can be a replacement athlete whose parents can pay the monthly membership fee, which starts at about HUF 10 thousand, and may be more difficult than sports, such as hockey. When can this kid play sports to control his movements, to be in a community where you have to fight for each other, and where the community itself can raise you? While the school belonged to the municipalities, sports... And these are talented children, because either in folk dance or in music, especially in song and violin, and we had bands like this, and in talented things, a local government could give scholarships. Today they're separated from us, we don't even know the children's names, we don't even know their teachers. In such a situation, a foreign body operates within a settlement because they have been centralised. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-126	By the way, sports could be one of the places where we would spend our time with those kids on scholarships, and they would be educated there, and they could be raised to stick together, fight, and focus on performance. Today, these children cannot play sports, although they are talented, a good part of sports is particularly talented. We don't talk about that. We're talking about people showing up with a baton, and we're gonna be okay. There won't be any order. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik Group, will take the floor. Here you go. [[16.10]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the words of my fellow Member Hajdu, although I do not want to argue with him for the world, but the problem is that my memory may be too far back, it may be a professional hazard, because I am a history teacher, but let us say that these problems have not started in the last ten years! Let me bring you two shameful stories that happened in 2008! One was when an athlete, K. Rajmund, beat his classmate to death on the open street, and then in 2008, two of his classmates beat Joco to death from 10/B in Kaposvár, an elite high school. So if we're gonna point out here that the last ten years or the eight years before that, I think we're just gonna go off the rails again, and we're not gonna understand any of this. Maintenance of schools. Perhaps just in 2008, yes, the Green Paper on education and its situation was published, and it was precisely one of the main demands that education should come into the hands of the government from the municipal reserve, so that the huge gap that was observed in many places could be settled in some way. This failed, but it is clearly the crime of the current government, but the problem is a little more complex. My fellow Member Horváth spoke of respect. Yes, unfortunately, the times passed when, for example, István Nagyatádi Szabó, who emerged from his village and became a minister, compared to his former teacher and teacher when he returned to Csokonyavisonta to welcome him to my master's salutation. Those were indeed times like these. We are faced with huge social problems, these should be solved, and whose responsibility this is, again, I can say that the wreckage social collapse that has brought millions and millions of people under it is not only the result of the eight years before that, but also of the change of regime or even the previous period. The fact that this neoliberal shock therapy, which, to date, is still in many cases six and can be observed, has put entire social groups in a state from which to fight, from which it will be very, very difficult to integrate, I think it stands. There are good practices, by the way. I spoke about these good practices last week, because, driven by pedagogical optimism, I believe that in many cases, even in hopeless situations, there is some constructive solution. My fellow Member Horváth said on this bill that he thinks that we are at the beginning of the road. Well, I'd like to refine it so much that I think it's on the brink, at least in this regard. Where to, one more step forward and into the ravine, and then there'll be something at the bottom, or there'll be a back face, and from what happened there for the last ten years, the eight years before or just since the change of regime, that's another question. However, it is certain that this will be a very, very long process. No one thinks that saving these communities is gonna work out in a magical way from now on to tomorrow. That's not gonna happen. Perhaps one of the pitfalls of these good practices is that they demand tremendous energy, a huge investment in work from teachers. Last Thursday, I gave a positive example of the school model in Heyökkeresztúr, a typical Borsodi ghetto village with a lot of disadvantaged and gypsy children. However, the school is successful, there are no discipline problems, there are no over-age students, and despite the fact that two thirds of the student community are disadvantaged and have a cumulative disadvantage, a significant majority of them study in an institution that also provides graduation. So this is a success story, a good practice that should be adapted, and support the home school system in everything so that they can take over. The fact is, this support in many cases, by the way, is perceived to be clumsy. But there are other good practices. But here I have to ask again why they got their heads in the last or the last minute. Yes, there is a technical methodology development coordinated by the MTA. But why now? You obviously saw it in 2010, when you took over the steering column here, just for example from 2008, let me point out that there are huge problems in the school. If you saw this then, and you had to see it, because if you didn't see it, it's also a huge sin, you should have started developing the right strategy. Now it has started better later than never, and then I could say that there is an experience school programme with the participation of Eszterházy Károly University and six other universities, in fact, under the leadership of László Révész. This is all a positive initiative that the Hungarian State should not only support by a hundred percent, but also by a thousand percent, so that the problems and huge problems that we are now not sure how many hours we have been talking about, arguing, are resolved. Yes, this differentiated development in heterogeneous study groups may be able to perform miracles, but it requires tremendous investment in teaching, educating energy and work. Can we really expect this at general level, at national level, from the 150,000 teachers working in public education at 8,000 places of responsibility, to comply with this, in these circumstances? We can say yes, and we can say that you should be common-use ubermensch, some kind of public-use supermen, and, yeah, do that, it's just that it's not gonna work. That is why they should be supported much more strongly, and indeed, there should be, where appropriate, a recreational period, better wages after many years of work, so that the educator really doesn't get to work frustratedly and be someone blessed with positive energies and radiation that his students can really look up to. But I have to say yes, and that is why we support this bill, because there is a point where we get to the edge of the abyss, and it doesn't lead us anywhere to point fingers here, either you or you, or I don't know who was to blame here, or Jobbik, when he marched on Gyöngyöspata in 2011. That won't solve the problem. The problem will be solved by a very urgent approach. And how? Then another good practice: Kazincbarcika, the Don Bosco school, is also a vocational school, which actually turned into a pedagogical retreat to turn a gladiator school into a place where it is good to study. The director, Béla Molnár-Gál, who is an emblematic figure of the positive changes that take place there, said himself, when he first set foot there, the students said something like this, that he needed a viper or boxer. Well, it couldn't have been an easy school. But I did, and I think it's a good thing that the state is now providing support for this. I'm saying, so, Mr. Secretary, if you feel any criticism in this way, if you hear what I'm saying, then don't just be one of those, it's a lot. This should be the general Hungary, and make every effort to ensure that this is not an island-like positive initiative, but that it becomes the model to be followed, and that it should be the highlight if it is not in such a spirit, let us say, the teaching of these students who are in a cumulative disadvantage and who are affected by such difficulties! I'm saying we'll be able to calm down a little bit by then. We also need to see that there are indeed communities, families where violence is the god, where there is no other place where the child is socialized. After all, what can be said when a 92-year-old woman was killed in Oz Hétes, who didn't hurt a fly, and among the murderers was an 11-year-old child? ! Shouldn't we bring up the family's responsibility? ! No, the hell you don't. I'm sure I'll bring it up. So as long as I'm here, I'm pretty sure I'm going to talk about the terrible responsibility of the family in raising this child or not paying any attention to what it becomes and what it does. That is why we will also support those points in the proposal, beyond the school guard, which are about to be said: the family has a responsibility. LXXXIV of 1998 on support for families. by law, the child who committed the crime, if he is convicted legally but not sentenced to imprisonment, may be deprived of school support for 12 months. Yeah, they're gonna take it. The child is not an animal, but a responsibility, then again I would refer to Attila Lakatos, the Gypsy Butterfly of Borsodi, without any color on the origin of that child. This should be written down for all who have children, who raise children: the child is not an animal, but a responsibility! The second is that if a juvenile offence is committed, an offence is committed, the cost of the crime is charged to the adult care provider, the bill is 9. Article 4a of the Act on Criminal Procedure, which is intended to amend the Act on Criminal Procedure 2017. [[16.20]] We will support it, standing on the ground of normality, yes, because there are unquestioned norms that must be accepted, cannot be disputed. Now, we can argue about a lot of things between us, it's a legitimate thing, but it's an unquestionable sacrament that we don't break into school with families, and we don't beat the teacher brains out there, and then we do it. There's no need to argue about it. It's normal. Mr Secretary of State, you have mentioned a lot of positive things in your introduction in the form of promises, and projects that are already under way, for example, with regard to teacher training, because I myself am a fan of assertive communication, that these conflicts should really be resolved in a constructive way. I don't believe in herbartian pedagogy either. I believe that there are alternative methods that can work very well in these special situations. So, Secretary of State referred to these reforms, positive initiatives. Then I can only say this, as when Széchenyi was approached by the serfs of Pölöskei, and they took the Credit with them to make them wish to feel the golden words that Széchenyi described, because they were involved in a trial. So, the changes you've been telling me are to be supported by us. However, we do want to feel these things in action, and not just touch a small minority of the 150,000 teachers society, but do whatever it takes to ensure that these courses and training courses are available to as many teachers as possible, because I think we will not solve these problems without them. One more question. I asked you last week how the school guards would go to these schools. The school also has to fill out a commitment statement and hand it over. This has already been asked by several fellow Members how this will work or how the selection mechanism itself has worked for these institutions, 350 primary schools and 140-150 vocational schools. We're really curious about that, we'd like to know.
u2020-06-09-128	One more time at the end. My fellow Member Mellar was talking about poverty. I would not so much like to highlight the problem by saying that it is not a question of ethnicity and poverty, but a cultural issue: a culture of outsiders. And if, say, in school, these young bush fighters carrying the culture of optout make learning difficult and impossible, then the children of the normal gypsy parents and the Swabians and Slovaks and everyone else will escape from there. So I'm here to talk about a culture of outsiders. Yes, it must be accepted, and this is the alpha and omega of everything in this regard, that everyone must accept the mandatory standards of coexistence, and that is a point. Poverty can't be an excuse for anything, especially as long as there's only one poor person in this country who, despite all the difficulties, has done what he has done with honor. I could give many, many of these positive examples of my own environment, thanks to God, I look at them, and I ask you to look at them; those who want to catch up, who want to learn, give them all the help that they don't, so have they. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, independent. Here you go. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Our fellow Member László Horváth spoke of honesty and listed what Gypsy children in Gypsy Gypsies in Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy Gypsy have received from the government in the last ten years, free textbooks, free meals, renovated kindergartens, renovated schools. I would ask you what the children, the Hungarian children who still have to go to another settlement, have received. What did they get? It means that to date, every day after your ten-year-long two-thirds government, you have to go to another settlement. This is unacceptable, honourable Member. They've been ruling by two thirds for ten years, and do you know how digital education was carried out in Gyöngyöspata? The worksheets distributed by teachers on paper will be returned to a potato box placed in front of a school. I'm not kidding, they're putting back paper-based tasks in a potato box, and they're even returning them. When I was on Gyöngyöspata a few weeks ago, it was 11 a.m. when I visited the Gypsy line. I didn't hear any children, I didn't see any children who were just studying. On the other hand, the street was full of kids. As a mother of four, I was very envious. I admit, I haven't been able to do it in the last two or three months when my kids were at home, even though there are only two kids at school, I'd be able to let everyone out by 11:00 a.m., because we're done with all the work that the teachers have sent. That's his approach to learning, unfortunately, for these children. No wonder this results in spontaneous segregation. I would also like to answer to Congressman László Hajdu here. Don't let the families who take their children away from this environment be to blame, so we don't take them out. In fact, if we lived in a normal country, Gyöngyöspata would be entitled to compensation for the Hungarian families who had to take their children from there. They are the ones who get up every day, take their children to school in another settlement, go to work, then also go to another settlement after work to pick up their children from school and take them home, because in this village, the state was unable to maintain a school in which these children could have been safely and normally managed by their parents. It's that simple. We still operate a school system, and there are laws in Hungary after ten years of Fidesz governance that allow compensation for those who had to leave their hometown for these children. This is something absolutely astonishing and absolutely amazing injustice! It wouldn't be for those who caused the problem, it would be, as I said, sitting on the other side of the horse.
u2020-06-09-130	We can read about the demographic dimension of all of this in the book of the Constitutional Judge Béla Hell, who wrote what is characteristic of the discourse that, unfortunately, conceals reality. He wrote the following on immigration and on the issue of Gypsy in Hungary:. These problems have been felt by the broad masses for several years in everyday life, but the dominant media and opinion-forming intellectual circles, just as in Hungary the Roma issue was banned from their sincere discussion and accused of racism by those who dared to raise them. However, the underlying, growing problems erupted explosively around the turn of the millennium. This is also the case with regard to school violence. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-131	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Szabó Szabolcs, an independent congressman. Here you go. Two minutes. Thank you very much. Now I'm trying to be like a good educator: I'm trying to tell you again what the delicacies didn't understand in the first round. What's wrong with your example of CPR? He says we're not going through the red light. But is there a policeman by the red light? No. 'Cause how does it work, right? In kindergarten, in school, teachers, teachers, kindergarten ladies, and at home, parents, as they have repeatedly referred to here, teach us this, so we know we're not going through the red light. There's always a few remorseful ones, and when they're caught, they'll be punished. But basically, the reason we don't go through red is because we know we shouldn't go through red because they taught us to. That's the logic of it all. You have to teach it, you have to think about it. If someone goes through a red light, it doesn't help if I punish him because he doesn't understand, but he needs to be taught why he shouldn't go through a red light. [[16.30]] Allow me, Mr President, to say that it is, to say the least, rude to the independent Hungarian court, and I was indeed very euphemistical, so it is not polite to say that in the final judgment of the court, the independent Hungarian court said that it rewards those who use violence, because that is not what the lawsuit was about. This trial was about finding a personality violation and imposing an injury charge. That is what the lawsuit was about, so that we should not distort the verdict of the independent Hungarian court. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Oh, and just a little note to Dora Doro. It was obviously a speech, only if the Pearl Patans were to watch the debate, Gyöngyöspata town, so that it wouldn't be a problem. Mr. Congressman, I'm sure you can tell me when you've become a city.
u2020-06-09-132	Well, maybe seven or eight years ago, sort of like this, so, town.
u2020-06-09-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Horváth, Fidesz Group. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor. Perhaps the most important thing about this whole issue, I would just add to Dóra Dúró that this lawsuit is just not considered fair and real by the government, and this case was not vindicated by the government, but by an organization which, with the promise of this easy money, organised and conducted the whole process. But the point is, I think that we can achieve a breakthrough in this area with an honest, clear speech and a clear definition of conditions and a clear set of rules, once we get to the point of how we can arouse the intention of the affected families, because if someone wants to catch up, then it takes two things: intention and ability. But if we only want to develop the ability... and often this failure of catching up programs and integration programs, and that is why we are failing, because we only want to develop the ability while there is no intention.
u2020-06-09-134	Intention is the pedestal upon which the necessary and capable abilities can be built. You can help those who want to catch up. And it is indeed very true how we can get to what Balázs Ander said, that these families look at the child differently and look at the school differently. And it's really an inner movement, an inner conviction, a realization, and the resulting inner purpose. That's what we need to find together. Thank you very much. [[There's no such signal.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[For signal:]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer the debate...
u2020-06-09-135	Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I thank everyone very much for the good professional debate, because I think Members have shown that this is a matter in which we have heard a very substantive and very constructive debate. I am also very pleased, and I would like to say that on the responsibility of the family, which was introduced into the legal system some 40 years ago, in this very House, everyone has agreed and it is good to see that we also have full agreement on this. I would like to thank Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Mr László Horváth, for his consensual and supportive contributions. I would also like to thank Mr Horváth for the work he has done in close cooperation in recent months. I would particularly like to highlight the constructive contribution of Mr Ander Balázs and his supporting contribution that their group will support the bill. This is very important to us, too. The whole presentation, I think, reflected a very professional approach and was a good example of the professional debates that have taken place here. Although the government's action in a number of cases was deemed to be delayed. I would like to underline this, that we have not been idle in recent years, and, as I said in my introduction, a number of measures are constantly dating from 2010 even for the last few years. The commitments that I have indicated that, although they are not the subject of the bill, but we are doing so, we will, of course, keep our word. He and others asked about the selection of the institutions. For the time being, the government has made a decision on the scale of principle, on how many institutions we can think about, on what budgetary background we can think about in accurate surveys, on the exact location designation. We have asked the maintenance staff, the vocational training centers, the study districts, the head of the institution in this case, and it is currently taking place that the Ministry of Interior is also commenting on this list on the basis of various police data. I would like to note that we do not have a 500 item list decided for the time being. It's not written in stone, anyway, it's supposed to be exactly 500. It could be less and more. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 9 June 2020 137/2. Number Parliamentary Diary And since it has come up elsewhere, I would like to point out here that we are starting the introduction of this programme in a public institutional circle. Of course, if there is a request from a church or private institution that he would otherwise like to participate in the program, requires the school warden, then, of course, the possibility of doing so will be open. So the law doesn't limit the fact that it's only in the state circle, but we wanted to avoid that field, by the way, that the government will send you anywhere, otherwise it's not about institutions with own reservations. So the selection process has not yet been completed, as I said in the introductory speech, we are not sending a schoolkeeper to an institution that they would not otherwise welcome, and they would not trust to contribute in some way to reducing intra-school violence. Mr Gergely Arató, although at the beginning he expressed his agreement on several points, and he even said that he was grateful for the bill, because in this way we have the opportunity to have a good debate, and we are glad that we have done so, but he claims that this is a capitulation, we will raise our hands, and that in some places this will eliminate pedagogical methods and their application. I'm telling you, our approach is not that. The school warden comes to the institutions on a complementary basis, comes to help, has added value and may, but, of course, all schools continue their pedagogical programs, so in this, I think we have a different posture. He also made codification comments on how to do what should be done. With our lawyers, we are very happy to have a debate on what is worth or should not be inserted. I think, if you have any codification clarification suggestions, we would be very happy to have them. Submit it, and with the involvement of the Ministry of Justice, we are pleased to examine that these are merely technical matters. We do not think that these are justified, however, there is, of course, another way to approach these questions. [[Gergely Harvestó: I was at a committee meeting.]] He also stated in his comment that we should provide resources to family supporters or school psychologists. I would like to say here that, if I remember correctly the beginning of the meeting, you were not at the part of the meeting when I held my introduction. He was at a committee meeting. This is, of course, to be appreciated, and I did not express it as a criticism, but let us make it factually clear that it was not here when I said the relevant points, and I indicated that, of course, these resources were there. As of 1 September 2018, it is mandatory, and the legislation has sorted out the extent to which the presence of this particular circle is mandatory in schools, i.e. the scope of social assistance. [[Interventions on the opposition side, including: More...]] I did smile at Mrs Krisztina Hohn's comment once, but only when there was a slip of the word, and when she used the term chemical weapon instead of the chemical device, that the school warden would use a chemical weapon. I'd like to improve the fact that, of course, the school warden doesn't use a chemical weapon... It won't happen in the future, I'm pretty sure of that. [[16.40]] And I would like to suggest to the LMP faction that if the only thing that really keeps you from supporting this proposal is how terrible it sounds reading the stick and the handcuffs, then I think we should put it in its place now that today, right now, if there is a violent event at school, there are two ways of intervention. The educator can't move much in this, as he plays with his job, and the educator can't use violence in any way. Then who's staying? The doorman stays. There remains a janitor, who is neither prepared for this, nor has the authority, nor any equipment, but he can obviously intervene with good intentions in order to separate two children, or, say, a student and an educator. I don't think it's a professional measure, but obviously a doorman can join the slap line. Do we think that's right? I think we don't think it's right. And plan B is to tell the police, who, let alone with a baton, not with a chemical device, comes into the institution with a weapon and intervenes. I think that if we look at this proposal from this approach, it is not from the devil that there should be professional, trained personnel who, by the way, do not take or take part in, or deal with, conflicts of this kind. From this point of view and reading, I think it is worth considering, and if that is all it took, then support the proposal. Congressman Tamás Mellar, I would like to join the observation that there has been violence in school for 50 years. I also think, which was very different, that the social echo of this was close to zero, because the contemporary press, the contemporary Facebook, which obviously didn't exist, didn't give any news about it, and didn't run through the news stream of it in the world as it did today. He also indicated, at least it was readable from the social policy background analysis, which I followed with great interest, since you are a scientist and, accordingly, such thought guides should be followed, and should be followed with such an eye... the conclusion that this was drawn from this conclusion that the school warden might be able to strengthen ghettoism or the division of society, I do not think it would be so. This government has a clear vision of social policy and family policy, it thinks in a nation, and I believe that it is working to raise everyone. It is possible to argue and sometimes the opposition disputes that this is the case, but on behalf of myself and others, with whom we are working in the government, I think that our posture is no different from the vision and the vision of raising everyone that the Member has mentioned. That's why I don't think the school warden has such a negative impact. The reason why we focus on these places of responsibility is that we would like to introduce such an additional instrument in maintaining the order there, in addition to a number of other measures, so that everyone can learn there, including those who may be hindered by only a few rapists. As Dóra Dúró said, their rights must also be taken into account, the right to study must be guaranteed for everyone, but also for those who will not be able to do so, they have the opportunity to act violently. I trust they will also turn to study. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm spoke of a society of disrespect. Indeed, in this area, last week, I told you today, not in this direction, and not in the right direction, not just in us, but in the whole Western or perhaps in the whole global world. However, obviously, the government cannot be accused of not expressing messages in this direction in terms of the honor of work, the importance of knowledge. He said it, and I think it's a misunderstanding that we're taking school guards to all state institutions. It is important to note that this is not the case, of course, and that we have talked about this before, and that it will also be available to other maintenance staff during the later period. For the time being, the government has only a decision in principle of 500 people, so there are no eight thousand people involved, and of course, it is not just a police officer and not just an ex-police officer, although obviously, if you have this kind of experience, you can enjoy and enjoy it. The aim, however, and I think it is important to record this, which is highlighted by security and not by the school guard. So, if the Member's decision counts as a consideration that we are willing to consider this a transitional measure, then, of course, there will be no need for a school guard if violence in school is stopped, and, of course, if there are improving trends due to many other interventions and social development, then there will be no need for this measure. At present, we believe that there are locations, and this has been recognised by several speakers, where this can bring added value and help. In the introduction of Mrs Dóra Dúró, she said that we disappointed her with this proposal, and then she also said that some of the proposals had already been made earlier. We are trying not to disappoint you, and at least now we are trying to bring these older proposals to victory in this House. You have made more radical suggestions. I think that these measures, which we have tabled, are sufficient and appropriate, and we would therefore not go any further. On the other hand, we fully agree that the rights of non-violent children must also be guaranteed; as well as that the compensation which is judged is a specifically disputed point of the government's judgment. I can honestly say that that is why we were very much looking forward to the Curia's decision to argue and decide only on a legal basis, as it did on the other hand, since the Curia did not agree with the issue of injustice and injustice, but, in essence, took a repulsive decision where it merely referred to a legal background, which led it out of the regulation that it did not have the power to make any other kind of judgment, leaving the responsibility clearly on the regulator. That is why we are living with the change in regulation in this area. So we do not dispute, of course, the court's decision, but we may have an opinion on it. I think it's also the right of a governing force to do so. We quickly informed colleagues about the further training of the National Crime Prevention Council. There's not ten times over-booking for these trainings, but it happens when there is. There's more people coming up, I'd rather put it like that than there are places. These training courses are organised by the Ministry of the Interior. This training takes place in their organization, within their framework. We will discuss with them how we can support a wider supply in this area as well. I would also like to thank Congressman Attila Mesterházy for his contribution. He said whether this is the end of the road or not. I share the opinion already expressed that we are not at the end of the same path, but we are introducing a measure that will lead to a wider scope of action in the right locations than in the past, otherwise in order to maintain school order. In the field of statistics, we are having a very difficult time, because the definition of school violence, the background to what we should consider at all, and what kind of assessment it has, is not like a precise record of broken bones or accidents, which will otherwise be reported to the Education Office. There may be many harassment cases that do not meet the threshold to be reported or disciplined. But that perception, by the way, I think it marked all the speakers that we can talk about a growing process. We cannot have accurate statistics because, as I have just said, we are talking about an essentially very difficult to assess, especially in the area of violence between students, which is very difficult to assess. The proposals of the National Pedagogist Faculty have, of course, been received by us, and we know them, and we will discuss this with them. Basically, the law will only knock down a few corners or create this law enforcement organization, but, as has already been said, regulations will be made, as well as maintenance procedures, cooperation agreements, with which a significant part of the proposals of the National Pedagogical Faculty will be manageable and we ourselves believe so. Obviously, as I have already said, that the institution should not be without them, it has been achieved, and we do not think otherwise. [[16.50]] The fact that the contract is given to the person concerned for a fixed or indefinite period is a matter of labour law, but it is obviously more difficult to build a stock if someone knows that he will have a ten-month fixed-term contract. However, we maintain it, and so did the Faculty of Pedagogism, which meant that if an institution finds out that the measure is successful, there is no need for the school guardian, then, of course, it will not be worth maintaining this measure, so that we can direct the colleague concerned to another institution where it is needed and needed and where it can operate more effectively. So the kind of non-everlasting character indicated by the Faculty of Pedagogism can, of course, be realized. We also agree that the school warden can only eliminate the threat, so he can take action, but it is not his job to have a further role in the future, let us say, in disciplinary proceedings. It has and must have a basically protective intervention function. In the same way, I think that the head of the institution should have the possibility of giving partial instructions to the schoolmaster, because, for example, because he carries out his activities there, therefore, mutatis mutandis, let us say, there are a number of rules on labour law that could, as appropriate, be passed by the school principal in drawing up the detailed rules. We agree that the problem alone will not be solved by the school warden, but, as I said in my introduction, we do not think that this is a measure on its own. He even mentioned that the abuse might be possible if it were possible. This applies, of course, to all employees. We pay attention to it and try to prepare it so that it doesn't happen, but unfortunately, at the moment, it is also the doorman's case if he takes the wrong action and is currently interfering with such a, say, school violence event. We hope that the preparation of the school guards, which will spread not only to the short period of August, but also to the continuous completion of the positions, will be based on experience, so that they know what they are doing and in what cases they are needed. Mr Szabolcs Szabó has said many times that it will have a good effect or not. I've heard so many times about something so many times, I'm sure it won't have any effect. Of course, I respect the Member's opinion; we trust that it will have a positive effect. We will be in a lucky position to see this in the next few years, and we will be happy to stand up for critical questions, if you will certainly ask such questions. What you were talking about, and I remember you weren't here at the introduction, either, to see the role of the school psychologist, as a family supporter. We're seeing it the same way. In the introduction, I explained how the figures have changed in recent years, how we have expanded the resources for this. You said it was resources, people, and the rest, and the rest of it, that we were doing exactly this job. I would also like to respond to Mr László Hajdu, but I would just like to say the same thing I said in relation to Krisztina Hohn's contribution. The school warden is not unique, it is part of a complex program, and the violent intervention, I would stress it here, is not the only thing we expect to see now suddenly with handcuffs and batons in order. As I said, either the doorman or the policeman at the moment is the one who takes care of the two, the school guard who will not be armed, but with nothing in his hand, will be empowered and prepared to assist in schools, by the way. So what I would like to ask you specifically, and I will not tell you a secret, is that, obviously, in this government communication, we will show this more strongly, by sensing that it may be going in this direction a little bit. Here I read the announcements that were published during the meeting, in several places these handcuffs, the baton were the determining factor, but compared to which handcuffs, batons, as I have already said, today the policeman is going in armed when called for some kind of violent act. So let's try to do this the other way around and treat it in its place. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-136	I have tried to respond to every comment, and I am no longer involved in the discussions between the various fractions of the horseshoe. I hope that I have given you additional information and input to make decisions that can support either the submission of amendments or the decision of individual factions or Members. We are also available in the future. I am asking you to support this proposal. We trust and believe that this measure will help the given locations, which is the absolute minority of the places of responsibility, but it will help the school maintain order at these places, so that the school can really be the only place of education. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1994 LXVI on the Wage Guarantee Fund. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation by Members Lajos Kósa, Fidesz, and László Böröcz, Fidesz T/10859. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-137	First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, My proposal is quite simple, it is that if a person, as a member of a pensioner-cooperative or a pensioner-cooperative, performs his/her own work, but for some reason the customer cannot pay the most atypical case here is bankruptcy, liquidation or some such procedure, in which case the salary guarantee fund may pay compensation to the employees who have completed the work. When the law on pensioners' cooperatives was passed by Parliament, I indicated in the debate that this was actually a new, alternative, undisputed, atypical form of employment in a model similar to student cooperatives. In Hungarian, it is about people saying that they want to work in addition to their pensions, but they no longer want to do 5 days a week, 8 hours a day on the basis of the Labour Code, where there is a work and performance obligation, and for the employer it is an obligation to work, but in a more relaxed, freer, two days a week, one day a day a week, if the move comes out, it is possible to exchange the performance of the work with the members of the cooperative, so they can work in such a more relaxed form. This partly helps certain sectors where such work is typically needed and, on the other hand, helps pensioners remain active. But I also indicated that, since this is an atypical form, as we can see how life or economic conditions change, it is, of course, possible that regulation should be touched. Roughly over 200 pensioners have been set up, and there are roughly over 20,000 people working there who have already done some kind of activity as a member. It is typically not typical for pensioners to have a payment problem in contracts concluded by pensioners' cooperatives. The main reason for this is that, contrary to the application under the Labour Code, it is a business contract between the cooperative and the company giving the work, and these business contracts are the easiest to terminate. There is no complex and other set of rules here, such as the Labour Code or typical forms of employment, conciliation obligations, any other requirement, and therefore employers and businesses do not usually take it in life to the point that there is obviously some kind of bankruptcy or liquidation situation, but they still have not given up this business contract. By the way, this attitude is pointless. So it is typically not typical that this should be used. At the same time, I believe that the presence of atypical forms of employment in the Hungarian labour market, and the strengthening of these, the emancipation of these forms, can provide a kind of gesture to enable pensioners to enter the Wage Guarantee Fund in case of problems. Of course, everyone knows that if the work is done and it is not paid, the pensioner can also benefit from the fact that this can be achieved from the Wage Guarantee Fund. So this is a gesture, a kind of security for working in retirement cooperatives. I ask you to support the proposal, it is a nice gesture for pensioners who are still active and working. Of course, my proposal does not affect pensioners who work in the framework of so-called pensioner further employment, since they are not part of this system of rules, but in employment under the Labour Code, where the wage guarantee is, of course, already a gift and guarantee. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2020-06-09-138	Thank you very much for your support for this proposal, Honourable House.
u2020-06-09-139	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Dear House, Indeed, in recent weeks and months, we have seen how much change can happen in our lives in just a few hours and in a few days, which we thought could be burdened with minimal changes. Life has put us in a difficult situation, both as employers and as employees, and it also draws attention to other important details that may have been overlooked so far. The experience is still very recent when, a few months ago, we had countless conversations with employers and employees about how and how to find labour market reserves, what new and new offers should be made for all those who are inactive, how and how to invite mothers to work, how to plan for pensioners to be able to make themselves and obviously for the welfare of the nation, in addition to well-deserved rest. So, this was the world that has really turned very significantly in a few days, and given the health situation, it is perhaps the most serious thing that has been the wind of change, but the changes in the labour market have also been very close to following this. The health emergency will pass, and we hope that it will never come back, but there is always room for caution, and changes in the labour market will return to normal much slower. However, it can be seen that all the government measures that we are talking about, I have to say, a lot of employers, a lot of workers, are really very helpful: job protection pay support, job creation subsidies, tax, contributions, and could continue the line. When you think about it, the most important rule, the most important motivation, is absolutely clear: for the work that has been done, everyone will be paid the wages they deserve, and if this basic rule is in order, the working conditions are right, then I believe that we are also on the right path to recovery. Dear House, The institution of the wage guarantee protects employees, temporary agency workers and employees of school cooperatives in the event of insolvency of companies. We understand, we know, that this intention was also completely understandable from the presentation of the Member, that we must spread this circle, expand it, and think about all those who may be active in the union of pensioners. The obligation of the liquidator in the previous three sectors, in three groups, is quite clear: the intention, as I said, is clear: to pay the wages due to workers, this should have a guarantee. In Hungary, the wage guarantee subsidy may be advanced from the Wage Guarantee Fund to the unbalanced wage debt of entities in liquidation or forced cancellation proceedings against the employee, which is also guaranteed by law. An insolvent economic undertaking subject to winding-up proceedings, which has an unpaid wage debt against its employee, may also benefit from the aid to be recovered from the Wage Guarantee Fund. It is therefore quite clear at present that the debts owed to the employee may be covered by unpaid wage debt, by the loan fee not paid to the temporary agency worker or by the service fee not paid to the school cooperative. The amendment in the bill is therefore intended to extend this range of persons. On the basis of the proposed amendment of the Wage Guarantee Act, in addition to employees, the legislation can also provide a guarantee to pay the wages of employees in the context of the service provided by the pensioners' cooperative. The government regulated the payment of the minimum service fee in this case in a government regulation on minimum service fees for school cooperatives and pensioners cooperatives of general interest adopted in 2017 to ensure equal opportunities for labour market players. The aim of the regulation was, therefore, not to remedy a crisis three years ago, since that was not the economic situation at the time, but to remove the tax avoidance that was a problem at that time, which is also important. The present proposal therefore acts in a direction that is in line with the government's employment policy, which is also quite clear from the previous ideas. Dear House, In my view, the proposal is important because it intends to introduce a guarantee rule in support of the interests of a vulnerable sector of employment. Therefore, the wage guarantee procedure will also be applicable to the service fee of the entity in liquidation that is not paid to the pensioner cooperative if it receives aid. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-140	For this reason, the Government supports the amendment of the law on the rules of the Wage Guarantee Fund. Dear Parliament, I ask you to do the same in order to protect the workings of pensioners' cooperatives and thus the wages of persons employed in such organisational structures. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/10859 in front of you. LXVI of 1994 on the Wage Guarantee Fund. The draft law amending the Act aims to extend the rule on school cooperatives to pensioners' cooperatives of general interest. In this way, it would be possible to advance the amount set by law from the service fee not paid to the pensioner cooperative in the context of the wage guarantee procedure to the entity in liquidation. This intention does not require any significant resources. Dear House, The Wage Guarantee Support is, as is known, the 1994 LXVI on the Wage Guarantee Fund. interest-free aid to be granted under law. This aid is intended to advance the statutory part of the service fee not paid to the school cooperative in respect of the service provided by it. The wage guarantee support may be advanced to the insurmountable wage debt vis-à-vis the employee by the entities in liquidation. The Btv. It also provides that, in the event that there is insufficient cover for the payment of the salary receivable on the termination of the winding-up proceedings for workers who are protected by notice of termination, the liquidator shall, without the employee's special application, require the national employment fund's payment of the salary guarantee fund before the winding-up balance is drawn up and pay it to the employee concerned. Dear Parliament, With the bill before us, we support pensioners, as pensioners who work in pensioners' cooperatives receive a wage guarantee. Since 2010, the government has done everything in its power to express its appreciation for the elderly not only at the level of legislation, but also in terms of words, but also in terms of concrete measures in their interests; this has not happened differently in times of emergency or even after it has ceased. [[Gergely Arató: We have introduced the 13th month pension!]] The continued concern of the left about pensioners is very surprising given the fact that socialist government has decided on a number of measures that have been a major blow to the elderly. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.10]]
u2020-06-09-142	The bill tabled by our fellow Member Lajos Kósa and László Böröcz sets out an effort to support it, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal submitted, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go. Mr President, Dear House, Let me tell you so many workshops that we, however, have exchanged a few words here with the Secretary of State, which said that if a proposal is basically a good thing, it is not worth getting involved in the basic details of it, and I think that is the right thing to do. Any responsible Member in Parliament, even if he sees a proposal from an irritating political opponent, must support it if it is in the interests of his nation, his country, and I think it should work against vice. I very much hope that there will be positive examples of this in the budgetary debate. At the same time, I must say that if this proposal is in itself about the fact that we are not forced to work, but that we are making it easier for our retired compatriots who wish to work, by saying that if an unwanted winding-up procedure or any other external event would put their income at risk, then we will replace it from a common fund, I think that every sane person is saying that this is a direction to be supported. So there's no debate between us. If that is what this proposal is all about, then I say that we can reach a relatively rapid agreement on this issue. It has been said here that there is no need to transfer this proposal to a more serious source. And I hope that if you're helping people in trouble, you're gonna need it, because it shows that the proposal is meaningful, and it can affect a lot of people. Obviously, what I'm interested in is that in the case of people in trouble, the rate of aid should be 100 percent, and the quality and quantity of it will meet the needs of the age. We have looked at the proposal a little slantly, as the wage guarantee has been given to those arriving through temporary agency companies for about half a decade, so it might have been more fortunate to extend it at the moment of conception, but it would have obviously been better if the sentences from the beginning had a braked foaming or limited effectiveness in political life. At the same time, I find it quite amazing that in many cases anyone in Hungary is making a success contribution to the vulnerable situation of our retired countrymen. I believe that if we want to bring benefits to our retired countrymen, it should and should be done within the pension system, and that situations should be prevented so that more people are forced to work, whether in a pensioner's cooperative or in a different form, so that they may want to live their retirement lives. There are a lot of pressure situations like this. I hope that an effective alternative form of employment will be able to expand in Hungary, but I do not want it to be forced to affect many pensioners, to touch those who wish to remain part of the labour market by making their own choices and choices. I've met a lot of our countrymen who have to be forced to stay in this market. And how can this unworthy situation be prevented? For example, by transforming the pension system's sane lifting system, which we, our faction, used to refer to as a differentiated pension increase. The essence of this would be that a 2.5 percent pension increase at the moment represents a minimum, negligible amount for a small pensioner, but it is called a significant increase for our fellow citizens who are taking up luxury pensions. Therefore, if we split this system into three sections on the basis of the amount of pensions paid, it would be clear that, in the case of pensions over 400 thousand, we would not be sure that the increase could be justified to this extent, but, in the case of small pensioners, an increase of not 3 but even 9 percent would be justified, and we need to examine how it could be paid. And obviously, the value of pensions called averages cannot be considered as outstanding either in terms of the region's values or in terms of the composition of the products that can be purchased. Therefore, the system of pension increases should be adapted in such a way that they are sustainable, so that they do not need the help of other sub-schemes, and they should also be able to make as little as possible on the labour market as necessary. And speaking of employment legislation, it is not possible to go along with calling the situation of any Hungarian worker easier in recent years if we look at the labour code or the general employment rules. I do not want to generate an inexpensive policy debate, and I could recall Prime Minister's statements in Saudi Arabia, where, in addition to the involvement of working capital, he argued that the Hungarian labour force's fee, if allowed to be so nasty, was sufficiently low, he said so and that the labour code was sufficiently flexible in his view. Since then, the situation has deteriorated further, it can be called slave law 1.0, 2.0, it can be called an overwork law, so a wide range of indicators can be seized, but we can see that workers who have previously been protected by certain types of warranty elements can be worked to the point of nosebleeds. And I also see that, obviously, the Code of Work applies only to our retired, working fellow citizens who have continued to work, and it is not necessarily just an alternative form of employment before us, but, at systemic level, these excesses must be removed in order to talk about the improvement of the living conditions of our retired countrymen.
u2020-06-09-144	So I'm hoarding the government to look at the typical life situations of this age group, to see if, where appropriate, not only children, but the possibility of raising grandchildren that is now available is really available for a wide range of people. Consider that the system of pension increases I have been talking about for the past 30 years, make no mistake, it is not only sustainable and fair about your governance. I say that a differentiated pension increase would be fairer, and I also say that the sustainability leg should be continuously examined, as the Hungarian National Bank is investigating, and as it has shown on several occasions in its annual reports, how long it believes that the pension system can be maintained. So let us not save these debates. In addition to supporting the cementation of one leg of an alternative form of employment, systemic criticism and debate would be quite simply irresponsible to save. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill is clear, transparent, short, simple and therefore absolutely eligible. Absolutely eligible. I do not agree with Dániel Z. Kárpát that I think it is a good situation if it does not require a lot of money from the budget, because it means that pensioners have not failed their employees. Of course, if something like this happens, then stand by the budget and it is about the law now, and stand by the Wage Guarantee Fund, but I hope that it will not happen, and not because it does not charge the budget, but because then there will be no companies that fail their own employees, employees, or during liquidation some sort of Himihumi happens, and the money that is due to those pensioners will disappear. I am very sorry that, compared to the speakers who have been registered in advance, in this debate, Mr Lajos Korózs does not come to Parliament and does not participate in this debate; he may be on his way to Baja or he is shooting the next paramedic video, he is performing extraordinary tasks and therefore cannot come to Parliament. It was the parliamentary majority and government of Fidesz-KDNP that settled the situation of employment-type cooperatives, and if we are talking about school cooperatives or student associations, which, like that, are now being introduced in pensioners' cooperatives, Csaba Czeglédy's name is also mentioned, since we are talking about cooperatives here. Ferenc Gyurcsány's friend, the criminal lawyer, and his figure are also mentioned in the background, as we know precisely that there has been an indictment in his case due to the crime of fiscal fraud, the offence of the use of other crimes and false private documents. 21 people were charged, including Human Operator Zrt. Head of Csaba Czeglédy, who was a convicted tax criminal. [[17.20]] I think that the current bill settles the situation of the pensioners' cooperatives, but once had to stand up to the Wage Guarantee Fund and the state had to stand up to the state when the gentleman said he was a gentleman? " Ferenc Gyurcsány's bosom friend and lawyer were suspected of being charged with 21 people. So let us not forget these things, that they were rescued by putting him on the DK European Parliament list to give him immunity, and then the entire opposition started covering for him and did not grant him his immunity. So, if we talk about employment-type cooperatives, we should not forget the way in which DK's domestic lawyer and friend Ferenc Gyurcsány were tried to avoid liability and consequences. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-146	I think that, of course, the content of the bill can be supported. I hope that there will be no more cases like those that have happened there, not in retirement cooperatives or in school cooperatives. Of course, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. I think what my fellow Member has just said was a real experience. I think we will have a division of labour in this, because first I would like to respond to what Congressman Lajos Kósa has started. This is the beauty of the story that, in fact, this bill can be presented as a step in the interests of pensioners that if they are workers, they should not be disadvantaged as employees. But in the meantime, the method or possibility of atypical employment itself is also important in this respect, but Congressman Lajos Kósa has an unquenchable desire to deal with cooperative matters. But they're coming after the student unions, and here are the retirement unions, which are very important to you. Now I think that when you propose to the employers to rescue them, and in fact, if they cannot pay their debts to workers in a situation where you think they are actually working as pensioners because of their moody state, I think that this picture is not worth maintaining here for too long. Not even because someone who has worked 40 or a few years, after that, I think that he should think of a social picture when he doesn't have to work for a living, but who has worked all these years and decades, he should be entitled to a decent pension. They'd be entitled to a decent pension if you didn't lie all over the world, by the way, that preserving real value would benefit pensioners. With all due respect, pensioners don't benefit from this, they're being double-crossed, because, by the way, you're ignoring the increase in inflation resulting from and resulting from wage increases, and by the way, pensioners are experiencing what's wrong with you guys, by the way, that you're screwing them over completely. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But with the same force, they could also do that if you really care so much about the retirement society, then you don't promise to start a hocus pocus next year, something that will be paid for for four years, if you really dare to take on the possibility of a 13th month pension, the way... [[Lajos Kósa: Then why did you eliminate it?]] That's it, that's it. Because for the left, yes, pensioners are an important social class that needs to be dealt with with with respect, honor, and otherwise, yes, that's why... You see, Congressman, the answer is very simple. You haven't been able to take a deep breath for ten years, and next to the 13th month, you've got a 14th month pension that you promised. It was leafleted, you remember that, you promised me that. If all of this is taken into account, then if you really think that pensioners should be dealt with, then not such a bill, let us say, as such, as a step-by-step person, but rather a substantive proposal for the benefit of pensioners. This means that the mixed indexation is taken into account in raising pensions, not being used in amending the budget or planning it to plan inflation below 3 per cent and planning a pension increase below 3 per cent, because both are lies and then they start to make up for pensioners in different ways. Honourable Congressman, They should not be given different checks, i.e. vouchers that are otherwise given to them instead of money, but a decent pension increase, and, in our opinion, those with the smallest pensions should be treated as high priority. This should have been done for you, and as a result, it does not come up with the fact that the pensioners should be concerned with the fact that, yes, I have to work with a pension, because otherwise I cannot give my granddaughter small money, and even give my child the opportunity to pay his rent. So, accordingly, the intention, which is to pay the pensioner, because otherwise, the regulation has been legally corrupted earlier... if this is to be corrected, and it is to their conscience, then do so. I would add that the employment of pensioners' cooperatives is less important today, as since last year, pensioners have been able to work alongside pensions, so it is for them, which you regard as particularly valuable, rather than otherwise working to ensure that pensioners have a decent living, a decent pension by the time they reach that age.
u2020-06-09-148	So to sum up, I understand the law on your conscience, but please consider that you owe the pensioners a lot more than that. You owe me an immediate 13th month pension, you owe me a decent pension, and I might as well say a further one-time help to the smallest pensioners, because they have been abandoned in this time of crisis. They are the ones who are suffering now and are trying to survive how their little reserves will survive in the next period. This law doesn't help. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and independent Members are not taking part in the debate. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK. Here you go. We wouldn't have wanted to mention this here if Congressman Nacsa didn't think it was important for us to remember this. But if so, let us also say a few words about the fact that the idea of a pensioner-cooperative did not come from nothing, but from a very well-defined circle of business, from which Mr Lajos Kósa is not very far away, and of which one of the many public representatives is Mr István Fiák, who was also involved in the construction of pensioners' cooperatives, and who is also a business partner of the Member's family. After all, this raised the kind of suspicion that perhaps not only patriotic emotions and the needs of pensioners are driving this type of pensioner-cooperative model. But I don't want to go into this because pensioners and pensioners alone can't help it, and if they get an atypical form of employment, discounts and adequate security in this regard, then that's fine. But speaking of the Czeglédy case, Mr Nacsa, let me just mention that it was the same Sons who, unfortunately, was quite disoriented from reality when it came to the victims of the Czeglédy case. He was talking about thousands of numbers when it turned out that the victims were less than a hundred. At the same time, it was his initiative and your initiative and the political campaign attached to it that allowed them to have access to their income far later and not from the Wage Guarantee Fund.
u2020-06-09-150	So, I have to say, my fellow Members, that I think it is better to move this matter away from here, because if we start arguing about this, then the original proposal itself, which could otherwise be made on a professional basis, should be taken away from the attention. I suggest that we stick to that and not talk about how you otherwise use the different political and criminal options for business purposes. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-151	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, in two minutes. [[17 .30]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only László Varju, who started a big speech on pension policy, did not take the advice of Mr Arató. It always makes me smile when a pro-Gyurcsány talks about pension reform. Your pension reform was to cancel the 13th month pension. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány stopped it. It's gone. Between 2005 and 2010, pensions lost 10 percent of their purchasing power. Ten percent. By contrast, in 2010, the national government has made an alliance with pensioners, with a 38 percent increase in pensions in the last ten years. This is a 10.3 percent real-life increase. So not only did we preserve its real value, but we also increased it. In addition, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, we were able to pay the pensioners with the Erzsébet voucher and the re-credit certificate. You have reduced the purchasing power of pensions, and we have constantly increased it. That's the difference. [[Interventions in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] And I understand that Gergely Arató says that a hundred victims don't matter because he says that it doesn't matter. He challenged the number of thousands, but it's okay for Gergely Arato to have 100 people injured because of Csaba Czeglédy's actions, it doesn't matter. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] By 2010, honourable Members, there was a deficit of HUF 357 billion in the Pension Insurance Fund. If you had stayed in government, we wouldn't have been able to pay pensions by 2015. You left such a deficit in the pension fund, there was only a deficit of HUF 357 billion by 2010, a deficit of 357 billion in 2010, we would not have been able to pay pensions in 2015 if you had remained in government. This is your pension policy. You have reduced the purchasing value of pensions, and we have constantly increased it because we have made an alliance with pensioners. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-152	What László Varju said last week; only one brand for László Varju and DK is the 13th pension, you said last week that it is only a brand, and we are providing real help to pensioners. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-153	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa, Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman. Mr. President. Dear House, My fellow harvester came up with fantastic revelations. But I've cleared that up a few times. I am the elected president of the National Cooperative Council. This brings together the Hungarian cooperative movement. So that I am making or speaking in Parliament on cooperative matters is not a coincidence, but this has nothing to do with any business. I've never taken a single penny of remuneration from there at any address, never in my life. I don't want to. The cooperative movement is, by the way, the XIX. The Count started in Hungary at the end of the century with the support of the families Károlyi and Bethlen. The main consumption and agricultural production cooperatives they started were the Antya's most well-known economic power in the.30s was greater than the Tesco cooperative movement, which was launched earlier in England, since Tesco stores were not so old as multis, they did not operate as Zrt. but as cooperative stores. The cooperative movement is your political predecessors, whose successors in part only apply to the MSZP, of course, because DK seems to have been newly formed, but in person it is connected to the previous system, it has been beaten all over the world, not only in principle and figuratively but also physically, creating a system of activities that had nothing to do with volunteering and had nothing to do with the otherwise democratic basic requirement for cooperatives. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-154	István Sonák is the president of the National Association of Student Cooperatives. In this sense, he is the president of one of our member associations. And, by the way, you're very good at fighting scammers who, hiding behind student associations, have committed all kinds of fiscal fraud, tax fraud, and have not paid off student associations, the members of this Csaba Czeglédy, by the way, your friend, your political colleague, your colleague, your faithful warrior, Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer and the lawyer of the MSZP. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members within the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The debate is elsewhere, as we have seen it, but we would like to state our position on the proposal, and then, of course, as we have been addressed, a few reactions, we must take place. As Lajos Kósa said, as the author, is an atypical form of employment. That's the biggest problem we've had since the beginning is that this form of employment is atypical. So if they wanted to employ pensioners, in the labour shortage at the time, who needed their work, skills, skills, and skills, and he needed additional salaries and resources in addition to his pension because he couldn't come out of his pension, then they could have been relieved of the contribution by two simple legislative amendments, and then they could have been employed rather than crowded into a cooperative, where, in fact, it's not necessarily worth working for pensioners. It is worth it to those who employ these pensioners in the cooperative, since 2 percent of each wage is added to them. If I remember correctly, that was the original proposal. In other words, people who belong to a defined circle are getting along well, and pensioners, as you said, are obviously free to work in the greatest freedom. I think pensioners would like to spend calm, pleasant, kind retirement years, not work freely and on vacation, so that they can put some more on their pension. By the way, I agree with what many people have said here before me. Yes, the Swiss indexation or mixed indexation, which would have given us the opportunity, say, to raise a 6.8 percent pension this year rather than to give you a pension increase that was roughly eaten by inflation in January. That's the size of the pension increase they gave me. Instead, if this had been introduced, pensioners might have had a better chance of making a living from their pension, sir, but they would only have to supplement it a little bit. So we basically had a construction problem with it, because it's atypical. These cooperatives had to be set up so that those at the head of cooperatives would get rich in what pensioners were working for. The current rule, however, is that they should be included in the Wage Guarantee Fund; if this is already the case, that this atypical form has been created in Hungary, if it is already the case, that at least those sitting on top of the cooperatives will not have to be compensated, and they will make a living from the work of pensioners, at least pensioners can be compensated, compensated and paid from the Wage Guarantee Fund. I think that, in principle, if that is the case, this is also a Eligible step. Of course, where the debate has started, if this goes on, and you want to turn this into a political mess, then obviously it's going to change, but for the sake of historical loyalty, let's say a few things. You promised me a 14th month pension. It was Paul Schmitt who made a personal guarantee and gave such a perforated flyer, and it was possible to cut off Paul Schmitt's personal guarantee. [[17.40]] I remember that Csaba Czeglédy's case was said to be our lawyer, and this matter was mentioned here, but I remember when the Economic Committee wanted to set up a committee of inquiry. I had a constructive suggestion then. I asked that we complement this committee with Members of Parliament, and that György Simonka participate in cooperative farming, as well as in criminal proceedings, have had experiences with which he could help the work of the Economic Committee; that Flórián Farkas take part, and, above all, I asked that the then vice-president of the Economic Committee, Roland Mengyi Voldemort, attend the meeting of the Committee, because he had not been involved in the meetings of the Economic Committee for a very long time. This may have been linked to the fact that he was indicted in court for economic crimes. I asked them to complement this committee of inquiry, because with their experience, the Committee would have a greater insight into the problem that the Committee would like to examine in depth, and we could have put a much more professional substance on Parliament's table. I have made this proposal, and then this committee has never met again; it is true that my proposal was not accepted either. I understand that you're very happy to throw those thoughts and those words at me. Then, I remember asking him to rise within the Economic Commission, even though I asked for a committee to stand up to investigate, say, the case of the Quaestor-harmed; then this committee stood up, and then for four years he did not meet, leaving 32 thousand victims. And we could continue with the broker scandals, foreign exchange loans. Well, gentlemen, a little bit, I think you should pay attention to yourselves when you say things like that, and, above all, in terms of accusations, at least equal standards. I want you to set a level playing field, because one committee stood up, but never met, and the other I didn't make these constructive proposals in vain, but you didn't set up this part. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-156	In return to the bill, I repeat, the proposal itself is, of course, eligible. Our biggest problem is that it's really an atypical form. Why have pensioners not been exempted from the obligation to pay contributions, and then they could have been employed without being bought by people who have chosen you. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to add a few things to what has been said here. There is less and less talk about the original intention of the bill, because it is still about the government, after solving this type of problem for student cooperatives, that, in the context of the crisis and taking advantage of the extraordinary legal order, this year, if the employer is obviously unable to pay, this should be countervailable from the Wage Guarantee Fund. Obviously, the same point of the proposal is to take this step in the case of pensioners' cooperatives, and so in these similar cases, pensioners are also entitled to the same payment. However, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here. Sometimes I feel that the opposition suffers from cognitive dissonance when Csaba Czeglédy's name comes up And there's a disturbance in the force. But let's take it from the top. On the one hand, pensioners get to work, they can't work? I would respectfully ask my fellow Members in DK and MSZP to stop deciding, instead of pensioners, whether or not they want to take a job in favour of a pension, whether they want to take a job or not, whether they want to take a job or not. Obviously, there are a lot of pensioners who, after their active years, still want to do some work that keeps you busy, and it's everyone's own personal decision. To supplement his salary or not, it is obviously a financial issue, but often it is not the only thing that determines their decision to take a job in the world of work, whether through a cooperative or from a different perspective. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's real value!]] As far as pensions are concerned, I would like to say in a low voice that inflation-following pensions are used in most countries of the European Union, and I am always surprised to hear your reasoning. I am sorry that Congressman Varju has gone out, who said that pensions have not even increased, because if I add inflation to it, then, in fact, the purchasing power of pensions has not increased. Real value is precisely that it is corrected by the rise in inflation, so if the purchasing value of pensions has increased by more than 10 per cent at real level, then that means that otherwise the purchasing power of pensions has increased by 10 per cent, it has increased nominally by more than 30 per cent. So you can argue about it, it just comes out a little weird, because sooner or later, you don't know if you're really gonna stop arguing about these basic things or not. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The other is that we are about to return the 13th month pension, my fellow Members, you have taken it. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] It's all right, but you took it, we'll take it back. Next year we spend HUF 70 billion more on pensions than this year, and we will spend a total of HUF 240 billion more on pensions when we return the full 13th month pension. You took it. And what economic opportunities Hungary has? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2002 Hungary's public debt was below 55 percent, and in 2010 it was over 80 percent. You left the country in a state of economics that is specifically due to the excellent crisis management of the government, that the Hungarian economy survived the 2009 crisis at all, and that the Hungarian economy fell even when the global economic crisis did not even ring into Europe. The Hungarian economy had very serious problems already in 2007-08, Ferenc Gyurcsány announced various packages and plans each week, but they could not fix the economy either, they only made the situation worse for the Hungarian economy, and in fact, they left behind a broken-down, robbing country in 2010. As my fellow Member Nacsa said, there was a deficit of HUF 357 billion in the Pension Insurance Fund. [[Dr. László Kács: And the 3000 billion HUF?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the left, you have done this, this has to be fixed, and I think that in a bill like this, which is in front of us, we should rather... [[Dr. László Kács: Yes.]] I mean, you must be thinking about private pension funds. Yeah. Well, it's also a nice story, the private pension fund story, we could go into it, because there was a 5-6 percent return on private pension funds, to which pension contributions were transferred by the Hungarian State; it's also a beautifully made-up construction in which your beneficiaries were involved, but I would rather not open this question now, although we could argue a lot about it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-158	I would rather focus on the fact that this bill provides an opportunity to protect the retired people who want to work. If they get into any problems and the employer can't pay their wages, the Government of Hungary, as it has done over the past ten years, is on the side of pensioners in the coming years, and we will support them. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-159	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I did not want to comment, as I am looking forward to the next item on the agenda, but I was caught up in the interestingness of the subject. Mr Böröcz spoke about the pensions and pensions used throughout Europe. I would remind my fellow Member that the lowest pension in Germany exceeds EUR 1250, from this moment on, if we compare the amount of 1 litre of food oil and basically how much life there costs compared to Hungary, then we will realize that it doesn't matter to a German pensioner what method of pension calculation they use, because he will live anyway, unlike
u2020-06-09-160	Contrary to that! the Hungarian pensioner. And now I'm looking at you a little bit like the agents who are about to sell a massage chair at a gold price, but only for pensioners, because they're the ones that you can shake through exactly this category. Now you're trying to shake the pensioners and get them into a cooperative form that, due to the innovation in Debrecen, exactly the owners of the cooperative are going to make a huge profit, and the pensioners are going to pay for it, and they're going to give it to us like it's some kind of charity. The biggest problem is that, unlike what Lajos Kósa says, the Hungarian average pensioner does not go to work to have fun and because he is bored at home, but goes to work so that he does not starve to death. Now, compared to what you're talking about, it's outrageous. Of course, we could bring up the 13th and 14th months' pensions again, which you have promised, contrary to what you are about to do, because it will not be a 13th month's pension, so if it becomes anything at all, it will be a 53rd week's pension, which otherwise, a lot of pensioners will not have enough to buy 10 kilos of flour. So in this respect, what you are doing here is false, and I think it would be worth considering, otherwise, what this innovation in Debrecen will mean and what it will not mean. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-161	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. [[Intercoms, clear lines of government parties.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Indeed, now that the debate has been widened out by the Fidesz Members, this will give us the opportunity to react on a different subject. [[17.50]] I would like to point out to Congressman Nacsa and our young colleague, Mr Böröcz, that the Fidesz government had taken 19 thousand forints from pensioners during their governance, and that this was the first step of the pension correction programme for the Orbán government. [[Lajos Kósa: It wasn't like that.]] As I recall, Minister Rogán called them calmers and others in his communication as panelproles. [[Lajos Kósa: I'm just warning you not to talk nonsense.]] They've eliminated the Swiss Index representative, press a button, then you can talk, you don't have to yell. , press a button, my fellow Member, and then you can speak, which would make inflation 50 percent, and the other 50 percent of the indexation nominal earnings increase, which, in addition to such an economic growth, would provide enormous help to pensioners, because they should not have raised the pension by 2.8 percent on the basis of the Swiss indexation, but by up to 10-12 percent. VAT was raised to 27 percent. And, you know, I always hear from you that the 13th month pension has been lifted by us, but what I don't understand is why you didn't introduce it right away in 2010. In 2011, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 and 17 why didn't the 13th month pension be introduced? They're talking about a week. We have transformed this issue into a pension premium system after a crisis. Orbán talked about a 14th month pension in 2006 and said that he could finance the 14th month pension from the reduction of contributions between 2006 and 2010. What are you talking about, giving it back to me? We'll see in four years. Next year, one week will be given, which is not much different from the previous system, which was about economic growth.
u2020-06-09-162	So you're actually ignoring pensioners with these suggestions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-163	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to address two questions to my fellow Member, Mesterházy. How many times have you paid a pension premium if you're so proud of this system? How many times have you paid for your retirement? The answer is zero. That's the correct answer. They paid me a pension premium zero times. And I have one more question: how many full years did the 13th month pension live during your time? Three, Your Honour. 2006-7-8. Because before that, from 2002 onwards, you were Secretary of State how was it introduced in 2004? Weekly. 25 percent in the first year, 50 percent in the second year. Just like it's in the bill we're describing right now. We're being held accountable for what you've done. I understand, Congressman Cook, that we're finally on the same page, that we're both embarrassing Csaba Czeglédy, but it wasn't always for you. He said he's supposed to be a lawyer for the MSZP now. The MSZP had a framework contract with the Dr. Czeglédy and Associates Law Office, he defended the heads of the MSZP, he represented their candidate for Prime Minister László Botka in this capacity. I understand it's embarrassing now, but don't try to push Csaba Czeglédy away from MSZP. In fact, MSZP politicians have said that they do not mind that Ferenc Gyurcsány is defending Ferenc Gyurcsány as an MSZP politician and that Ferenc Gyurcsány's lawyer is Csaba Czeglédy. That's what they said. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-164	And if it is already a 14th month pension, let us make this clear once and for all: in 2006 Viktor Orbán announced in Eger that if the contribution reduction and job creation programme proposed by Fidesz were to be implemented, the additional one-month pension could be set. The extra one month's pension was 14 at the time, because it was 13 months' pension, but since you took it away, we're reimbursing the extra one month's pension. We are now introducing what you have eliminated, Ferenc Gyurcsány terminated, you assisted, and those of you who were here, nodding the button. And if you are now the great protectors of pensioners, I would just ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why have you not voted for the 40, Women's programme, with which 280 thousand mothers, grandmothers, have now been able to retire after 40 years of employment, including raising children. You guys backed out. They said these women didn't deserve to retire. That's what they all said here, because only the governing parties could count on the pensioners, just like they did ever before. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-165	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz for two minutes. Here you go. [[Attila Mesterházy: wages increased by 30 percent.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In Germany, Congressman, there is no inflation-following pension increase, there is another system. Besides, if you think that German pensions should be introduced in Hungary now, why didn't you do so in eight years? Why are you asking us now to account for what you didn't do? You are constantly comparing wages in Hungary to German wages and German pensions so that Germany's GDP cannot be compared with that of Hungary. Dear fellow Member, In the last ten years, Hungarian GDP has increased by more than 30 percent. During your time, that could not be said. Indeed, you have increased by 30 percent, but not by GDP, but by Hungarian government debt. You have destroyed this country, and now you have the nerve to ask the Hungarian government why it does not pay any more pensions. The Hungarian Government, as my fellow Member Nacsa said, paid a pension premium and supported pensioners in the form of Elizabeth's vouchers by more than HUF 200 billion in recent years. And in 2010, in the difficult economic situation that you left behind, the government guaranteed to keep the real value of pensions at the level of inflation every year. Compared to this, he made more than 10 percent real pension increase. I think that's what's respectable, and that's what was a very serious task. Obviously, as the Hungarian economy strengthens and develops, it will be possible to reinstate the 13th month pension. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-166	If I were you, I wouldn't be scolding you. I'd be happy to be able to support the pensioners. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since all the factions have explained their position in the general debate on pensions, I think that I will now inform the Honourable Parliament that there is a debate on the Wages Guarantee Fund. That's what I'm saying for the next period. I'll hand over the seat shortly, but I don't want to leave it to the next president. That is my signal to my fellow Members, and I would like to take this into account. So there is a debate on the Wage Guarantee Fund. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, Group of Dialogues. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President, but let me argue with you for a moment. You said that every faction had given its opinion, but I do recall that the Dialogue has not yet given its opinion on this pensioner case. And since this conversation has been about this for half an hour, I just can't help but stop talking to him, since I've spent so much time here in this House. I think one of the fundamental problems here is that, in fact, we are turning around in a really bad circle, because we are talking about who has raised or taken back the pension. By the way, I think you can say extras and minuses on both sides, because we should not forget that after 2010, I calculated exactly one month's pension, just like the Bajnai government did during the crisis. But it would be more important in Hungary that the whole pension issue should be based on a normative basis, and not on the fact that a government wants to give or does not want to give to pensioners. Therefore, I was very pleased when you nationalised private pension funds in 2011 and promised that private pension fund savings would be written on everyone's personal pension account, and a nominal individual account system would be established, in which it will be clear to everyone that what you have paid and what you receive has a close link. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[18.00]] To do so, the only thing that should have been added to such a private account system, or determined in an exact manner, is the extent to which the average increase in pensions will take place year after year, and then it would have been a normative process, and then the Prime Minister would not have said in that sleek interview that I would see how the economy is doing, and then I will raise it, because it would not be a question of that. But you've even eliminated it from the Fundamental Law. The story here is that the person who worked 40, 42 or 45 years and paid the right money the whole time is actually not looking for a donation or charity, he should not be grateful, but should be able to get back what he paid for at the time. This should have been done in a normative way. This is what I expected from you, and then I strongly supported the nationalisation of private pension funds, precisely because I was thinking of such a normative system. That didn't happen at all.
u2020-06-09-168	So I think that if we're thinking about this issue, we should be thinking here, not about who took the 13th, who didn't give it to us. By the way, it is certainly true, and I also vividly remember that in 2006, when the election was lost, the Prime Minister invited some of us to tell us what our opinion was, what was the cause of this loss. At the time, I remember saying that I also said that the Prime Minister had made promises that could not be kept, and I mentioned, for example, the 14th month. Indeed, the Prime Minister did not say that he did not promise this, but said that this seemed to be a good idea at the time, or at that time it seemed so, and Minister Varga very strongly approved this question. I'm just saying this for the sake of historical loyalty. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-169	Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. In the line of speeches by the Members of the General Assembly, Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. [[Lajos Kósa: Come forward!]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said in the debate, so it may be a little better to respond to it in the normal comment. The first is that, Mr Böröcz, I thought that the job creation and the reduction of contributions had been achieved, because until now we have heard in this House how much jobs you have created have been reduced. Because he claimed that the Prime Minister said in 2006 that if the job creation and the reduction of contributions could be achieved, then the 14th month pension could be introduced, then my fellow Member Nacsa said... sorry, I just can't see you from the column, because you put me in this cage, back here. So how... The string won't get that far, that's the problem. So my real problem is that you guys are talking about how this is done, so it would have been a long time ago to introduce 13 months' and 14 months' pensions. Congressman Nacsa, I would be very happy to, and you are right, thank you very much for saying this, and not me, for saying that the 13th month's pension has lived for three years, which is just three years more than you have introduced so far. So I think we're still better off at this than you say. [[Lajos Kósa: Only Czegledy is a criminal!]] The other is that you were talking about Mr. Czeglédy being embarrassing to us. It's not embarrassing, it's not embarrassing at all, my honourable fellow Member. No one denied that he worked for the Hungarian Socialist Party, worked for DK, even had the politician of the MSZP, and even the business competitor of the Sons with whom Mr.Lajos Kósa has an excellent relationship, who constantly helps him with the administration of such laws, and who continues to accompany Lajos Kósa's life. So there's nothing wrong with the way he's not ashamed of Mr. Sons. We're not ashamed of Csaba Czeglédy working with him. However, if you have mentioned these questions, let me ask one of your current fellow Members, how ashamed you are, because you are probably not ashamed of my colleague, Miklós Simon, whom the High Prosecutor asked for in 2009, you were not a Member of this Parliament, because five people were suspected of committing a crime, he was the prime defendant. At the time, there was no MSZP, the majority of that government, Fidesz did not give Mr.Miklós Simon to the Hungarian prosecutor. So it wasn't about being published, and then the procedure went down. It wasn't published! The interesting thing about this case is that four of the five suspects have already been convicted, the fifth one they didn't know, the one sitting here in Parliament, Miklós Simon. He couldn't be convicted because his immunity is simply protecting this Member of Parliament from this thing. Since then, he's been systematically, constantly a Member of Parliament, if I remember correctly, he may have been brought in from a list, although I'm not sure about that.
u2020-06-09-170	Nevertheless, I ask you, then you are ashamed of Miklós Simon, that four of the five men could be convicted, and one because you defended him with immunity and did not consider it right and important that the procedure should be conducted. So now the prison team is pretty good on Fidesz, too, so I think you should be more careful with your critical remarks. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I got into a pleasant debate as president of the board.
u2020-06-09-171	But I like it, even because I can choose how to give the floor to Mr László Szakács, who applied for a normal word for two minutes. So for the time being, give me your opinion in two minutes, if you wouldn't have withdrawn it. I will now give the floor to Congressman László Szakács as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go. [[Defiance.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't mean to take it back, I just pressed a button.
u2020-06-09-172	It's not a complicated device, but it's...
u2020-06-09-173	You'll tell me that within another time, because...
u2020-06-09-174	I'll tell you. [[Defiance.]] ... social and individual psychology has always been interested in the fact that, despite his intention, his hands move so that he pressed the button.
u2020-06-09-175	But it doesn't matter now, I don't want to upset you. Speak to the subject, please. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, There really was a lot going on, but I would have repeated my suggestion. So when Csaba Czeglédy wanted to set up a Committee of Inquiry for the Economic Commission, I proposed three Members of Parliament, which Fidesz did not support, György Simonka, Florian Farkas and the vice-president of the Economic Commission at that time, Roland Mengyi, because they had the background knowledge, trade union farming, pardon, and cooperative farming, by the way. And then we didn't have this committee. So we wanted to get to the bottom of this case. Private pension funds, isn't that what my fellow Member Böröcz said? And what a return they've worked with! Do you know what the return on that was? They worked at 6.5 percent, that's what you said. When you involved it, and let's not forget, it was involved that whoever wanted to stay in had to pay 75 percent. [[László Böröcz intervenes.]] Private pension fund: so if the Hungarian pension system were still on three legs, pensioners might not have to work or work in a cooperative to enrich others, who were mentioned here today, of which HUF 1760 billion was a government bond. Those private pension funds of that HUF 3000 billion, please, financed the Hungarian state. They bought state papers, they just had to get involved. He had to be involved. Read about it. I'm sure you haven't been involved in this job yet. 1760 billion forints were only to be involved, the rest of it... Press a button and we'll hear each other better. The rest of it, there were foreign papers in it, and under adventurous circumstances, it was transferred to a certain commercial bank that neither the central bank nor the Treasury could answer for me for two years. Then I remember asking this question several times, and I asked in writing what the President of the Central Bank Matolcsy would say about the abuse or abuse of this, and I wrote in a written reply by President Matolcsy that he, as President of the Central Bank, had nothing to do with the decisions that the Government's Minister for Economic Affairs had made earlier. But, my honourable fellow Member, he was the Minister of Economy when this was done, when sovereign debt and foreign bonds were withdrawn, and he was adventurously sent to one of the commercial banks that had been selected. This is what happened to the pension savings of Hungarian people, so you can go now, as you said, my fellow Member Kósa, free, so you can go to work on holiday, especially if you are celebrating at home or bored at home. Well, let's not forget what they were after you plowed in private pension funds. Do you remember the individual pension bills? What a campaign you've made, besides having an individual pension bill, and Gabriella Selmeczi will personally look after her and people's pension savings! If I remember correctly, it was also a government commissioner, and then suddenly it became a cooperative, honourable Members. Then the pensioners could go to work, and the two percent of what they worked out would be given to someone who had nothing to do with this other than starting a cooperative. [[18.10]]
u2020-06-09-176	This has happened over the past period in relation to the pension, and as it disappeared, that HUF 3000 billion has evaporated, and as you did not raise pensions according to the Swiss indexation, you have raised pensions by 2.8 percent last year in vain! Then, in January, we managed to devalue the forint against the euro and trigger inflation so much that already in January a euro ate 350 forints, please watch it if you do not follow it! And they did 4.4 percent inflation in January and February, which already ate the pension increase! The price of basic food has increased by 20-30 percent. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-177	Congressman Lajos Kósa, in order. You have one minute to give your point of order. Here you go. [[Gergely Arató: Congressman Böröcz should be consulted.]] Mr. President. Dear House, My esteemed fellow Members! If we ask someone now, what kind of legislation is the subject of this debate, there is no living person to say it. But it's a Wage Guarantee Fund presentation. Here everything was, Swiss indexation, what Viktor Orbán said in 2002 How it was, Csaba Czegledy and Voldemort.
u2020-06-09-178	I would just like to ask you one thing, Mr President, that we try to discuss the proposal on the Wage Guarantee Fund, because I have already lost track of everything here, I mean it. I'm waiting for Verecke to show up at the presentation.
u2020-06-09-179	Thank you very much. I'm picking up the slack right now, so I'm starting to fit in with you. I can now continue this in two-minute speeches, now understanding. Indeed, I ask you all with respect to express your views on the law in question. First in two minutes, Congressman Nacha, KDNP. [[Defiance.]] As regards the Wage Guarantee Fund, it is important to note that Ildikó Lendvai said in 2010 [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Go, Lawrence, like this!]] that there is no cover in the pension fund for HUF 590 billion. So, in 2010, you were in charge in January when you said there was no cover for 590 billion. And then Lajos Korózs, the video blogger, said as State Secretary, also in early 2010, that if Fidesz introduces 40, which we have now implemented, we will immediately raise the retirement age to 70 years. After you lost 10,5 percent of your purchasing value, you lost 10,5 percent of your value, then you started campaigning on false charges, and then the retirement age came, and from 2010 onwards, the real value of pensions increased by 10.3%, plus the pension premium plus the vouchers, by 10.3 percent. Honourable Member, the statistics or figures must be read, they have increased by 10.3 percent and there has been a 38 percent increase in total pensions. It's a shame to deny it. You took it, and we'll give it back, it's that simple. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-180	The Wage Guarantee Fund is an important thing, and we also support pensioners' cooperatives. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No, no, never!]] Congressmen, respectable! I get it, and text analysis is one of my specialties, so I'm listening, and I'm gonna follow the house rules, considering that if you don't do that, then I'm gonna have to be back to chair by midnight, which I'm not sure we want together. [[Lajos Kósa: I've had it!]]
u2020-06-09-181	Congressman Attila esterházy as a regular speaker. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we've been here all day since 10:00 a.m., and we didn't have a chance to go and come back, but we've been sitting here all day arguing in Parliament. So with due respect, probably because you don't know the history, you don't understand the intensity of this debate. We do nothing but defend the position of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the decisions of our government here in the debate. But, basically, I would also like to ask Mr Lajos Kósa, in agreement with his point of order, to put the group in order, because it was not the opposition representatives who began to talk about what was the subject, but also Mr Nacsa, who started to direct this debate somewhat personally in a different direction, while opposition representatives wanted to focus on what is the proposal itself. Therefore, I think that all we have done is to answer your accusations, and we will do so even if we sit here until midnight, because that is simply our job to protect what we believe or what we think was the right thing to do. I absolutely do not deny you the right, of course, to do the same with your own proposals. [[Dr. László Cook applauds.]]
u2020-06-09-182	Just because I appreciate the President, who is in charge of this meeting, I will not begin by suggesting that Fidesz had a proposal to introduce the Swedish pension system, which would have been about something quite different, but I will save it, just to see if we can really return to the Wage Guarantee Fund, which I agree with Mr Nacsa is a very important thing, while the amendment on cooperatives is certainly a very important thing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[For signal:]] Thank you, too. Of course, from your assignment, I will observe and enforce the house rules. I would like to ask Congressman Mesterházy, because he asked for two minutes to take this back... We talked about this. [[No signal.]] Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to comment on the debate? I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I will now ask Mr Lajos Kósa, as rapporteur, if he would like to reflect on what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-09-183	You have the floor. Absolutely, Mr. President, absolutely. Thank you for the opportunity. I apologise in advance to this House, but I will respond only to those which are the subject of the proposal, and therefore not to historical outlooks, from the very broad and fluctuating debate. I would just like to say a little bit, because Mr President wasn't here at the beginning of the debate, but we have made very exciting detours that the first Member who spoke for the debate, who took the direction of the debate in a completely different direction, was Dániel Z. Karpát, because in my proposal on the Wage Guarantee Fund, he began to debate the whole pension system. He said it was a good suggestion, but what about the pension system? However, the complete structural change in the pension system is not yet an issue of the wage guarantee amendment, although it could be experimented with. So it is not right to criticise Congressman Nacsa because Dániel Z. Karpát was the first to take the debate in a completely different direction. At the same time, it is tempting to respond to what has been said in the debate, but I would only like to make a few comments on the entry of pensioners' cooperatives into the Wage Guarantee Fund. Dear fellow Members, From what I see, incompetence remains enormous in terms of employment, atypical forms of employment. Therefore, let me stress once again some of the most important things. I did not say that the founder of the Hungarian cooperative movement was Sándor Károlyi in fact, he was the first president of the XIX. At the end of the century. At the time of the formation, and pay attention, because I have said this many times, but it is always misplaced, the co-operatives work on the basis of a one-voting principle and are based on open membership. That means the co-operative owns the membership itself. So when Congressman Varga said that in the work of the cooperative the owners would make a good living, he said that the cooperative members would prosper and enrich themselves. And all sorts of assumptions that people were afraid of, that I wouldn't know what kind of background people would get rich here, that's all bullshit. They don't understand the essence of the cooperative movement. The owner of the cooperative is the member: it chooses the chairman, the supervisory board, the business policy of the cooperative, and decides on the proportion of the assets produced by the cooperative to those who are members of the cooperative. So we're not talking about looting, or I don't know what kind of bullshit the fellow Members are talking, I'm sorry, but there really is absolutely no idea. [[18.20]] So, Congressman Varga, if you really think that the owners of the cooperative will make a profit on their work, then I am glad that this is the cooperative membership itself, ergo the pensioners, and it is only possible to avoid abuse, so that, by the way, the management elected by the cooperative membership will separate a few percent from the budget, a few percent. On the other hand, the atypical form of employment is distinguished from the typical one by the fact that it is significantly different. It's just that the fellow Members don't understand it again, although it's simple again. So my fellow cook, our knowledgeable lawyer colleague, says that we should not organise cooperatives, but abolish the contributions of pensioners from both the employee and the employer, because that would be the most desirable. Good morning, my dear fellow chef, this has happened, it has been introduced. But what's the point? 'Cause it's not like there's only one solution. What does it mean to be employed under the Labour Code? I'm sorry to operate on such basic terms, but there was such a desperate lack of information here in this House that I'm really shocked myself. In second grade, law students would be fired. For employment under the Labour Code, there are a few basic principles: the worker has an obligation to work and work, and he has to go to work. As his contract regulates this with extremely strict rules, he must be given freedom and have different advantages. On the other hand, the employer has an obligation to work, and it cannot just be sent. The terms of employment are regulated within the framework of the Labour Code, it is a strict... This is not unknown to the vast majority of people, because this is how they work. So those who are employees work in this legal system. What's atypical like? And I'm not talking typically about temporary agency work, because temporary agency work is atypical, but actually, the rules are very similar to the work done under the Labour Code. The real atypical is co-operative employment, because there's self-employment. Ten people are setting up a cooperative. They're not taking a job formally, they're entering into an entrepreneurial contract. The cooperative agrees, I'll give you just one example, because otherwise this is met by everyone who has been to the cinema in Hungary to operate the cinema. The undertaking that concludes this contract is, as a matter of fact, the employer does not ask who will sit in the cash register. He doesn't have HR, and it doesn't go according to the logic of the Labour Code, but he sees how the buffet works, who the cinema is open, so he fulfils the business contract by the employment association that took it. He does not ask that it is written that I do not know, Béla Kovács works until 2-6 in the cash register, and why Béla Kovács is not in there, but another member of the cooperative. Because that's how it was arranged, the cashier's open. According to the Labour Code, you have to sit in the cash register for those who are assigned there; you can't say that children, I'm not in the mood for the cash register, I want to sell pop-ups, let's trade. So the employment cooperative in Hungary is typically a student cooperative and pensioner cooperative, which is an extremely flexible system for pensioners and students in two special life situations. That's exactly what gives him the advantage, because the cooperative is going to do some work, but the students are going to do some things, the party went on for a long time, the exam didn't come up, they're going to arrange for me not to go in now, and then I'm going to work some other time, or that's all I can do. Either a co-operative member says that I only want to be in the cash register one day a week for two hours, or I'm just selling pop-ups, but at a certain time, and I'm gonna trade that. Here the work is done, the business contract is completed, the cooperative is paid, but in a highly flexible work. That's what a pensioner and a student can benefit from. This is a real atypical employment. And that's exactly what makes it possible for a pensioner who doesn't want to work five days a week, eight hours a day, but he still wants to go to community, he still wants to do something useful, don't give me, God, make some money, it's an opportunity. The shocking thing about the whole debate is that the opposition, which is constantly dictatorizing, as opposed to freedom, does not believe in freedom-based regulation when we do not create obligations, but create opportunities. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: That is not true!]] Why does it hurt you if there's a pensioner who says I want to do something else? Not all pensioners work under duress [[Gergely Harvesto keeps interrupting.]] a lot of people, by the way, the typical person right now is exactly who says: I'm still quite active, I have some free time, I don't want to sit at home all the time, or I want a little extra money, even temporarily, to earn and give him an opportunity. It is not negligible, by the way, that 180,000 students worked in student cooperative employment in March, and last year they earned 60 billion, of which 98 percent were paid by the cooperative members. This student, in his spare time or when he was able to organize the job. This is more than half of the higher education students. And by the way, the pensioners' union started, and they did roughly 5 billion forints, much harder. Obviously, there's a lot of other problems there that need to be solved. Obviously, students have much more flexibility and adaptability than older people, but the elderly are more disciplined and work-sociated, so interestingly, in many industries, let's say, before the pandemic, they were specifically looking for these cooperatives, and they earned about HUF 5 billion, which they also received, except for administrative costs. The proposal itself has come up with no regulatory error, so what my fellow Member László Varju said is a simple mistake or incoherence, because there is no regulatory error, because the Wages Guarantee Fund has also confirmed this, and whoever is a little concerned with this, knows a typical institutional system for the safety of employees under the Labour Code. It's about my classic employer being ruined, liquidated, insolvent, bankrupt, forced out, and then, after my work done, I'll get paid, paid by the Wage Guarantee Fund. It's classic operation. In this sense, I do not dispute it, although the opposition has not said it at all, a criticism can be expressed that, in fact, the guarantee provided by the Wage Guarantee Fund does not typically fit this employment cooperative, because it is carried out on the basis of a business contract rather than on the basis of a contract of employment. Only if we look at the whole operation, we see that it is actually much closer to a special form of employment than a classic business performance. And by the way, the government, recognising this and taking advantage of the possibility of creating a decree in the extraordinary legal situation, also at the request of the Student Associations, which, for decades, has been engaged and has been headed by István Fiák, a lawyer, who also does not ask for a penny for this, but is happy to do so, as he has also done cooperative work as a student, the government has accepted the request for a student cooperative, and until December, this is the case until the end of the year. We know that if the extraordinary legal situation is abolished by Parliament, then these regulations will run out with the deadline laid down in the regulations, so there will actually be an open question about the entry of student cooperatives into the Wage Guarantee Fund, but this is the music of the future. [[18.30]] I was thinking, as president of the National Cooperative Council, that I would make a proposal to Parliament. Everyone seemed to be on the side of the pensioners in the debate, or everyone was speaking for the benefit of the pensioners. I will stop now, Mr President, although it is not easy for me not to talk about all the nonsense that has been said in this regard, but if you are serious about this, you will only support this proposal by virtue of the power of gesture. And, of course, pensioners, whether they are cooperative members or not, whether they are in the Wage Guarantee Fund or not, are entitled to a pension. Of course, the other rules remain the same. They will continue to choose their leaders. The presidents of pensioners' cooperatives are typically pensioners themselves, and they come out of the membership, and there is nothing else to choose; they determine what they are willing to do, how much. If they don't like it, they won't do it. So this is a freedom-based regulation. It would be a nice gesture for Parliament to include pensioners' cooperatives in the Wage Guarantee Fund. I would also ask the honourable Members to bring them in. The pensioner cooperative is an absolute open case, only membership determines what happens. But by the way, because there is also a pensioner-cooperative interest movement called Public Prosecutor, which is also a member of the OSZT, so I'm in contact with them as the president of a member organisation, and I've talked to them, and they've also said that there hasn't actually been an example here that this is necessary. So right now, there's no contract that the client didn't pay for. But they said if the students are involved, let's raise the pensioners. That's what I'm proposing. Please support my suggestion. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-184	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Lajos Korózs Congressman Fidesz, the submission submitted by Mr T/10864. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-185	First, I give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go.
u2020-06-09-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. He said the name of Lajos Korózs as a Fidesz author.
u2020-06-09-187	No way! Lajos Kosa.
u2020-06-09-188	It was obviously a slip of the tongue.
u2020-06-09-189	I don't think I lost my tongue.
u2020-06-09-190	It doesn't matter.
u2020-06-09-191	But did he recognize you as Congressman Lajos Kósa?
u2020-06-09-192	Absolutely. I felt found, and I also knew that Mr President was definitely thinking of me. [[Sándor Hadházy applauds.]] That's right. Then we'll be on the same string both mentally and physically.
u2020-06-09-193	You have the floor. Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I'm just going to say in advance that I'm very, very curious about how far we're going to go on this very important presentation, which seems to apply to a very narrow area, but who knows, after all, a paprika can be the basis of a Nobel Prize, as we know, Szentgyörgyvölgyi Since professor. The point of my proposal is this. With regard to the establishment of water utility facilities, from the very beginning, when they were consciously developed in the country, there were very limited legal and operational situations and they remained in the system. I'd like to solve this kind of circumstantial thing in some way. How did such a shambles come about? Today, as a rule, the water utility is either state-owned or local government-owned and cannot be in any other way. The public service is owned by the State or by the local government. But, of course, there are water utilities that are not so owned. These were created in connection with previous developments and special situations. I'll give you a typical example. There was a need for water. In the '70s, the tees-side operation carried out the plumbing and the canal with the money of the theathes, and, by the way, it was activated in the books of the theathes, after the investment. Since then the theathes has been ruined, but the theaess-side operation has gone into some form of society, its books have left the water utility, the theaes-side operation a company, the company has some kind of destiny, but in the meantime I am telling you a real situation now, so for example, the the theaess-side operation has ceased its activity, it has been introduced into the area, and today there is a residential area. After the land had the water and the canal, of course the real estate developers, by the way, were completely legally linked to this existing system of services, and today the situation is that there is a residential community, then there is a corporate owned canal and drinking water pipeline, and then someone, typically a public or municipal service provider, provides it. But there's a private wire involved. There are about four to five hundred such situations in Hungary in various forms. Here's the problem. It is always up to the good graces of the players to solve the basic problems. First of all, to what extent is the owner responsible for ensuring that the plumbing, i.e. infrastructure in the ground, meets the criteria that are otherwise subject to regulation? Because he says he's not a service provider, he has a limited right to intervene, and by the way, he thinks it's his job for the service provider who operates there. Then the big question is, when that happens, how do you activate it? Right? Because the service provider invests on foreign property, and on public property, on foreign property, because it has to do all kinds of things, cleaning eyes, replacements, and so on and so forth. It modernises it, but it will not be owned by it, because otherwise the owner, who is an external individual, typically an economic company, gives him a licence, but does not change the ownership. How, then, can this be amortised? I'm investing as a community service provider, but I can't account for depreciation, I can't activate my investment. The other big typical problem is the rent itself. How much do I have to ask as a private owner to otherwise be handed to the public on my wire? This type of situation results in the worst legal disputes. I was looking for a solution to this situation, and here's what I'm proposing. Today, the agency concerned, by the way, the energy office, of course, has the opportunity to classify a water utility as a public service. In this public service, I shall include a set of conditions, namely that the pipeline should, in the vast majority, pass through state-owned or municipal-owned areas. In any case, this condition must be included, because the typical thing is that, at the time when these wires were set up, they were not registered on the ground. So we're talking about using it without the right to serve. It could also be argued why the owner who put his property in it would not pay a penny for the land use, but I do not suggest that we go in that direction, because then it will be an endless debate. So what we're saying now is that if the energy office qualifies this water utility as a public service, it will open up to the municipality, the state, or the service provider, which is state-owned or municipal-owned, the possibility of asking for expropriation for this facility. This is a very well-known procedure, a public interest, a methodology developed for land and real estate, a very old institution of the Hungarian legal order, so there seems to be nothing wrong with it. There's one small thing about him, namely, that it's real estate. So the expropriation law applies to real estate. No one's mastering anything. I can't. Typical movable property may be seized or sold or pawned, but it is not expropriated. Therefore, the sectoral law had to include a pass that is quite complex and lengthy, but is in full synchronized with expropriation rules, and which is about how to interpret the rules of expropriation for this special item of property and only for this special item of property. [[18.40]] All the safeguards are included in my regulation, which the Constitutional Court otherwise required in the case of property expropriations. Therefore, an assessment, payment must be made, and there is a rule that I have made that if the expropriation takes place, when ownership changes, the service provider still has two years to make this line suitable for the service criteria applicable to it. Because it's obvious that if you take over a larger wiring system, you can't transform it overnight. In fact, we have put into the law the weirdness required by the Constitutional Court in a decision to examine expropriations, namely that if there is an interest in expropriation, the expropriated person may also ask for the restoration of the original situation. What's this about in real estate? Typical situation, street opening. They own the land, the owner didn't want it, they paid it, there's nothing to do, but the municipality changes the regulatory plan, there won't be a street there, in Hungarian, in which case the owner may ask for the restoration of the original state. This has also been included in these rules, despite the fact that here the attentive reader may ask the question that the Constitutional Court requires the restoration of the original state as a condition of legal certainty for expropriation. Yes, but this is contrary to the principle laid down in the sectoral law that water utilities may be owned by a state or a local government, and when the expropriation has already taken place, it is state or local government-owned, then the original state could only be restored if it were removed from state or municipal ownership, which is contrary to this law. However, I left it in there just because, by the way, the Constitutional Court has required us to put in place this legal guarantee even if it is pointless. In the case of the water utility, it is highly unlikely to happen because it would assume that for some reason the service will cease on the given pipeline, but if the service is terminated on the given pipeline, so it is not used to do so, then the restoration of ownership rights is of no use, because what someone is doing with a plumbing that is mine, but there is no water in it, and there is also a canal in it, but nothing is done in it. Thus, interest is difficult to interpret conceptually, but I have allowed it to comply with the requirement of the Constitutional Court in this respect as well. If that happens, I will add, Mr House, I have consulted the Energy Office, some of these kinds of disputes and problems are decades old, and they have not been able to do anything about it. I think that if we do this now, we have made a little step forward in a case, we can end 400-500 debates. In this sense, expropriation is a proven legal institution, the special application of which is developed, so it works, and then we can help these situations. [[Defiance.]] I would like to note here at the end that I did not have a complete transcription of the water utility service among my goals. You can charge me, but you shouldn't have to implement the reduction in the costs and the consequences of it... the reform of the fixed infrastructure tax system was also not part of the programmes. I'm saying this because it came up at the Economic Committee meeting that it was a good proposal, but why didn't I put it in there? No, Mr. President knows that, because if I pull out dualism, I won't write about the Arpad era, because if I write about the Arpad era, the examiner thinks I don't know what dualism is, and that's why I'm talking shit. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-194	I tried to solve this in some way, not a comprehensive, I don't know how grandic, holistic regulation is, but it serves the purpose, it works. Please support this proposal, we're moving forward a little bit. Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Thank you specifically for giving me an example of the whole picture, helping me to understand what this is all about. So now all I have to do is ask Secretary Anita Boros to speak on behalf of the government.
u2020-06-09-195	Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the government, it is extremely important to fight environmental and climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. Our basic law also mentions the idea that everyone has the right to access a healthy environment and a good quality drinking water, which is a cornerstone of the development of society and the economy. It is very important to point out that water is part of our lives, that we do not exist without it, so it is very important to protect it. Water also determines not only our daily lives but also the economy. It is essential for agriculture, energy, the food industry and indeed for all our industrial sectors. It is also important for achieving various social policy objectives, as it is one of the cornerstones of ensuring viable cities and the functioning of households and businesses. We want to protect our common treasure, drinking water, with all our means, because we are talking not only about our own, but also about the future of our children and grandchildren. With this in mind, the Government will make every effort to ensure the sustainability of the water utility service. Dear Parliament, Public utility water supply is a value that has no alternative. The long-term sustainability of quality water supply has certain essential elements, the first being the protection of the appropriate water base and these water bases, and secondly, the existence and provision of adequate infrastructure and, thirdly, the improvement of security of supply. The CCIX 2011 on water utility services. In recent years, law and its amendments have essentially sought to establish transparent legal relations in the field of water utility services. As the author has said, since the entry into force of the Water Utilities Act, practices and experience in the application of the law have shown that there are still water facilities that either perform a sewage treatment function or have a supply service function for drinking water, but are not owned by the State or by the municipality. So, in fact, these aquatic installations would be water utilities for their function and purpose, but according to the legislation in force, their classification as water utilities has not been solved, but their track is on some state-owned or municipal property. The proposed amendment aims to solve these problems. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-196	Dear Parliament, On the government's side, we support the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-06-09-197	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Dear Parliament, First, Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, gives his opinion. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In advance, I would like to thank Lajos Kósa for presenting the very detailed, comprehensive and guide presentation. I think that we have been able to learn from the negotiation of the Law on the Wage Guarantee Fund, and here it is very precisely and clearly stated what the law tabled is about. As we have heard from our fellow Member in the Expo, the T/10864. The CCIX of 2011 on water utility services. The purpose of the bill amending Act No 1 is to create a clear situation for those responsible for the provision of water utilities and for users. In my speech, I would like to briefly summarise the key elements of the proposal and highlight the substance of the proposal. Dear House, In Hungary, the issues of water supply, water supply, water supply and sanitation have been highlighted in recent years in the context of Hungary's accession to the European Union. Among the most important of the current and future tasks of the water utility supply, service, are the safety of operational and long-term water bases and the continuous development of sewage treatment and sewage treatment. The country's specific capacity, which also takes into account the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, must be preserved, is that the supply of water to public utilities is based predominantly on a water base installed on groundwater resources. This potential is also a priority task, since a large part of these water bases are found in a vulnerable geological environment. It is important to note that every settlement in our country has a utility waterworks, the water supply network within the settlements is nearly complete. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, The Water Utility Act defines the concept of water utility as an infrastructure tool for service activities. Under the law, the water utilities covered by the definition can only be owned by the State or local government, which is intended to guarantee security of supply. On the other hand, practical experience has shown that there are a number of water facilities connected to the water utility system for draining, collecting and supplying drinking water, which, in terms of their function, clearly plays the role that can be seen from the statutory definition of water utilities, and whose trail is largely on state or municipal property. According to the proposal, if the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office qualifies a non-state or municipal water facility as a water utility, the right and obligation of the person responsible for the supply will be opened to acquire the ownership of a water utility owned by a non-state or municipal authority in the context of the creation of infrastructure conditions for the water utility service. The acquisition of ownership may take place in accordance with the general rules of civil law or the rules governing the change in the ownership of the water utility contained in this amendment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-198	Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is, in my view, forward-looking, since the situation of these aquatic installations will be settled with the bill. The Fidesz fraction supports, please support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-199	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2020-06-09-200	Thank you very much. Mr President, In fact, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and this would greatly help us to decide whether we can support or not this bill, what is the reason why she is trying to do so, what specific projects she is trying to clarify. So what's the motivation in bringing this law in now? Because the proposal is not basically from the devil, and there should be no misunderstanding, not even from the position of opposition, but from the justification or the law it is not clear what specific situations the Hungarian State should be in in in a situation which, where appropriate, serves the security aspects of public utility services, the efficiency aspects, by expropriating private property. In many cases there is a lot of reason and meaning, because the Hungarian state may be able to organise this better or with greater efficiency, so this logic is not far from the thinking of a left-wing politician, but we do not see the specific issues where such problems may arise. If this could be seen more clearly, we would like to thank the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-201	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Attila Mesterházy's question is entirely legitimate, but Lajos Kósa spoke of it in his expoze, such situations, but it is really important that we also say specific situations where this law is implemented, but for a brief period of twelve minutes this was also mentioned in the author's exposé. We know that Hungary is a water power, let us look at the world of water for a while, since the age of environmental protection and dualism was mentioned here in the debate of the law, since one of our most important national treasures is clean, good quality drinking water suitable for human consumption; in parentheses: even our medicinal waters could be classified here. Ensuring access to drinking water in Hungary is a fundamental right, which is included in our Fundamental Law. Access to drinking water is the most fundamental function of life, which the state must guarantee, so water management and water utility services are of particular importance from a national strategic point of view. In everyday life, it is completely natural for us to open taps in Hungary's settlements, in our homes, and to have access to drinking water of edible quality, but if we look out into the world, it is not universal everywhere in Europe. For this reason, since 2010, the national Christian Democratic Government has given particular importance to the Hungarian national ownership of utilities, especially waterworks, which are extremely important for the national economy and national strategy. We remember when Gábor Demszky, former mayor of Budapest, gave the Budapest Waterworks and the Metropolitan Channel Works to foreign property in 1997 for pennies, which he then cynically called a very good business. Similarly, subway 4 was a very good deal. The Budapest Waterworks with more than 150 years of history and experience, which serve two million consumers daily with drinking water, were bought back by the capital under the leadership of Mayor István Tarlós in 2012, and has been once again owned by the Municipality of Budapest. Thus, since 2010, the state has not decreased, but has increased significantly, by one and a half times, in other words, all of our common national assets. The national government is therefore constantly recovering the previously squandered national strategic public utilities. It is particularly important for us that in these difficult times, the burden on families is not increased, and the national government does not allow households' overhead costs to increase significantly in any crisis. One of the essential elements of the Water Utilities Act is the existence of the water utility itself, the concept of service activity as an infrastructure instrument. The bill before us, presented by my fellow Member Lajos Kósa, provides an opportunity for the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to classify water installations that are not yet classified as water utilities, which are connected to the water utility system. Where the Office considers a non-State or municipal water facility to be a water utility, it shall have the right and obligation to acquire the ownership of a non-State or municipal water utility in the context of the creation of infrastructure conditions for the water utility service. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-202	The proposal is forward-looking and is therefore supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-203	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga is the lead speaker of DK. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Understanding the presentation, the presentation before me and my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, dualism, at the Árpád era, his unquenchable interest in consummation and expropriation, let me nevertheless be a little buzzkill, and ask the question, because it is a very important issue of national strategy that we are talking about, that in fact his good masters are able to, that they want to be the local governments and the state to be the water utilities entrusted to us or to be entrusted to us. I have to say that in both cases, my answer is, unfortunately, no; no, the municipalities are largely because they can't, and the municipal companies can't, and the state is probably because it doesn't want to. And I am glad that I am not the first person to talk about this, because we know very well that the government has sacrificed utility companies on the altar of jipropaganda, not only for the transportation of garbage, but also for the supply of drinking water and sewage, and we are seeing it now in a state of bankruptcy. [[19.00]] The reason for all this is quite clear: the government's policy of lying public services. After all, we can see very well that the water utility companies are suffering, basically as a result of the reduction of the rent, the sectoral wages have fallen deep below the lower half of the frog, but there is a lack of improvements, and in many cases even the mandatory maintenance tasks have been cancelled in the last ten years. The situation is already clearly threatening the safe supply of drinking water and the operation of sanitation. As a result of the near bankruptcy situation, the orderly and generally absent development of water utility systems can no longer be resolved under both corporate and municipal powers. This is also shown by the fact that the leaders of the companies concerned are practically begging for government help. It shows well the established and more desperate situation than the calm situation that, due to the low wages below average and the underdeveloped developments, as well as the near bankruptcy situation of several water utility companies, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán submitted a petition to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in January this year. The petition of the Alliance is, in fact, the cry for help of drowning people in this case, in which the immediate suspension of the so-called utility tax and, in addition to the unchanged consumer price, the immediate reduction of VAT is requested from the government, and the gravity of the situation is shown by the fact that they have not actually turned to the government, but directly to the Prime Minister. In their view, this could be a substantial step forward, and this would allow wage improvements to be made in the sector and would also help network reconstructions. According to their calculations, the suspension of the public utility tax would amount to HUF 14 billion, while the reduction of the VAT rate to 18% would mean another HUF 23 billion of new resources. Otherwise, what makes this situation really worrying, which you have created the water utilities, or I could say that in the field of such public services, it is a study by your government, in fact, of your royal analyst, Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt., because according to their data, by 2022, there can be up to 25 percent less workers than would be required for the proper water supply. The reason for this is clearly seen in uncompetitive, deeply below average, extra-low wages, resulting labour emigration and an increasing shortage of professionals. We know that very well, and Lajos Kósa, as Debrecen, has also experienced an increasing frequency of faults on the public utility network, plumbing, urban plumbing networks are becoming more and more deplorable, all of which show that the sector is in huge trouble. And let's just say, please, that the Orbán system has destroyed this sector over the last few years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But since it's good driving, they'll figure it out.]] Here I could give you the warning example of Debrecen, because there are three Debrecen people sitting in this room right now, if all is true, when, in downtown Debrecen, one of the busiest streets, a 60-centimeter old 50-year-old water press burst out, and practically the whole street had to be rebuilt to make this thing work again. This was an almost unsolvable task not only for the waterworks' leaders, but also for the entire city's leadership, because they found a branched, tangled pipe network in the city that needed to be replaced. But we know very well that this is where it is now, although it has been rewinded, we had to break this whole thing once more, so that the professionals would pray that they could create a source of resources to rebuild this pipeline in downtown. The difficult situation of the service provider is also shown by the fact that there is absolutely no money to map even for Debrecen what is in this regard with the water utilities. And unfortunately, I have to say, this is not exactly an example of Debrecen. It is very interesting that the situation is so bad at national level that the exchange of a section could take place every 200 to 300 years according to their current knowledge, but the failure of older and now glass-fragile pipe systems is a regular one, so the absolution process, which takes place instead of the planned renovations, increases the losses of these companies in itself. We know very well that, given today's situation, about 8-10 water utility companies are in a state of bankruptcy, and this is quite clear as a result of government negligence and withdrawal. Lying cuts in the rent now pay a huge price, not just for these companies, but for the whole country. A conservative estimate of HUF 3000 billion is the amount that should now be spent suddenly for the renovation necessary for the safe operation of water utilities. The rate of malfunctions has increased by 50-60 percent in recent years, so in many cases network losses can reach not only 10-15, but even 30-35 percent, which also increases the losses of these companies. Revenues have fallen to 2009 levels, while costs are, of course, at 2020 levels. Over 10 years, material prices, energy charges have increased significantly and the forint has deteriorated. In 2013, the public utility tax was introduced, which I was talking about earlier, and the energy agency has to pay a supervisory fee already to the service providers. Of course, the government doesn't give them any money. I have to say, what the Orbán system is reaching for is going to be destroyed, something they're not stealing by accident, and it's going to fall apart. What I can say about the bill before us is that since it does not include how many facilities are affected or affected by expropriation, nor does it include the level and quality of the facilities to be expropriated currently providing the service, and why it is so important to introduce it now at all, so until these questions are answered, the Democratic Coalition cannot support the proposal before us. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-204	Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-06-09-205	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP, his group leader, Congressman László Keresztes, is coming now. Here you go. [[Lajos Kósa: The house rules...]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am often in a debate with DK, I will be, I have been, but I am very pleased to hear this speech from Congressman Varga. Mr Kósa, as rapporteur, tried very hard to get ahead of him, so that we should not talk about such serious system problems as the crisis situation of the entire water and public utilities sector, but that we should talk about this puffing that you have submitted as an individual Member with Mr Böröcz's subsequent accession. 'Cause it's like a serious system problem in the sector, Congressman, it's a bust. And by the way, I can tell you that what you have described, and what this proposal is about, is not, in itself, an unreasonable proposal; it is not a problem of that, but of what my fellow Member has already started to list. However, I was very pleased to hear from Madam Secretary. I was pleased to hear the Secretary of State say that environmental protection is important for the government, sustainability is important, she said that water is our life, our shared treasure, and that, by the way, Mr Hadházy also spoke about the protection of the drinking water base. Congressman Nacsa said that providing healthy drinking water is a fundamental right for everyone. I can quote the Secretary of State that the government is doing everything in its power to ensure the sustainability of water utility services, to protect water bases, to maintain security of supply. I would like to add then to what Mr Varga said, and I would add that I have talked about this problem many times not only in this parliamentary term, but also before that, as a municipal representative, I have faced the situation, the problems that those responsible for care are facing. I would like to say just a few specific numbers, and I think that it will certainly strengthen the direction that Congressman Varga has said. There are currently 65,000 kilometers of pipe network waiting immediately! renovation. By the way, I think that we should not be so unfair: so this is a serious system problem that did not start in 2010, but that has been with us for decades, but let us see what the government of Viktor Orbán has done. [[Lajos Kósa: Let's give an accurate number. 26 percent.]] Since 2012, the number of failures in the utility system has doubled, with a network loss of 25-30 percent. So they say in nice speeches, my fellow pro-government Members, that everything must be done to protect drinking water, but the network loss is 25-30 percent. 26 percent of network losses, yes, thank you very much for the clarification. They put the source missing between 1,500 and 3000 billion forints. I would point out here that it is not so much necessary to replace or maintain the entire utility network now, but rather to put between 1500 billion and 3000 billion over a 15-year horizon, which is missing beyond the resources currently planned. So there is a huge amount of money to be spent on the operation of the most important public service in Hungary over the 15-year horizon, and in addition, this huge amount of a thousand-billion-dollar scale is missing. I add, and I always say that this is not a lamentation of opposition representatives, but a calculation and estimation of the profession and municipal associations. [[19.10]] And then let's compare what they put into the budget if they need HUF 3000 billion over a 15-year horizon based on rolling development plans. How serious can we take the thoughts of the pro-government Members and Secretary of State when there is a reconstruction framework of HUF 1.5 billion in this year's budget and next year's budget? Let's compare this to the HUF 3000 billion. The utility grid is falling apart! This is one of Hungary's most important system problems today, Congressman, and then you will bring in such a small problem that concerns the situation of the sector, which, of course, is good in itself, but when will you finally face this problem, when do you intend to offer a solution? Do not offer us a solution, but tell Hungarian people how healthy drinking water will be provided in a 15-year perspective! I would add, Mr President, that, unfortunately, this is not just a problem, it is a problem everywhere, it is a common problem, by the way. So I would not agree to such a comparison that the situation in Hungary is worse, or in Europe, this is a huge challenge everywhere. This is also related to the fact that they will arrange for it to come from a tender source. What kind of tender? I spent years as a municipal representative, turning to all kinds of government factors, potentates and ministries to tell someone what kind of tender funds could provide thousands of billion forints for this basic task in addition to the disintegrating Hungarian utility system. I don't get any answers. Tamása Schanda sometimes writes to me every two months that they are already working on the case, and, by the way, the government of Viktor Orbán has been able to squeeze this much out of itself in connection with one of the most important systems problems, while we can say that the network is now falling apart at a exponential rate, that these amounts we are talking about are already in virtual reality, because they are growing year after year, this huge set of problems is swelling and the amount is increasing. And yes, what is the position of the companies? My fellow Member also said that the president of the Water Facility Association says that ten companies are looking for immediate financial assistance so that they can work. Alföldvíz, CEO of a large majority state-owned company, said in January 2020 that it expects a loss of HUF 1.7 billion for this year. Who and how, in what form will you save these companies? What if the Great Plain falls? What if the municipal or state-owned utility companies fall into line, Congressman? Actually, I'm not mad at you because you submitted a proposal that could be supported in itself, but why isn't the government acting? And that's why I'm actually talking to the secretary of state, I'm talking to the pro-government representatives, and you have a responsibility to the people of your own constituency with the answer to how drinking water will be sustainable, how to protect water bases if drainage and sewage cleaning will not be a problem solved. And I could tell you about the very serious problems in this sector. Forty or a few companies remain after your centralization proposals and measures, most of which are municipal owned. Companies suffer huge losses, municipalities have to pay contributions. I get a lot of requests from small town mayors that tiny little villages should pay millions of forints a year as a contribution. I have also faced a situation where, because of the destruction of a water base, or the destruction of a well, a mechanical engineering, they buy water in a small supply system more expensive than it is possible to pass it on to consumers because of the reduction of the overhead, so a certain amount of losses per cubic metre is created. Congressman Kósa, who will face this problem? You're the one who's talking about protecting the cost reduction. And who protects Hungarian people? Who protects the Hungarian drinking water base? Who protects our common treasure? How and who will face this problem? Because, excuse me, when we are faced with such a serious system problem, I find it very little that, at times, Secretary of State Schanda tells us that we are already working on it. They've been working on this for years. Madam Secretary, I have tried to ask for a sum in many forums, in many governmental bodies. There are rolling development plans. The person responsible for the service shall prepare for a 15-year period the technical content of which renovation and replacement works must be carried out, the resources that the responsible person can plan in the given area and the resources that are missing. I myself saw year after year that in Pécs, where there is a company called Tettye Forrás, there are 20 billion missing over the 15-year horizon, and each year was settled by the local government board by providing the remaining part from tender sources by the CEO. I'm asking the then even pro-government mayor what kind of tender source he is, and he's spreading his arms as a member of the County City Association, that he has no idea, and he completely agrees with me, an unresolved issue that the government hasn't wanted to face in years and years. How big is that, Madam Secretary? If they aggregate the rolling development plans, and here they estimate from 1500 to 3000 billion forints how much is missing in the 15-year horizon, exactly how much is this amount? And tell me exactly what sources of tender will be opened and when, Madam Secretary. Let us compare this huge problem with the magnitude of the overall amount of aid coming from different EU sources, compared with the magnitude of the thousand billion. I take advantage of this opportunity, and I would like to ask you about the answers of Secretary Schanda. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology is currently working on the water utility industry strategy, which ensures the conditions for the high-quality operation of water utilities, the necessary replacements, and the other, as well as the other strategies, pay particular attention to the use of innovation technologies. Madam Secretary, when will this strategy be completed? When will it happen, in consultation with professional participants, when a government figure sits down to negotiate with the representative and leader of the Hungarian Water Facility Association? When it happens, when they can at least get to the point where they can say that there is a huge problem, and that it requires a huge solution, which, by the way, I would add, is a huge set of problems that go far and far through government cycles. But I would consider it a huge step forward if the government could at least say that this calls for a solution. I have further questions for the Secretary of State; I take advantage of her being here, and we can ask questions. Three hundred and a few utility companies now have 40 or a few left after centralization. Can we expect or expect further centralisation of the sector? So you want to reduce the number of companies? In English: do you want to increase the minimum supply area or the minimum population equivalent, so that the supply can be provided at a company? What is very, very important is what several of my pro-government fellow Members have mentioned, and I may have misunderstood my fellow Member in this, but we would have a debate. We have a very strong position that this strategic infrastructure should only be public ownership, municipal ownership, state-owned. We can say that it is a matter of national security that, most importantly, the safety of drinking water should always be ensured. Now, I would add very quickly that, according to what you said, you are not insured now, but clearly you cannot privatise public works. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There is no such thing.]] I would like to ask you a very, very important question, honourable Members. At present, not only the utility as an infrastructure must be public property, which is very right, and I very much hope that it will remain that way, but also utility companies must be public property, so it must be state and municipal. I would very much ask you to confirm that you do not have a plan to change this, and you do not have a plan to allow private operators into the utilities sector. [[Lajos Kósa: Where did you get that from?]] I would ask my fellow Members, Mrs Secretary of State, my fellow Member Kósa or my fellow Member Nacsa to reassure me that there is no substandard plan for the government to bleed out the companies, that the hero saver will come after him, and that he will take over in specific areas of service. Please confirm that this crime will not be carried out. I'm very confident they'll do that.
u2020-06-09-206	I very much hope, Mr Kósa, that you will confirm this not only through an interrogation, but also in the minutes, and I very much hope that some of the questions that I have formulated will also be answered by the Secretary of State, and will provoke to debate Mr Kósa, Mr Nacsa and Mr Hadházy, and feel their own responsibility to finally start something with this system problem, and try not to move towards solutions that should have been done ten years ago, but also to put the problem honestly on the table, what a wide and huge system problem this is, which affects all Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-207	Thank you very much. I must respectfully draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur or author of this bill is not the government, but Mr Kósa. Madam Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, in the time frame available, you will say what you think, but the author of the law is the Member, who has otherwise applied, and as rapporteur, I am giving the floor now. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. What I have protected us from has happened, my dear Leader of the Crusades, but the fact is that I am the one who apologizes then, but this is a parliament. I'm sure you've heard of the fact that Parliament is not a place to talk about anything that comes to mind, but a house rule. House rules regulate the functioning of Parliament. When Members of Parliament take an oath, I start from afar, but I don't know where to start when we are dealing with such fundamental problems, they say that I will keep the legislation and keep it. House rules are a law. You should, too, especially as a faction leader. [[19.20]] The agenda of parliament and legislation is a binding thing, not a village forum. If what is being put forward is, namely, an amendment to a very small section of the Water Utility Services Act, then it is the agenda, and not the situation of water in the world, or the situation of water in Hungary, or the strategic design of the development of the water utility, or I do not know what it is. So, when you invite us as sirens to come to this debate, I would not recommend this to anyone, because it is another proposal, another debate, another preparation; moreover, Mr Group leader, on such a key issue, you are at all deprived of the possibility of participation by Members who have not come to this debate in the sure knowledge, but who might be here at once by the situation of the water in Hungary, who thought that a small amendment to the Water Works Service Act was precisely an amendment, which offers a solution to the disputes between public and non-state-owned providers, but who actually have a public service, as I said, there is 400-500 such situation, then we will spot them, because they might otherwise have something to say. For me, too, but the dilemma is that what you said would be very, very important issues on the agenda. It would not be fair to ask the Secretary of State, because she is the one with the framework, not the author. So it's complicated again, because Parliament's operation is still regulated by this house rule, and it can't answer a lot of questions, the time frame is limited. And otherwise, it would be completely unworthy of the whole case, because then it would not be possible to ask the fundamental question of how long the usus is, in fact never said, but it still prevails in the whole water utility service that Hungary uses its drinking water in the most wasteful of all European countries. Why? Because we provide water with drinking water quality for everything, while we know that we drink 3 litres of our 100 litres of drinking water, produced at a very high cost and irreplaceable natural resources for drinking water, and we use 97 litres for purposes that are unnecessary. We water the lawn from drinking water. We wash the car with drinking water. We'll wash the sewers with drinking water. So the sewage, because the flow of the liquid in the sewer must be maintained, otherwise if there is more than a certain amount of waste water in the sewer, then biological processes start in it, which, by the way, destroys settlement biology at sewage plants. Many times we perform services by using twice or three times as much drinking water to wash the sewers as the amount of sewage is, by the way. Is that good? Just because we're not ready for this, I have an opinion about it. Today, it is not possible for a single waterworks to work with specific costs such as, but many would choose if they could, and say that people, I deliver ten times the drinking water demand on an axle, and otherwise we wash the car with clean, but non-water quality water, water the lawn, wash, wash, wash, clean, use high-pressure water cleaners, etc. This is the use of clean water, drinking water and so-called gray water, isn't it? It is an open question, but today, as a fact, everyone concludes that 97 liters of 100 litres of drinking water are not used for drinking water, but for uses that do not require drinking water cleanliness. Here's to you, nation strategy. But I can tell you something else here that, not the Fidesz government, but the biggest investment volume in water utilities in the development policy of previous governments was the arsenic removal of drinking water in areas where Hungary's drinking water supply is arsenic. While we wanted to meet the standards set by the European Union here, it is clear that the EU's arsenic standards against drinking water are as low as they are because in determining countries people necessarily eat arsenic in the consumption of seafood that can only be reduced in drinking water because they cannot reduce it in seafood. But we don't have that, no one here eats seafood. So if you drink arsenic water for a hundred years, you don't consume as much arsenic as a Dutchman eats in 50 years. But we spent the most money on it. They can throw 63,000 kilometers here, and I don't know what they are, of course, that's the past, but no doubt, that's the money we could have spent on network renovation. The same key issue is that Hungary's environment, climate, Greta Thunberg, I don't know who this procedure is today under this rule that there is no leaking sewage. So the sewage burners are closed, you need to snort it. Also where it doesn't make any sense, where there's no industrial use. The land is large. So there are settlements where the size of the land of between 1500 and 2000 square meters is regulated, and we know that the construction of the canal is now very expensive, the maintenance is extremely difficult, because the density of the dwelling is not such that it can be solved while drinking water is not at risk. It could have been considered that today there are excellent technologies to ensure that leaking but treated waste water solutions can be undertaken or not. This is also an important question, just once more, it would simply be unfair for the whole case to be grinded down, and seriously to answer such questions, by the way, that the government is not prepared for this, because the representative of the government does not have a way of doing so, because, unlike you, the representative of the government has to comply with the house rules, because we Members of Parliament, of course, can ignore the house rules, because that is our rule, and the government has to adapt to that, so the President said. Asking the Secretary of State is timely in the hour of immediate questions and answers, not here. So you've raised a lot of important problems, but that's just to take into account the fact that you have to follow the house rules, so we can't get past this. A lot more questions I didn't ask at all, I suppose. Here, however, let me highlight an interesting connection that I know that this will be shocking - there are well-functioning water utility companies and service providers, and they are malfunctioning. So, in itself, if a water utility provider is loss-making, it is an important indicator, but it must be examined that it is loss-making because it has poor management or is loss-making because external circumstances are such as to make it loss-making. [[19.30]] The Debrecen Waterworks, which my fellow Member Varga apparently does not have much of an idea of, are actually struggling sometimes with pipe cracks. However, more is said about the quality of the Debrecen Waterworks: how much is the network loss, for example. Let's just say, let's not say profit right now, because the owner might have a say in how the operating data is going there. But the network loss, it shows the quality of something, by the way. The network loss of the Debrecen Waterworks is 18 percent. By the way, this is also very high, and this will lead us again to think that 18 liters out of 100 go somewhere in the network, but 18 percent of the metropolitan water companies are the best in Debrecen, and otherwise, in terms of water utility services it is among the best. The sectoral average is 26 per cent, but it comes together and here is a shocking fact that there is a water utility provider with a network loss of more than 50 per cent. A hundred liters of very expensive and irreplaceable drinking water is 50 percent going somewhere in the system. I'll risk that this company doesn't perform as well as the Debrecen Waterworks, where there's the best loss data, even this is high. Not to mention that even if we add that the Debrecen Waterworks cleans every litre of water consumed, so it completely cleans the water, I must say, my fellow Member Varga, that as a Debrecen, you could be proud of the performance of the Debrecen Waterworks and the performance of those working in it. And this has a little to do with the care of a good farmer, because it seems that at least the municipality or the trust holding company is not irresponsible when operating this system.
u2020-06-09-208	Dear House, I would like to answer one more question, just put it up by my fellow Member, and I will wait for him to listen.
u2020-06-09-209	I'm listening. No, no, I wanted to tell my fellow Member, Mr Mesterházy, because he asked me whether this proposal might even be eligible, but why now and what cases it concerns. With all due respect, I've been talking about this for a long time in a case. I must admit, Mr Speaker, that I cannot list all cases between 400 and 500. I know this is a mistake, and next time I'm trying to be complete, but I can't do this right now. And why now? I've been consulting with the Bureau, the ITM and the Department of Justice for a very long time, and, frankly, beyond one point, I said that kids, it's a small thing, and I'm going to present this. I am no longer waiting for any European water directive, and I do not know what it is, because it will never work. I know you can say what László László Keresztes said, "Chip-cup," or something like that, but believe me, to the voter who was faced with having his house built, he wants to tie it to the canal and drinking water, which is in front of his house, he knew that there was a waterworks in Debrecen, but it turns out that the owner of the wire today is a company that bought this section from the liquidation process of the original construction company for 3 million forints, and he tells him, of course, tie it up, mate, but the wire is mine, I'm not a public service provider, and 50 million for you and the housing community. And we're going to collect an annual fee of 5 million forints. Otherwise, it would be 300,000 forints what the Debrecen Waterworks ask for for the service. You can say that to me, a few inhabitants of LMP and a few million forints don't count, but the truth is, I didn't think I was fed up at the time, but I didn't think I was going to wait any longer, I was going to present it, and I was going to consult with government staff. After all, thank you for the ITM's help, the BM's help, the Ministry of Justice and the industry, because, for example, frankly, I wanted to apply the expropriation rules for real estate, but they told me to write another one, I agreed. Chop-chop, and, of course, no one from Fidesz wants to privatize water utilities and water utilities. The opposite happened. We tried to buy the systems that were privatized earlier. Anyone who assumes such a thing about Fidesz is completely unknown to Fidesz politics and principles. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are quite certain that water is a key resource [[The president's ringing again.]] and once again, let me stress that I am quite certain that, sooner or later, the debate that you are asking will have to take place in Parliament. I'm not going to be the author of that law. But if I have an opinion about it, it might be my point of view. Once again, I would like to ask you to support this really not very large, but it is an important proposal, and if possible, let us talk about what is going on with water. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-210	Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-211	I'd like everyone to follow the time frame. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman Nacha, KDNP, two minutes. [[Zoltán Varga: That's not true.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. What Mr Keresztes said at the end of his speech, we fully agree, and that I should join Lajos Kósa: KDNP does not want to privatise any aquatic public works if you have already confirmed this from Fidesz. There is no such purpose. You began your speech by agreeing with your fellow Member, DK, who said exactly the opposite. So you didn't agree with yourself at the beginning and at the end of your speech. He said that Congressman Varga asked: is he a good owner of the state or of the municipality? He said no. Is the water utility in the right place at the municipality? He said he didn't. Is he in the right place at the state? He said he didn't. And do you know why this happened, Mr. Crusade Leader? Because what happened before 2010? 190 public companies have been privatised. There's been a robbery-privatization in this country. They sold Budapest Airport, Postabank, MOL shares, Antenna Hungária, MÁV Cargo, Metropolitan Water and Channel Works, and I could list 190 companies. Robberyprivatization took place, and Ferenc Gyurcsány and his friends became rich and therefore did not become national-owned. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-06-09-212	We have increased national wealth by one and a half times since 2010, precisely thanks to the policy that we want to increase the community's wealth and not sell it out, as the socialists and the pro-Gyurcsány have done. Exactly the opposite, and we will never sell out these companies. We're the ones who bought it back. We have spent huge resources to get back the companies at Ferenc Gyurcsány's friends and the companies at their foreign partners back into community property. That's our goal, not to sell it out. Once again, 190 companies. Two thirds of the state's assets are gone, so you've become a private asset, Congressman. This is what you first agreed with, and then I'm glad that in the end we ended up on one page or one side, that it's important to keep the utility services in national ownership. By the way, the reason they've had 16 electricity and gas price increases in their time is because they sold these companies. When Ildikó Lendvai said that I said it slowly, but it was raised sixteen times. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-213	Congressman Varga, DK, two minutes. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I really have no response to my fellow Member Nacs for two minutes. [[Gergely Harvestó: That doesn't make it true.]] Basically, whenever we listen, he always says the same thing. This disk's ripping, this disk's ripping, it's getting crooked. Sometimes he slips up, but that's another question. About Lajos Kósa: the fact is that we sat on the same body of representatives for a long time, and it was always a refreshing spot to listen to his raving ideas. I didn't know I was gonna miss you so much, and now you realize how good it really is to hear it, Congressman. Basically, you're the one who called us to account for the house rules, and then you talked about colonial biology, arsenic standards, the Union, everything else. It seems to you that the house rule is a hypothetical suggestion. The other one. You're wrong. I'm standing next to the Debrecen Waterworks. They're the good guys in this story. They're the ones who are struggling with your government's austerity. Because of the lying reduction in the rent, because the Debrecen Waterworks can't replace the old, old asbestos cement pipes downtown, praying that there won't be another pipe break, there won't be any need to reboot Trap Street, Kossuth Street. Yeah, in this story, the Debrecen Waterworks, just like the other municipal waterworks, they're the good guys. 'Cause you guys are practically shutting down these companies with your lying rent cuts. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the company in Debrecen suffers just as much as all the others. He's in exactly the same agony. It will be exactly as ruined if it stays this way, because it cannot improve, otherwise it cannot carry out those mandatory maintenance, its specialists will leave; if all is true, you will be looking for a CEO, I don't know how long it has been. Tell me that's not true.
u2020-06-09-214	Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-215	Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz! [[19.40]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The concept of the utility includes a lot of things, including the water utility, just to save myself here in the regular debates. I'd like to talk a little bit about utilities. I believe a lot of things, Congressman, but the truth is, it's a little more complicated than that. In the period 94-98, under the first socialist government, a large number of companies were privatised, and there were serious problems, and it is also true that some of the utility companies were sold after 2002. Now, I'm only telling you this because between 2002 and 10, according to official data, these Western companies made a profit of HUF 1040 billion, so that you sold a significant part of these utilities to these companies by promising them a guaranteed profit of 8-12 percent, and I would add that these companies did not otherwise develop the network and develop the infrastructure for any utility service. So you sold these utility companies at virtually relatively low prices, guaranteed these foreign companies, in most cases foreign companies, a very serious profit, so that, by the way, foreign companies actually didn't spend a penny on long-term development. From now on, of course, to argue about what would be needed, because obviously there is a need to develop the utility network, and I think it's a shame to take it in this direction. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-216	I would have waited to present the proposal, but since Mr Lajos Kósa submitted it, I joined him. I think it's a good proposal, and it solves a lot of people's problems, which I think we should pay attention to. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-217	Thank you very much. Congressman Mesterházy, MSZP! Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kósa, I did not ask in ironic terms what I asked, and there was no picir or attacking tone in my voice; I would simply have been curious about something to answer, that if you said that if I went up to the I don't know what website, I could look there, or if you say, please, of course, ask the Ministry in writing, and they would list to me the examples on which you submitted or on which you base this submission. I do not think that there is any problem here that a Member who is not an expert on the subject would like to have more knowledge and more information in a parliamentary debate and in a comment, so that his group, when it comes to talking about this issue, can propose in Parliament what kind of voting behaviour it should be. I know that you do not need this, but you always say that we hope that you will support it; I took this call seriously, and I wanted more information about it. That's one of them. Two, the secretary of state, if I recall your scientific degree, is a habilitated, excellent professional authority. I suppose, Mr Kósa, you know the house rules, as well as the secretary of state, you can press a button, so you may not be able to put a question to the government, and not to you, because you are a non-governmental actor, because you have been relieved of it, and you are sitting there, if you want to ask her something, you do not need to speak for the lady, she can speak for herself, and if she thinks she is involved in the debate, she will press a button and participate in the debate, regardless of what kind of author of this proposal you are. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-218	I would therefore ask you not to prevent the Government from taking part in the debate, because, where appropriate, opposition representatives would also be interested in it. And I didn't even tell you about the caps. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-219	László Lóránt Keresztes, Leader of the Group, in two minutes! Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking about taking the oath. Mr. Congressman, I took an oath to serve the Hungarian nation, and it is natural that we must abide by the legislation, and I thought that I also complied with the house rules, and the Secretary of State spoke very correctly about these very serious system problems, as Congressman Hadházy, Mr. Nacsa, has said about these problems. I think that all of us, including you, Congressman, have the task of finally getting these questions before the Parliament. You've started, you've agreed to this, and I think it's very right that you've started, and you may admit that there are problems here. I believe that this is one of the most serious system problems affecting all Hungarians. Congressman, I refuse that some people are not important to us. I have said that this proposal alone is very narrow, I do not know what kind of language I have used, but I have said that it is an important proposal in itself, which is, of course, eligible. At the same time, it is our job to deal with these issues, these problems. Congressman, in ten years, you have not made such a proposal before the Parliament, so that such a comprehensive strategy can finally be drawn up by the Parliament, and that the mapping and resolution of these huge system problems should start. However, I am not going down to the point where I say that the whole Hungarian population is not important to you, because I think that starting to carve with each other at this level will not lead us forward in solving these problems. I do not remember exactly, Mr Kósa, but since I have been a Member for two years, I have presented these problems to Parliament three or four times, and I have tried to propose a resolution to start discussing proposals concerning the water utility system, the crisis situation in the water sector. Every time I submitted it, your fellow factions stopped us from starting a debate here. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I will now take you up on that, Mr President, and let us present together a proposal to bring this debate before this House, and let us begin to talk about it. I am glad that you have an opinion, and I hope that the others will have an opinion, and I hope that we will finally learn something from the strategy that has been being prepared for years and offers a solution. Answer me, Congressman, are you willing to put together a proposal like this before the National Assembly, that at last you will present them to the Parliament.
u2020-06-09-220	We can start a debate on important issues. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-221	It is up to the representatives of the people who have asked for a normal word to speak. Congressman László Hajdu, DK! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Mr. Louis Kósa! I would like to make a presentation, or I hope to speak to it. Either I understand the bill before us correctly or I misunderstand, and that's why I'm asking for the floor. This is what we're talking about. That 400-500 is a little suspicious, but if it is 400-500, then I agreed that there are some settlements in great danger here, because we're opening a gate here. I don't know how much information the Vice-President of the Group, sir, is provided, but Budapest's water supply is provided through kilometers of land from the direction of Csepel and from the north, and passes through private property, undivided common property, ownership of companies, municipal property and state property. On this pipeline system, if this law is so adopted, it is possible that, in addition to paying Budapest an unconscious large amount of wired money to the various owners, it will be possible to open up an additional rent obligation, as they said that they could not rent or tie it up. But there is also the danger that we have abolished the Budapest and its agglomeration law, which guaranteed Budapest this pipeline, its water supply, but with the end of the Budapest and its agglomeration law, this opening of the gates, which this little law is about, will mean that the owners will appear in the capital, because the company serving the capital belongs to the capital, the operator of the Budapest Waterworks. This problem is increased by the fact that the water base is located in different settlements, 20-30 kilometers from Budapest, where it receives good quality drinking water from Budapest's tentacles wells, there are different technologies for this, through which Budapest has one of the best water supply. Csepel comes from other settlements in the same way. So this is the possibility of the landline law, that, right, this is whose property the trail belongs to, and it might be tied to this by not paying for utility development, because the other gate, that opens up the possibility that the owner may be, or may request expropriation, and from this point on he will not pay a public utility contribution, because he is the owner of that pipeline, going through them; perhaps this is not in the landbook, as he mentioned in the proposal, guided by it, but we can even acquire it, today there is much that can be acquired from power. This is one of the dangers, so there is a very serious threat to Budapest's water supply. So there are 6,000 kilometers of wires in Budapest, of which 1,800 kilometers is outside the administrative border, and many settlements around 70 are affected by its water supply. [[19.50]] The same is the case at the ÉRV, at the Vác waterworks, there is the same danger if this law is passed, and there is even more danger than Lake Balaton, where we have also abolished the Balaton Act, which guaranteed Balaton this certain right of the pipeline, so if we also take seventy-some settlements near Lake Balaton, because there are also property conditions in different places, and because the law on the pipeline also applies to sewage, we are faced with a double problem, because the problem of the settlements in general is that the pipeline is passing through our settlement, we want to tie it to it, if it is already going here, we tie it to it. If the capacity holds, yes, but with a developmental contribution. Now, with this expropriation, trailing system, which is in the proposal, I see a very big threat to the future. I must say that this law, if not negotiated, will be available by court, because there is a law that these water supply security will be put in danger. I would like to mention that there are settlements near Budapest, for example, Érd, which receives the water supply from Budapest 100%. But so are Budakeszi and Budaörs. I don't know how many kinds of property these things are. Budaörs has a three-sided feed, it goes on state property, private property, a lot of things. If the law empowers and encourages people, it opens up a business, and this is a great danger to care for settlements, including Érd, Budaörs, not only to Budapest; and in the case of Lake Balaton almost every settlement, because it is a regional waterworks that provides the water supply of Lake Balaton, and in the same way the sewage supply. You gave us a professional briefing here, Deputy Group Leader. The truth is, it's true that the sewage smells like you said because the rainwater is not allowed into the sewer. If the precipitation water was released, it would be diluted, and that would not be the case. Only then should precipitation water be cleaned at the sewage treatment plant, together with wastewater, which may be about three or five times the cost. The operation would not survive this, so in every settlement, including Budapest, this has been the case for several years, it is not possible to connect the precipitation water. The old ones are obviously going into the sewers, but I can't right now. One more thought and I'll finish it. Where there are waste water treatment and sewage treatment lines, they also pass through state-owned properties and pass through private properties. So it's the same with waste water treatment plants as with water-gathering bases, that these wires will go through different properties. We are creating a debate here without any study, because I believe that this was not in agreement with the regional waterworks and they do not have their contribution, but may not even be aware that we are debating this today. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-06-09-222	So we're launching a very large mine with this law. I think that anyone who has spent 30 years in the water and sewage trade, like me, knows precisely that if someone votes for this, it also throws a huge business into these settlements. You can't support this. Thank you very much. [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak up? [[Lajos Kósa: Yes.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Kósa, as rapporteur, how he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-09-223	Here you go. Mr. President. Dear House, I would first of all like to answer my fellow Member Hajdu, who at the very beginning correctly asked himself whether he understood the law correctly or was in some kind of misunderstanding. From what I can tell, you've misunderstood. It is not that anyone can initiate an expropriation procedure for a water utility facility on the grounds that they pass through the land and do not have any land register privileges, whether it is a right of service, a right of use or anything. It's not like that. The right of expropriation arises only in the case of a State, a municipality and a service provider with such ownership. So this doesn't open any business, it's obvious. So only the state can start expropriation, only the municipality, and only the service provider, no one else. On the grounds that private ownership is also affected by the pipeline, no right of expropriation arises. So we don't have that kind of danger. Furthermore, the settlement of expropriation is only an ultima ratio, a final solution, since the law allows the operator to agree with the owner of the privately owned water utility under normal civil conditions and conditions. By the way, most of the time, that's the case. The smaller part of the agreement is where there is no way, no way, and the solution is my suggestion that only the state, the municipality or the service provider can take the initiative. First of all, we need the public utility rating of the Energy Office, and then we can start the expropriation procedure that I developed in the rules, of course in consultation with the ITM staff and asking for their help. So the danger you're saying is simply not. I am not expecting a mass now because this is not likely to start expropriation procedures, but it is about putting the public interest in a more favourable position by virtue of the power of the law, in a deal that is about the provider, the owner, and they must agree on how the service provider performs its activities in a non-State or municipal-owned establishment, which is not owned by the service provider. So this danger really doesn't exist. Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to say one more thing to the leader of the group that he cannot take my word for it by presenting the government's strategy on water, because that is completely absurd. At the same time, I have some idea, because as mayor of Debrecen, I have dealt with this issue for 16 years. It is a pity that Congressman Varga has gone, and I really appreciate that he has missed my company, his, and even Mr Varga's attention to everyone, because he can make very cheerful minutes, especially with the performance of the aluminium cap. He performed it several times in the municipality of Debrecen, and we all had a good time. But the thing is, you know the Debrecen Waterworks and the trust holding company are looking for a new leader. The reason for this is simple, Mr Ányos, who is an excellent director, has a good personal relationship with them, and he was indeed the president of the Association of Water Utilities for a long time, but he simply retires, so the municipality actually started looking for another leader a month ago. That's the prosaic reason. So I have failed to expose the great conspiracy to my fellow Member Varga. [[Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes: This has been an important debate, Congressman.]] Mr. President. I'm really asking you to back me up if you can. Honestly, I've already asked you this, and I'm only asking you in the ether, which is a very small and insignificant regulatory area, in which, if I put forward a proposal, I'm not going to blow up at least an hour-long debate on issues that are not at all relevant. I'm trying. I didn't think I'd be creating such a debate. The debate was very important for citizens whose alternative is to pay $50 million for binding, and I agree with that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-224	It's a pity Mr. Mesterházy left because I would have answered him, but I will do this in private, of course. It's just that if you happen to be interested, you have to ask the Energy Department where they're not at the ITM, because the ITM doesn't know that, but the Energy Department knows about the issues. Thank you very much. [[20.00]] Thank you very much, Congressman. According to the house rules, the president cannot reflect on such opinions, but if he could reflect, it would be a very long debate. So that's all the benefits we've got from the house rules. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. General debate on the amendment of law and the amendment of laws relating to the change of maintenance of certain higher education institutions until closure. The government referral is T/10861. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-225	I would like to give the floor first and also welcome Secretary of State József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. We face dynamic changes every day that are generated by globalisation, technological progress, demographic processes and changing social needs. These global changes affect many areas of our lives, including education, including higher education. Complex higher education systems should now be adapted to economic and labour market needs, research and development and innovation processes at the same time. The aim of the transformation of higher education is therefore to establish an organised, effective and effective system in line with global changes and medium and long-term economic and social priorities. The path to our country's economic and social well-being is only through quality higher education, and the key words of future higher education are therefore competition, quality, performance and success. Following these goals, the government strategy "Training in Higher Education" was created, which already defined the development of a more effective higher education system as a directive in 2016. The strategy highlights the need to adapt the system to dynamically changing economic and labour market needs, social expectations and research and development and innovation processes. Our priority is to ensure that performance and good management in higher education both guarantee effective functioning and point to the future. It is important that there are strategic changes and changes in the field of higher education, which are for the benefit of universities and students without exception, and that quality higher education that emerges as a result of the measures is a guarantee of the rise of the whole country, the nation. The socio-economic environment of the institutions and the sectoral governance of higher education now raises challenges that can only be met in a much more modern model of operation. With restructuring, universities will be able to meet their own quality and market environment requirements and fulfil their responsibilities in line with them. The key objective of the model change is therefore to make the operating environment of higher education institutions more flexible, so that, in addition to greater autonomy, the managers of the institutions are given more responsibility, so that they can achieve greater performances with wider opportunities. By changing models, the institutions can adapt their organisational frameworks and human resources management to their specialities and competitive positions. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you again for your support, which has resulted in the transformation of seven higher education institutions. The transformation of the Hungarian higher education system is a challenge that we must meet with new ideas and innovations. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The Law providing for a timely change of model and the resolution of the infrastructure situation gives universities the opportunity to take a long-term development path, thereby reducing their vulnerability to state aid. The government and the institutions are therefore working together to make the transition as efficient and smooth as possible. Dear House, Among the six recently accepted model-changing higher education institutions, we have reviewed the situation of real estate in their asset management, based on the initiative of Széchenyi István University and the University of Veterinary Medicine. The University of Veterinary Medicine has stated that it needs a smaller proportion of a property than was previously planned, and Széchenyi István University does not require a property provided to it by the approved law, and has therefore initiated its removal from the law. We agree and support the requests made by the institutions, as this means that only the properties that are absolutely necessary for the operation of the universities will be owned. It is a good indicator of the state's responsible management of Community property, that it seeks to rationalise the real estate stock in a planned, thoughtful and institutional way. Dear Parliament, By amending the Higher Education Act, we have been authorised to join one of the most patinistic religious pedagogical institutions of the University of János Neumann, and the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár. The current bill ensures that the university owns the housing stock that is essential for teacher training, along with movable property. In addition, the current bill contains some codification clarifications and technical amendments in agreement with higher education institutions.
u2020-06-09-226	Dear Parliament, I would ask you to support once again the addition and clarification of previously supported and adopted laws. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, On 19 May 2020, the National Assembly decided to adopt legislative proposals on the model change of six universities, the University of Veterinary Medicine, the University of Miskolc, the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the University of Neumann János University, the University of Sopron, the Széchenyi István University and the creation of related trust funds. At the same time, these billings, laws, provide for property relief. Following the adoption, it started to take stock of the tasks related to the change of model, to clarify the necessary steps, to deepen in detail, and, as a matter of necessity, to deepen in every detail, in the smallest number of small rules during the legislative process, it is not certain that everyone will have the perfect opportunity every time. In the meantime, stakeholders also consider in many cases what is important and relevant for their future activities, and, as the Secretary of State has just indicated, concrete demands and requests have come from the respective institutions that, in the course of the asset allocation, they are about to and as they think the things of rational operation. Consequently, we need to make some clarification, and at the same time, when we look at what this bill is about, we see that it is essentially a technical clarification, a proposal which is even stylistically or spelled out in many cases, and it is definitely not a matter of conceptual structural issues, because the Parliament has already decided on it. For example, the issue of real estate under the number 88 of Mosonmagyaróvár, Pozsonyi út is that it is protected by monuments, and this must also be implemented in the law on national property. This is a typical legal task that we now have to do. [[20.10]] The same is the case, as the Secretary of State mentioned, that the scope of the asset allocation to Széchenyi István University is somewhat oversized according to the university, and that certain property needs to be removed from this portfolio of assets, will otherwise serve vocational training purposes. Speaking of the University of Neumann, Mr. State Secretary has also indicated that the maintenance rights of Petőfi Sándor Practitioner Primary School and Kindergarten would be transferred to Károli Gáspár University by succession. And we didn't even talk about what a multitude of technical, stylistic modifications we're dealing with. I'm just gonna say a few things to make a statement. At least 5 years has been included in the previous text, with the number Lawyers in charge of codification activities considered that it would be more appropriate if this were written. So, for example, there is such a change. Or one such that it will be replaced by the text, with the exception of the text, with an "supplier" being replaced by the word "supplier." I could tell you more, so we're dealing with a number of these, literally, legal changes. There is also a specific actuality of this law, namely that it is linked to another submitted bill, which we also discussed recently, namely the issue of maintenance change in connection with the University of Theatre and Film Arts. This will affect the current bill in so far as the annex to the 2011 Act on National Higher Education is also needed along this logic.
u2020-06-09-228	So I respectfully ask the fellow Members that, since this basically contains technical clarifications or changes, and certainly no longer matters of a conceptual nature, the conceptual debate that had taken place earlier on on the side of this, if possible, let us not start again, because I do not see much of this and support the bill itself. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Indeed, the package of amendments to the bill before us contains technical amendments and clarifies and guides the decisions already taken. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a question at a point in the concrete bill, and then, obviously, I also have to say a general idea about model changes. My specific question is the 7th. It would apply to Section 2 of the Higher Education Institute, where it concerns management mandates. What is denying, in the explanatory part, is that this amendment is necessary in order to appoint a sufficient number of executives in private institutions as well. I had lawyers and university experts look at this point, and no one could answer the question of how this reasoned sentence and the amendment of the law before us are related. I would expect an answer from the Secretary of State, because I think that a university leadership mandate is very important in the world of universities. Not repeating all the arguments I have already made in the conceptual debate, and not bored with either the House or the Secretary of State, Professor, with what we have discussed several times with each other, but I have to say that, unfortunately, in the example of the University of Arts, I can show that those proposals and my reservations about the form of foundation and this type of foundation seem to have proved to be true in practice. I would like to quote from the letter sent to me by the University of Dramatic Arts, which says that when we discussed them, we met with Minister Lívia Pavlik on the afternoon of the parliamentary debate, who briefed us on the tasks that lie ahead. His answers to our questions have made it clear to us that neither university autonomy nor guarantees of the validation of expertise appear in the new model. Follow-up of the quote:. The specific professional aspects of the university are not adequately represented in the curatorium, and it is in question who will guarantee their validation. In our interpretation of university autonomy, it is only possible to ensure that the powers of the Senate are not undermined and that the rector remains appointed by open tender on the proposal of the Senate for a fixed period of time. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is a long letter, Mr Secretary of State, I do not wish to describe it here, but that is exactly what I was talking about in the debate of this law and in the debate of all the other universities that have undergone similar model changes. That is precisely why I have tabled my amendment, and I have repeatedly done it with regard to the University of Theatre, that in the Curatorium ex officio, by office, the academic elected leaders of the University, the representatives of the Universitas, since I myself, as the rapporteur of the Council of Europe for academic freedom and university autonomy and as a representative of the People's Party Jobbik, can do nothing other than to see signs. Mr Secretary of State here in his expo, he referred to the fantastic cooperation in which these proposals are being made. Secretary of State, I have this letter testifying to the exact opposite of what you said here in your expo, and I object to that. I object to this and expressed our solidarity with the leadership of the university on behalf of the EPP Jobbik and our indignation, because this is a clear attack on university autonomy and university freedom. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-06-09-230	I think that this is a precedent that shows very well that all the strategic objectives of a general nature aimed at renewing Hungarian higher education, which we agree with, will not happen in this way, unfortunately. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-06-09-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have argued on this subject on several occasions, as my better fellow Member said, because when the change of model and maintenance of individual universities came before us in a bill, there was more talk about both the situation of Hungarian higher education and the necessary innovation, all these model changes. In fact, in a general framework, we are going to have this debate again because of legal and technical amendments. In this debate, it is important to set out the objectives of all sides, and on what basis we create laws on Hungarian higher education, and why this journey started with the change of model. Since 2010, quality, competitive public education and higher education have been of paramount importance to the national government, because we believe that Hungary and the future of Hungarian people depend essentially on the success and competitiveness of the Hungarian education system. We know that Hungarian education has always been at the forefront of the world, Hungarian scientists born and educated in the Carpathian Basin, inventors, Nobel Prize winners have changed the world with their scientific discoveries, inventions and writings; we say no less: they have influenced the history of the world. We Hungarians were able to adapt to the challenges of the changed world a hundred years ago, when, thanks to Kunó Klebelsberg's education policy, Hungary started a large-scale school- and university-building program, thus establishing the economic development of the era. Such economic development and economic challenges need to be addressed now. Since 2010, our aim has been to build an efficient, competitive, talent-friendly, innovative public education and higher education system. CHAPTER XXI In a rapidly changing world of the 20th century, new, previously unknown challenges arise, to which the education system must also find the right answers. It is well known that Ferenc Gyurcsány and the socialists introduced tuition fees in higher education, indebted universities, and in public education they put 14 thousand teachers on the streets, closed more than 100 schools, and gathered more than 700 schools, with which the school ceased in 1000 settlements. In 2010, the national government inherited indebted universities, huge levels of unemployment and hopeless future-looking young people as a result of the austerity policy of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. I know you call these reforms, but let's stick to the word of austerity. [[20.20]] In the last decade, thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy, more resources and attention were also focused on the Hungarian higher education system. Over the past 10 years, many new university campuses have been renewed or built, and the agreement established by the Government and the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, on the basis of which we also renovate, expand or build completely new college seats, is one of the most important agreements in recent years. I think we are on the right track by building more and more college seats in university cities, where young people not only get affordable housing, but also a community experience through colleges. So I also encourage the Government, the Secretary of State, to continue this programme, not to stop the college building programme, to continue in the future, because it is very necessary for young people in the individualised world to continue their university studies in a community space. Compared to 2009, 2 thousand more students graduated in 2019 and 1,200 more teachers are present in higher education. At the same time, the Fidesz-KDNP government aims to give the graduates competitive, real knowledge, and not only the number of students should be high in themselves, but also the number of graduates. It also commends the quality of Hungarian public education and Hungarian higher education by giving qualified young people to the Hungarian economy, thanks to which the Hungarian economy has recovered and continued to grow over the last few years. We know that in the last two years before the pandemic, economic growth has been at 5 percent, and we even achieved this last year. Now, however, further development needs structural changes, a model change, if you will. Recognizing this, the Hungarian government created the,, the transition in higher education, the medium-term policy strategy in 2016, in which it expressed its intention and government support for the modernisation and renewal of Hungarian higher education. It has been proven that the former regulatory and organisational institutional system is more difficult or slower to respond to developments in the world, whether it is about increasing international demand for training, the use of innovations or the need for corporate cooperation involving new resources. Here in the House, for the first time, a few months ago, we discussed the maintenance change of the Corvinus University of Budapest as the first swallow of the new model, which was put into operation by the law as a public benefit foundation. The Corvinus University maintenance change proved that the operation of the public benefit foundation was successful and functional, which served as a model for other higher education institutions as well. On 19 May 2020 we decided here in the National Assembly that six further higher education institutions, the University of Veterinary Medicine, the University of Miskolc, the University of Moholy-Nagy Art, the University of Neumann János University, the University of Sopron and the University of Széchenyi István University, will be authorised as Parliament to set up trust funds for the government as well as to provide for the asset allocation of universities and foundations. Instead of the safe but slightly limited areas of public care, they have a competitive perspective of development, which requires adaptation, change of perspective, bold innovations, performance and cooperation skills at the universities in question. At the same time, public engagement will also be put on a new footing, as it will become a partner and a customer. I think that this is a huge opportunity for universities and higher education institutions, but the possibility always involves responsibility. Greater autonomy, flexibility and the import of innovation are also a major responsibility. I will ask Mr Secretary of State to monitor this responsibility in the next period, to monitor how these higher education institutions can exercise this greater responsibility, because they have been given a great opportunity, with which this responsibility comes. I think that these processes are in a positive direction, but we must always look at how they can handle this opportunity as a good farmer and what they do with the responsibility they have. I think that the role of partner and customer is better suited to the state, that it can put this model on a new basis, that it can serve the real XXI. It can adapt to the changes in the international situation in the centuries, fit into a range of competitive universities that can be found throughout the world, either in the Southeast Asian region, Western Europe or North America. I also think that the current bill, as we have talked about this change of model on numerous occasions in the last few months here in Parliament, provides only the framework for this, contains technical, legal clarification, amendment and clearly resolves the issues of ownership and asset allocation that arise. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-06-09-232	As the model change as such has been supported by us for all the higher education institutions that have been brought here so far, we can also support this framework and the legal clarifications that are directing it. The KDNP fraction therefore supports this. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-06-09-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last few minutes and hours, a very long discussion was heard from Lajos Kósa, Lőrinc Nacsa and my fellow Member Böröcz about the fact that anyone who thinks that Fidesz would ever want to privatize water utilities does not know the policy of Fidesz, because you are increasing wealth. I began to think that this statement might not have been hasty, because in this current bill and in this model change, the opposite is happening, it is privatisation. So the state renounces its own assets, the state renounces its own spiritual values, and subjugates this into a quasi-private foundation. I also see that while there is a mindless centralization in public education, here, in higher education, they suddenly took a completely different direction, privatised and decentralized. I believe that your intention is often determined by the underlying interests, and probably in this case it is no different. It's very clear that so far, any university leader has been asked, and it turns out that there was no fair consultation. So I don't understand exactly what you were talking about when you said that after a very long preparatory work, you had a fantastic result. As I understand it, perhaps the fifth amendment to this proposal has been made by Corvinus, and all other universities have already made many amendments. So it was so well prepared that in months it was necessary to touch this law for the second, third or fifth time. However, on the part of every university leader, at least the opposition representatives, they receive information about the lack of time, the lack of consultation, the ministry was not open to university proposals, and each criticism, either in this sense, ends with comments from the organisations or persons managing the university, or even student organisations, that this will damage the autonomy of the university, that it will not be ensured and that it can be guaranteed that the work can be carried out at an appropriate professional level, that the autonomy of the university will be damaged, and that quality and efficiency cannot be guaranteed. If so, Mr Secretary, I do not understand exactly what you are talking about when you are talking about systematic discussions and efficiency gains. In fact, there is a university, which has already been mentioned here, the University of Acting Arts, which, apparently, received this opportunity as a punishment, because they immediately attacked the university in various press organs and political arenas. It's an old technique: if you're going to beat something up, you're going to attack the person quickly so that he can't focus on other aspects of his own defense. It's a Bolshevik tempo for you, by the way. But it is quite clear that they are making a scapegoat out of the University of Dramatic Arts, while my fellow Member Nacsa is talking about the fact that today it is possible to announce the success of this change of model in terms of Corvinus University. I would be more careful with this announcement of results, my fellow Member, since we are still too close to this transformation. Effectiveness can, of course, be measured by the international achievements of a university, but I would not expect even from the opposition benches that, immediately after any change of model, say, six months or a year, the results of this can be seen. [[20.30]] Nevertheless, we continue to say that this change of model is not a good direction, a correct direction, and it is unacceptable for you to intervene in university autonomy, as you privatise these universities, and as you try to determine, according to the taste of your mouth, what, how and how you should be taught in these institutions. And at the University of The Arts itself, it's perfectly clear, the angle is out of the bag, they just want to regulate the university. If I have read this letter correctly, which has been sent to all the Members, then there is no guarantee that the leaders, students and representatives of the university will be able to enter the board of trustees that will then manage the university. If that's the case, Mr. Secretary, I don't know what you're talking about. Then how can they talk about increasing efficiency, professional quality and quality here? If, at some point in an art university, freedom is restricted, if creativity is limited, if students or teachers or leaders who study there are intimidated, then it will certainly not result in efficiency gains, and if university citizens or academics cannot speak into their own fate, then there will certainly be a loss of efficiency and not a rise in quality.
u2020-06-09-234	Therefore, as has been the case, the MSZP fraction will not support this proposal in the future. We believe that this has not been sufficiently thought-out, that it has not taken sufficient time for this transformation, and that no cooperation has marked this fundamental change process, which fundamentally rewrites the structure of Hungarian higher education, and we think that, in such hasty doing so, we can certainly only get the wrong result. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-06-09-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. Dear House, Mr Secretary of State reiterates his arguments for the new model with respectable consistency, and now I do not know what number, at least for the fifth time here during the spring session, but at least for the fourth time, the Commissioner, for the fourth time during the spring session. I would not repeat the arguments; I must continue to say that the model that you are proposing, this very strange half-mask, half-state solution, does not meet the interests of higher education, nor the conditions of academic autonomy, nor the conditions for predictable, efficient and transparent public spending, this is not a good solution. The things you often refer to, greater autonomy, greater freedom, greater responsibility, these with appropriate legislative solutions could be thought and achieved while maintaining state reserve. The elements that go beyond this, the foundational technique, this quasi-privatisation, and this pose a number of risks to the institution both in terms of damage to university autonomy and towards the community in terms of predictability and transparency and accountability. I respect Mr Nacsa very much, and he is very consistent, and I am not going to have the debate with him on governance before 2010, but I am asking him to discuss with our fellow Members, who were still Members, what he had received, let us say, not for such a generous transformation of the government at the time, but for much smaller higher education transformations. After all, it is a bit schizophrenic to condemn the reform of education and then to stand up for a reform of the higher education institution that the most liberal Minister of Education at the time dared to think in secret, because he knew that he would not go through Parliament. I must say, therefore, that we do not agree with the basic concept itself, which I wanted to clarify. What is the concrete bill about? Very few things compared to that. First of all, I have an argument with Congressman Pósán that we have to touch him here because of terrible unforeseen circumstances after four weeks, yet one has been accepted, if I count correctly, but six legislative proposals may need to be touched again. Then you put forward a bill to make the model, now it turns out that the model will be a little different than you once imagined. I think that's all there is to it, but it's not legal. If these laws had not been brought into line, but perhaps I would have discussed them in advance with the stakeholders, because Mr Pósán said that they had found out that there was something else needed in the institutions, I understand that, but if there had been a discussion with the stakeholders, if there had been a substantive professional and parliamentary debate, if they had listened to what the opposition representatives were saying in the parliamentary debate, then it would have been possible to get away with the fact that they would now have had to feed on the same law again. To put it mildly, it is not elegant to change on the move, while the seizure work is already taking place in the institutions in order to comply with the new conditions and mode of operation with a very short deadline. In general, I think that such a change of model should be preceded by years of preparatory work, and not at the level to which it is always referred, but that there was a concept, a plan and a great idea, but should have left sufficient time for decision-making and proper time for implementation in the specificity of legislation and regulation for each institution. But, of course, it's better to correct it than to leave a flawed rule. After all, I am obliged to point out that we continue to be particularly concerned about the part of the regulation which allows for an exception to the prohibition on the disposal of state assets by the ecclesiastical institution, where appropriate, the Kecskemét teacher's apology, not in the case of its normal name, i.e. in the case of the Kecskemét pedagogical faculty. We believe that in the case of national assets, especially such important educational assets, it would be justified to maintain the same commitment and the prohibition of disposal as the state normally insists on doing so if, say, it transfers assets to municipalities. We believe that, by the way, there is no need for the churches to receive exceptions from this point of view, that they should be subject to the same rules as everyone else, and that is the goal, and that it would be useful for these educational buildings to continue to be used as educational buildings. I suppose that's the intention today, but in 5, 10 or 20 years' time, it won't be as clear as this. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I do not want to talk too much about what is going on with the University of Theatre, and we have had a debate on this which was less detailed, but politically well-exposed last week. I would not quote this once again, and I would like to point out that we cannot support this proposal just because it introduces this change in the list of higher education institutions. And yet I have to say, if we are evaluating higher education policies here, that the situation is, if I have calculated correctly, that I may have miscalculated, then 31 state higher education institutions were included in the 2005 Act, and in the current Act there are a total of 18, and some of it is merged, but a significant part of it is not merged. State higher education institution. Don't look at me like that, Congressman, count it. State higher education institution.
u2020-06-09-236	There is a reduction in state higher education, a stealth privatization of state higher education, and we still cannot support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. [[20.40]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Rector, Mr. Secretary. I would refer back to the Member, Mr Gergely Arató, who was before me, and I agree perfectly that the stealth privatization of state higher education is indeed taking place, and, by the way, we have just had a debate on the water utility, and it is so obvious that this must be understood by the government claiming to be national. In fact, I do not wish to reopen this debate either; we have had a lot of opportunity to discuss these conceptual issues in the past, and I would really only respond to what Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction, and what Mr Nacsa said on behalf of the KDNP. Here again, the concept and the political communication element was that it was a change of grades in higher education. We can talk about degrees, but what we have seen in the last 10 years under the government of Viktor Orbán shows how much damage he has done to higher education. We can say that the government has virtually declared war on scientific life, declared war on higher education, we see astounding cuts in student numbers, and we see how the number of students entering higher education is decreasing. In recent debates, I have already said that while in Hungary a university assistant, a professor with a scientific degree, earns less than a charger, I think it is a shame to talk about efficiency, and to talk about the government taking the development of higher education seriously. So for the time being, our faction has a very, very critical view of this particular shift in gear. This model too, I repeat, I do not wish to reopen this debate, but this model, we believe, is pointing in the wrong direction, reducing equal opportunities, is a serious attack on university autonomy. But in fact, what I would like to use this speech for is to ask Mr Secretary of State a question. A few weeks ago, during the debate, I had already asked a question about what kind of austerity measures affect universities. Then you said, Secretary of State, that you regret that the sector you run, represented, is also affected by restrictions on the corona virus epidemic and the economic crisis. You mentioned 23 billion forints, that the original plans said that they were withdrawing 23 billion from universities, and you managed, if I remember correctly, to carve down 8 billion, and then it came up specifically compared to the original 3.6 billion, for example, to withdraw 1.9 billion from the University of Pécs. I would like to ask you about this, Mr Secretary of State, how are these government measures and how they stand in the form of a written question, perhaps they have already reached you, and I have sent you with regard to the most important higher education institutions, what restrictions, what withdrawals are affected, what impact assessments have been carried out by the government in this regard. Is it true that the Chancellors didn't receive any prior notice of this? What will the consequences be, in particular? Because it is quite clear, by the way, that we have already had a brief debate here with Mr Péter Banai, on the budget, that if investments are postponed, if investments in concrete development are missed, it is also quite clear that it can be regarded as a austerity measure affecting higher education. Obviously, this alone will involve cuts directly, or even the inability to create new jobs. Not to mention, it is obviously extremely important that our defining universities are able to implement the right developments. So I would like to know specifically about this, where the restrictions on universities stand. I add that I think, or not only do we think so, but I also think that most responsible Members are also, that they are unacceptable, and that there will be insurmountable consequences if they take away around HUF 15 billion from universities in such a large scale. Most universities will not be able to manage this, and this is, in every respect, a huge blow to higher education in Hungary. Accordingly, we have already launched a petition in Pécs, and many people have already joined in protesting the restrictions and withdrawals affecting the university.
u2020-06-09-238	Thank you in advance for answering the questions. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-06-09-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We will now continue our work with two minutes' speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Thank you very much. I did not think that the division of labour would be to ask Mr Arato to answer the question of Mr Mesterházy, but that is what happened here. After all, Mr Arató immediately replied to the questions of privatisation raised, that the prohibition of disposal outside the churches is in the law, so the disposal of property is not possible. So you can't get out, you won't, you won't, you won't, or you won't, the university foundation, or you won't, the state, or the government, or the governing parties, are gonna throw away this property that we're talking about because there's a ban on disposal. That is also in the law, but I really thank the Member for answering this question to our fellow Member. The change of model does not mean privatisation at all. I remain in favour of my position, which we represented in the previous debate at the water utilities, we still represent it, there is a place for increasing and protecting Hungarian national wealth, and that is very right. However, it does not contradict this fact that, for example, we are used to DK's anti-church party attacking the church's assets by the churches, who carry out significant social public service and have significant social embeddedness, they receive the institutions in which they have been serving for decades, in which they will continue to serve in the coming decades, and, of course, all such wealth benefits, honourable Member, are bound to function. Now, when the Parliament voted on the transfer of property to churches in social institutions, it also linked it to the function: the church cannot open a mall in it or I don't know what it is, because it is there that it has received the wealth, the function: education, education, social care, health care and other public tasks carried out by the churches. So there's no privatisation. This is why we have increased Hungarian national wealth by one and a half times over the last ten years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-240	Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we've learned that higher education belongs to the ITM. This in itself shows that your education policy has failed, that they have been unable to face the real problems of education. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including Lőrinc Nacsa: Who was he distracted by?]] And they decided to try to dismember and hide these educational things with different wallets. You'd have to sit down and actually face the problems you're having. You are talking about a change of model, what opportunities this new system offers. Well, I'm sure the fallen mayor of Miskolc, who's been expelled by the voters, will now be placed at the head of the University of Miskolc. Are you sure this is the model change this country wants? You're putting fallen politicians into these foundations. It would be time for you to face reality. This politician has been expelled, and you are smuggling him back to the head of a university, my fellow Members.
u2020-06-09-242	This is not modern Hungarian education, this is not the change of model. Please don't take this country in this direction. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, Fidesz Group, in a two-minute timeframe. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'll just be very short and quick. Now I don't fully understand that we're going to appoint people to the head of a private university or foundation?
u2020-06-09-244	It was said to privatize higher education. They're state foundations, mostly state foundations. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy... Congressman, MSZP Group. Excuse me, Congressman, it's been a long day. Here you go. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Make that your biggest mistake.
u2020-06-09-246	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I continue to think that in this change of model, you really acknowledge what my fellow Member Oláh has said, that you have not been able to solve this problem, and yet it is difficult to think that when you are centralising everywhere, you are, interestingly, decentralizing here, on this one subject, and distributing this state wealth to various foundations. If it remains so state-owned and the state does everything, then there is almost no difference between the state-run or owned by the foundation, then what is the point of changing models? So if the state's gonna be able to talk the same way it's always been, then why change models? I think, fellow Members, that the reality is that there must be a lot of other interests behind this transformation. It will come out in time, but once again, to repeat, do not use these tools as a wrestling stick for different universities, because it is not in any way fair. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[No signal.]] Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak within the framework of our agenda. [[For signal:]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-06-09-247	Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Members present for their activity on this proposal. Yes, we are here for the fourth time on this subject, and now, in fact, compared to the model change proposals, so much has changed that we have come with certain corrections. That's right. It could be said that something has been wrong and that there is a mistake in the letter, and that is the subject of the correction, but I also think that if a working institution that is taking on a change of model asks for correction, we need to be open to that. [[20.50]] In a number of speeches, autonomy, university autonomy were interpreted, privatisation was interpreted, and it was also understood that we came here to the House in the death of a horse, without thinking about it. I'd like to answer every question. For the first time, I have proved with literature or, to say it, with a publication, that in the higher education institution system, the step in this direction, movement was involved in thinking, fora, and even an organization such as the Hungarian Rector Conference. At a time when you live and work as a university leader in this system, you try to implement very serious programmes, and when you encounter difficulties in implementing your programmes, you are inevitably preoccupied, thinking about how to improve our mechanisms. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] As a rector, I experienced all the beauty and difficulties of the university's leadership, and when I outlined this entire programme in the Presidency as President of the Rector's Conference, and later in public forums, we found some things. By the way, there was a very serious debate about university autonomy, because it is quite difficult to talk about university autonomy in a state system as originally meant by university autonomy, because, in fact, it was bound by a fixed number of people, so to say, we need to create something new, something good, something noble in universities. In the old days, university autonomy meant that there was a tribe fortune in universities. [[Gergely Harvesto: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt.]] I'm sorry, I didn't get it. It doesn't bother me at all. So there was a tribe fortune in universities, and there was a body that controlled them, but of course the rector was the number one leader. The chief management function of the Rector is also stated in the current Higher Education Act. Another issue is that in terms of management, the chancellor system came in a few years ago, which, by the way, has made the entire university system more economically sound. I would just like to point out that, yes, when the emergency with regard to the virus was declared, the Ministry of Finance turned to the budgetary bodies, including us, and abstracted some funds; it was indeed 23 billion for the first time. For the clinics, we managed to bring back the 8.6 billion, and for the other, I think, in the case of the withdrawal of the budget, which is a response to the virus situation, we have made our presentation, we go to the government, and within the framework of the re-launching of the economy and the stimulus package, I think that universities will be able to access the abstract source in a proper way. I would add that there are 240 billion funds in universities today, so there are no liquidity problems. Undoubtedly, some of the resources are targeted. Prep. Even when I was an EMMI State Secretary, I came up with a model change concept that doesn't apply to Corvinus, because Corvinus started and works on a certain real private university path, and everyone hopes it's a successful, but it's clearly a private university line. Now we are talking about the six universities and the seventh university, we are talking about a change of model, it's about the state foundation, and otherwise this state-established foundation is also receiving state aid for its operation. This means nothing else, not a privatization direction, but a decentralisation direction, there is a big difference between the two. Indeed, the maintenance role in this will be given to the board of trustees, and in this sense all the universities involved can function in this way as local governments. The number one head of the university will continue to be the rector, Chancellor or Director-General of Economics will of course work, but it will be decided by the board of trustees in cooperation with the universities. By the way, the money goes to the university. Here, too, a number of comments on the sale were made both pro and versus. I think it hasn't changed that if such a step were to take place at any time, it would only be able to provide the university with a source that could be used for its basic function. On a university, it was said in particular that there was not an appropriate consultation. It's always a relative concept of many or few. I'll tell you the facts, and then you'll decide if that's enough. Until the day of the submission, there were five discussions on the University of Theatre and Film Arts, there was a sixth one at the same time as the debate, but work continues at expert level. Undoubtedly, there was a great deal of time spent in the negotiations as to why the rector was not appointed; I explained it in detail the previous time. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] By the way, the rector's application is considered in substance by the Senate, it is written out by the maintainer, and when the tendering period is over, the Senate will establish a ranking and determine who the rector's candidate is, but the maintainer himself will submit it to the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic will appoint it. It's a private university, or let's just say, for foundation universities. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Foundation!]] This was and will be your maintenance obligation, so there will be no change in that. This is quoted in 7. § is deleted because after the change of model, the university leaders are also Mt. they will work in a regulated employment relationship and therefore they do not need to retain this function in foundation universities. What do we call fast? So when the concept is born, the various bodies will discuss it, and then the very important activity that brings together the specific model change for each institution, which is also a major activity at management level, and also at professional level. I think it's a serious process. The transformation takes place with a certain date, but as a process it has already started and continues after. There are likely to be corrections, but I think that if we really want good foundation institutions, we also need to be flexible about regulation. [[21.00]] In Hungarian legislation, thus in the current Nftv., there are indeed state higher education institutions and there are private institutions in this sense. What we are now creating, and in the direction we are going, there is another sign in the world, and obviously we will have to do that to make proper regulation, this government-related private university type with which the umbilical cord remains to the state, but it is significantly further away from direct intervention. I believe that, although you do not at least support this statement, it is a good direction, with a flexible regulatory system, that it can put our institutions on a different course of development. Maybe I won't tell you a secret that we'd like to go on this line. There are institutions that consider this direction, and of course, if you have the conditions, then we will. I hope that I have answered all the questions raised, even though they are not divided into individuals or speakers or Members, but I wanted to sum up the problem with this on all subjects. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-248	Even though the opposition representatives have declared that they will not support the proposal, I ask you to reconsider, and if you believe a little bit that Hungary needs a more dynamic higher education institution that uses science and innovation as much as possible as possible as possible, think about your decision. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on banning the placing on the market of certain single-use plastics will follow until closure. Government referral T/10862. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network.
u2020-06-09-249	First, I give the floor to Secretary Anita Boros, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary. Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government is indeed T/10862. The Parliament submitted a bill banning the placing on the market of disposable plastics. The Hungarian government is committed to the protection of the created world, as included in the National Creed of our Fundamental Law: we undertake to cultivate and protect the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin, to take responsibility for our offspring, to protect the living conditions of future generations by using our natural resources carefully. Sustainable development can mean nothing more than linking economic and ecological development processes, because none can actually work without the other. In this context, at the beginning of this year, the government adopted the climate and nature conservation action plan, which sets out the issues and measures that the government would like to address in particular, such as climate neutrality, green economy and waste management. Accordingly, we have also started working in the field of waste management, even if our lives have been significantly defined in recent months by the epidemic situation that we have all witnessed and, above all, we have focused on protecting the lives of Hungarian people. In addition to developing a number of other economic measures, we have also developed the necessary proposals to rationalise the domestic waste management sector. The domestic waste management system is determined by a number of factors, so if I may, I would like to put the ban on the placing on the market of disposable plastics in a slightly broader context. Looking back to the last 50 years of the domestic economy, we can see that our industry, our trade policy, our production capacity and our customs have changed. We are living our lives more quickly, and this is linked to a number of needs, resulting in an increase in waste production. Since the 1980s, production and municipal waste was still at 106 million tonnes in 1990, and as a result of economic restructuring, total waste decreased to 90 million tonnes in 1995, 69 million tonnes in 2000 and 18 million tonnes in 2012. Since then, this quantity has been roughly the same. At the same time, Hungary has done well in this area. For a decade and a half, the amount of waste generated has not increased, despite nearly double GDP over the last ten years. Retail municipal waste per capita is significantly below the EU average. While the EU average was 488 kg/person in 2018, only 78 percent of this occurred in Hungary. Among the different types of waste, agricultural and food waste and other economic waste decreased to the greatest extent between 2004 and 2016. In recent years, waste management has also undergone a major transformation. In recent years, there has been a shift to reduce the amount of waste generated, and it is most environmentally beneficial if only minimal waste is produced. So it also follows that our goal is to view waste as a value. The Hungarian economy must switch to the circular economy. This is a model in which, taking into account the life cycle of the products, no waste is generated that is not recycled in the economy in some form. In this system, products and packaging materials are not only manufactured, used and discarded, but also used in an economic sense to make the products of today a material for the future. This economic model is circular because, unlike today's, typically linear system, products are returned to production in the circular economy in the same or unprocessed form instead of a dumpster. Our aim is to enable the Hungarian economy to take advantage of the potential opportunities in the waste management sector, and to support Hungary's competitiveness by developing a new system of innovation, quality waste collection and processing, and to support our environment through a significant shift in waste management towards prevention, reuse and recycling. In Europe, 47 percent of communal waste is composted or recycled, which is data for 2016. However, the method of waste management varies from region to region. Today, waste disposal practices have almost disappeared in countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Germany or Austria. On the other hand, there is still considerable landfilling in Eastern and Southern European countries. The proportion of waste recovered in our material has been increasing since 2006. According to KSH data in 2016, this was 58 percent, and over the past decades there has been an increasing reduction in waste disposal in several countries, including Hungary. In 2005, 3859 tonnes of waste were deposited in our landfills, this amount or this value in 2018 was slightly more than 25 percent of all waste. Finally, allow me to say a few sentences about our EU determinations. The European Union has been very active in Member States' waste management over the past period, primarily due to different regulation and directive regulators. The most important of these is Directive 2008/98/EC on waste and repealing certain Directives, which sets different dumping targets for Member States. To mention only the most important things: the 50% target for preparation of municipal waste for reuse and recycling should be reached by 2020 by Member States, and 55 per cent by 2025 and 60 per cent by 2030 and 65 per cent by 2035. [[21.10]] In addition, under the Waste Landing Directive, Member States were obliged to reduce the landfill of biodegradable municipal waste to a maximum of 75% by 2006 compared to the 1995 baseline level, to 50 by 2009 and to 35 by 2016. And even a number that is difficult to meet and which presents us with new challenges, the amount of waste that can be disposed of up to 10 per cent by 2035 is reflected in the directive. There is also a second component of European Union law, namely: the European Parliament and Council 2018/852. Directive on the amendment of the original EC Directive on packaging and packaging waste. This Directive requires Member States to take a number of measures. Such measures shall be national programmes or similar measures, which shall be adopted, where appropriate, in consultation with economic operators, and shall aim to collect and make use of a number of initiatives already taken by Member States in relation to prevention. This Packaging Directive provides for a very strict recycling target for different types of waste, such as plastics by 2030. Finally, the problem of eliminating illegal waste must also be highlighted. A year ago, the so-called SUP Directive, such as the 2019/2004 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, entered into force to reduce the environmental impact of certain plastic products, the main aim of which is to reduce their use in the Union, illegally placed on its coasts or using EU terminology: to examine the composition of abandoned waste and, on this basis, to introduce measures limiting their use for the most frequently discarded products. On the coasts of the Union, it can be said that 80-85 percent of marine abandoned waste is a plastic product. Of which the ratio of single-use plastic to fishery lots exceeds 75 per cent. The EU rules aim to replace single-use products with sustainable and non-toxic reusable products and re-use systems. Therefore, in order for the Union to focus on products that are most polluting, the scope of the EU Directive covers only so-called disposable plastic products. As set out in recital 11 of the Directive, plastic single-use products can be produced from a variety of plastics. The Directive states that a single-use plastic product is a product wholly or partly made of plastic and which is not intended for it, is not designed or placed on the market with a view to being recyclable or recyclable during its lifetime when returned to the manufacturer or for the purpose of its original purpose. This means that all products which are recyclable or recyclable are excluded from the scope of the Directive. The directive also examines these single-use plastic products in such a way that there is another, more sustainable and affordable alternative, and, if any, has adopted certain restrictions. In fact, the directive makes single use of a variety of plastic products subject to different measures. Among these measures, we can find banning provisions which mean that placing on the market should be banned, there are provisions aimed at quantitative reductions, marking requirements, product requirements or the introduction of extended producer responsibility. First of all, allow me to draw attention to the fact that, under the directive, ear-cleaning sticks, cutlery, plates, straws, drinking sticks, sticks to be attached to balloons and holding them, including the structure fixing the balloon to the stick, food storage vessels made of expanded polystyrene, i.e. food containers, such as boxes, with or without roofs, intended for the immediate storage of food that can be consumed locally or transported, which is usually consumed from the dish, and can be consumed as ready meals, i.e. no further preparation, such as cooking, boiling. The Directive also prohibits drinking containers made of expanded polystyrene, including their caps and lids, as well as drinking cups made of expanded polystyrene, including their lids and lids. As I said, there is not only this one group of measures, but also a number of others, but it should be seen that in different groups of measures individual plastic products can occur several times. Of these, perhaps it is worth pointing out that separate collection methods should be introduced by Member States for drinking bottles with a capacity of up to 3 litres, including caps and lids. They should be collected separately for recycling under the Directive. By 2025, this quantity should reach 75%, and in 2029 it should reach 90 percent. The way in which Member States implement this separate collection methodology gives different examples of this: the deposit fee scheme or the relevant extended producer responsibility scheme can be introduced. Finally, on this subject, I would point out that these categories of measures have been included in the Directive with different deadlines, which means that Article 5 of the Directive, which provides for a marketing restriction, must be prepared by the Member States by 3 July 2021, so that all measures, laws and provisions of the Member States which comply with these requirements should be adopted. In fact, all other provisions, apart from a marking rule, must be fulfilled by 2023 or by 24 hours, both by us and by all the other Member States. As you can see, the waste management sector is now incomparable to a ten brains up to five years ago, as everything has changed, the composition of the waste, its quantity, the dumping behaviours and the EU standards have been tightened. So we must realise, in our view, that the time has come for a paradigm shift in this sector as well. We need to build a system that builds on the principles of waste value and where good waste management can prevent waste from having a negative environmental or health impact and is one of the drivers of the circular economy. We have developed four proposals along the lines of these objectives, waste generation and processing conditions, EU determinations, one of which is now being discussed. However, this is only one of the pillars for rationalising the waste management sector, as I said, there are three more. Together, they can only lay the foundations for change, so allow me to speak briefly about our future plans. I would do so only because the government has already discussed all the proposals at first reading, and because of the need for minor fine-tuning, we cannot now present the remaining three to the House in the spring session, but we would like to do so in September. Firstly, waste management is divided into two large groups in terms of waste production. One is municipal or communal waste and the other is treatment of waste other than that. From a waste management point of view, municipal or municipal waste is one of the most complex and the way in which it is handled is usually a good indicator of the quality of a country's entire waste management system, for example, in the preamble to the Waste Framework Directive. The challenges related to municipal waste stem from the fact that it is a highly complex and mixed waste, the waste is produced in the immediate proximity of the population, and the public is particularly interested in it. Therefore, the management of municipal waste requires a rather complex system. Countries that have developed an effective system of municipal waste management generally also provide better performance in terms of waste management as a whole, including the achievement of recycling targets, says this Framework Directive, which has already been referred to. Experience has shown that, regardless of whether the tasks related to waste management are entrusted to public or private operators, waste management systems can help to achieve a circular economy and that the decision to allocate tasks is often based on geographical or structural circumstances. Given the characteristics of other sectors of the economy, the portfolio considers that our waste management would be much more efficient if the two large segments, i.e. municipal and industrial waste, were to be concentrated in one hand. Certain waste management activities should obviously continue to be carried out by the State. On the other hand, it is also necessary to see that this sector is a highly cost-intensive sector and that more investment in infrastructure is needed to meet EU standards. As I said, in the long term, we will not be able to dispose of the waste, and to do so, we need to ensure that the waste is effectively selected and then recycled or recycled. [[21.20]] We have therefore examined the solutions of the European countries, not only in the waste sector but also in other public services, and we have concluded that meeting the EU's expectations will not be a problem for the capitalised states and the capitalised municipalities. The question is how effective a solution we have at our disposal. With regard to Hungary, we already have experience in both local government and state implementation. In considering these issues, we have examined in our presentation how private actors could be involved in the provision of tasks. In the case of the models mentioned above, it is very difficult to introduce the value of the waste. Shared liability rules, provisions restricting the value of marketable and exploitable waste, are an important obstacle to the industry's commercial, model-like market economy development. A draft of this proposal has also been published in the press. In this regard, I would just like to say that it has already changed substantially. The point has not changed, our proposal is the same. The business and financial risk of about 10-15 years of development of the waste management sector and the first cycle of development should be shared with private operators with the State having a very strong market surveillance quality assurance function. The whole point of this model is that, on the basis of our proposal, it is the private party to carry out all waste management activities collected by a county until it is processed. At the same time, we would expect an increase in quality of service and the achievement of EU targets. This is closely linked to another proposal of an economic nature, which would mean putting the redemption system on a new footing. As I have already said, the amendment of the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive provides for a large number of targets for us. They encourage the actors to do rather upcoming and urgent things. The SUP Directive also envisaged that Member States should ensure that 77 per cent of plastic beverages placed on the national market by 2025 and 90 per cent by 2029 are collected selectively. In addition, PET cylinders should be made of secondary raw material by 25 per cent from 2025 and 30 per cent from 2030. As a means of achieving these objectives, the SUP Directive proposes to introduce a redemption fee or to set a separate collection target for the producer responsibility system. In our view, we will not be able to meet the targets of EU appropriations through selective public collection alone. In the domestic legal system, packaging products are subject to a product charge under the Environmental Product Fee Act. Both the metal beverage packer and the PET packer will be charged for 57 HUF/kilogram and for 19 HUF/kilogram product fee for the bottle packer. However, it has to be seen that there is, of course, a possibility of placing on the market as a deposit fee product under the current rules, but this is only a voluntary and non-legislative obligation. Therefore, we believe that we can achieve significant results if a redemption system is introduced for PET, aluminium and glass packaging products, partly automatics and partly personal redemptions. We are proposing to consider this system as of 1 July 2022 and, of course, we are looking at the possibility of introducing it at more than one pace. So, in addition to PET, aluminium and glass packaging, boxes of fruit juices and dairy products, i.e. stratified beverage cartons and used baking oil, were proposed at the next steps 3-4. By the way, we also asked citizens' opinions in a representative survey. In Hungarian society, there is a great willingness to redeem recyclable products for money. 93 percent of respondents would collect PET bottles, aluminium boxes and bottles in their household if the state paid for their redemption, and 89 percent said that environmental, long-term environmental and short-term financial aspects are more important than possible price increases. So we consider that the citizens want to do the same. Finally, our third large package of proposals is linked to the previous ones, because we believe that the problems of the waste sector should also be addressed in the sense that a quality assurance and market surveillance system should be put in place. Accordingly, the already controlled system also involves avoiding the emergence of illegal waste. We'll eliminate the illegal waste we've already deposited. We have developed and introduced a system of strict immediate sanctioning of illegal landfill operators, at least in our package of proposals, an official cooperation system in which the public and the control body involved in the prevention and eradication of illegal landfilling can participate in the prevention and eradication of illegal landfills with the help of an electronic application. As you can see, our goals are clear. We would like the country to be cleansed, and we would like it to remain so, and we would like to move on to a much more efficient waste management. Dear Parliament, As I said, four submissions were discussed by the government. Of these, which is now on the agenda, is linked to the previous three issues. In line with EU standards, we would like to put the domestic waste sector on a new path. One of the central issues of the presentation before you is the plastic mentioned several times. Plastic plays an undisputedly useful role in the economy, as it is an indispensable raw material of many industries, with its excellent properties, one of the fastest-growing industries. Nearly 40 percent of domestic chemical production is the Hungarian plastics industry. Since 2007, we have also been able to export a significant proportion of the production of raw materials over 80 per cent. So we believe that such an industry should also be supported by economic policy instruments and that we must be able to bring it to the service of Hungary's competitiveness. To this end, we will create a scientific cluster of plastics in the development of the Hungarian plastics industry on the base of plastic science and domestic plastics companies. On the one hand, the most important task of this cluster, based on cooperation between scientific and industrial actors, will be to develop a plastic industry strategy and to formulate proposals that will support the further development of domestic plastic production and processing and the development of innovative solutions. One of the tools for rationalising Hungarian waste management, referred to several times today, is to increase the recycling and recycling rate of waste. To do this, we must implement all the measures set out in the SUP Directive. We will therefore continue to propose domestic implementation of all measures. However, as a first step, we are now proposing a restriction on three product types. As I pointed out in the presentation of the SUP Directive, many of the plastic products are not subject to high environmental requirements, since they are very short-lived in circular use and are single-use. So after they've played their part, they end up in the trash can and eventually in the dumpsters. There, however, they only decompose in hundreds of years. Such products are not considered eligible, and therefore, in the climate and nature conservation action plan, the government has taken a clear position in favour of banning so-called disposable products. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, Hungary would ban from 1 July 2021 the single-use plastic products referred to in Article 5 of the SUP Directive and which I have already listed. Based on our studies, products can be replaced with products that are currently available in domestic trade, which are environmentally favourable, so there is no obstacle to their withdrawal from the domestic market. In addition to the provisions of the directive, Hungary intends to introduce restrictive measures in respect of single-use plastic glasses. These products do not fall within the scope of Article 5 on restrictions on placing on the market, but the various articles provide for other types of restrictive measures against such products: marking requirements, the introduction of primarily awareness-raising measures and the introduction of extended producer responsibility schemes. This means that in the case of plastic drink containers, including their top and lids, Hungary has more stringent requirements than the European Union Directive. Thirdly, we have already begun to take the necessary measures to reduce the number of plastic carrier bags. Plastic carrier bags with a wall thickness between 15 microns and 50 microns are also banned, with the exception of biodegradable plastic carrier bags. [[21.30]] Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Directive No.3 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2004 on the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. The Directive also requires Member States to take appropriate measures to permanently reduce these carrier bags in their territory, providing Member States with different means to do so: they can be prohibited, marketing restrictions can be introduced or economic instruments can be used. Among the measures taken by the Member States, the Hungarian Government has so far considered the introduction of the product fee system to be a priority, but we now propose other types of restrictions on certain plastic carrier bags. Based on domestic plastic carrier bags habits, the proposal of the relevant segment of the plastics industry and the position of plastic industry representatives, the bill and the related government regulations propose a differentiated regulation for plastic carrier bags. On the one hand, on the basis of the authorisation of the Directive, it does not impose any restrictions on placing on the market in the light of very light plastic carrier bags in order to prevent food waste, to ensure the safe packaging of capital meat, wet goods and offal, while prohibiting the placing on the market of the already mentioned lightweight bags, i.e. under 50 microns wall thickness, which are used as a single use, with the exception of biologically decomposing carrier bags, but in order to ensure that plastic carrier bags are used only in a justified and sparing manner, the legislative proposal raises the product fee for traditional plastic carrier bags below 15 microns wall thickness from 57 forints/kg to 1900 forint/kilograms, and for biodegradable plastic carrier bags, regardless of their wall thickness, to a uniform product fee of 500 forint/kilograms. In order to limit the adverse effects of single-use plastic products on the environment, it is necessary to prohibit such products from placing on the market or to restrict the placing on the market of certain products. Of course, we do not forget the support of industrial actors: in order to encourage the production of replacements identical to those of prohibited products and to assist domestic plastics companies in the necessary technological change, the government decided to support the change in plastics technology in Hungary, and from 2020 it will provide HUF 10 billion per year for the production of such replacement products, capacity expansion and the acquisition of new production lines. Overall, the bill before Parliament serves the country's environmental interests and contributes to the fulfilment of the EU's obligations.
u2020-06-09-250	Dear Parliament, I hope that my not too short presentation, but a broader context for the waste management sector, will give you some insight into what we are working for. I would also ask you to discuss and then adopt the bill for the future of our shared future, our children and our grandchildren. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Dr. Anita Boros: Thank you very much.]] [[Dr. Anita Boros: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's exposé. Madam Secretary, we're sorry we can't get you a glass of water, but you can get water here at the entrance.
u2020-06-09-251	Because of the pandemic situation, it's standard. Thank you very much. (Dr. Anita Boros: Thank you very much.) Dear Parliament! The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that I am sure that protecting our environment and protecting our planet is equally important for all of us, but obviously there is some difference between the opposition proposals in general and the proposals supported by the government and by Fidesz, this usually applies to the measure, because by making these proposals aware of the responsibility of Fidesz as Fidesz is the governing party, because it is important for us to protect our natural values, and it is also important for us to develop the economy through the green view, but we need to be aware that we can only do this at a stage where we do not do more harm to it than we would do on the other side of the balance, because we are talking about people's livelihood, job and indeed long-term protection of our environment. In this spirit, Fidesz supports this proposal, as the bill before us is necessary to prohibit the placing on the market of disposable plastics. The production of plastic materials and the extraction of raw materials used for them have a particularly negative environmental, health and economic impact, thus requiring the establishment of a specific legal framework in order to reduce these significant negative impacts. Along the roads, on the streets of cities, in rivers and in the seas, there is an increasing accumulation of abandoned plastic waste. For humans, the release of single-use plastics is a significant change from a health and environmental point of view. The multiplicity of plastic and its relatively low costs make it present in our daily lives. There is no dispute that the use of plastic has many advantages and plays a useful role in the economy, and in many sectors it is essential to use it, but plastic products reach the end of their lives. In 2010, the number of plastic bags per capita was 160 per year, this figure has been halved over the last six years. Increasing use of short-lived products that are not designed for reuse or cost-effective recycling results in an increasingly less efficient production and consumption structure that does not meet the objective of a transition to a circular economy. There are already suitable, more sustainable and affordable alternatives for single-use plastic products to be banned. The rules on the circular economy and the restriction of plastics facilitate the development of new business opportunities and an innovative and more efficient way of production and consumption, since measures to protect climate protection and economic development are not conflicting but two mutually reinforcing processes. The new approach requires a new approach from all actors in society, requiring significant changes in the economy, in the design of products, in the production process and in the consumer perspective. The transformation of such a complex value chain requires cooperation from all key players, including manufacturers. The transition requires innovative solutions, which have a significant budgetary impact on both the technology, vocational training, engineering and approach-forming side. The aim is to make Hungary the market leader of the plastics industry in technology, research and innovation, which is why the government has decided to set up a plastic industry cluster, which will also examine the impact of plastics on the environment and its degradation properties under natural conditions. In order to change the technology of companies, the government provides almost HUF 10 billion annually from 2020 to the current producers of replacement products for capacity expansion and the acquisition of new production lines. The Government has already demonstrated its commitment and therefore, implementing the objectives of the climate and nature conservation action plan announced in February, it will ban the placing on the market of certain single-use plastic products from 1 July 2021. The Action Plan in order to eliminate the use of environmentally destructive plastic products strongly advocates banning single-use plastics. In the future, all measures must be taken to replace the marketing and use of single-use products which are still in mass. The bill amends the 1995 LIII on the general rules for the protection of the environment. Law and the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. Law. The Kvt. justified the need to take rapid action to reduce the amount of waste produced from plastic products and, in particular, from disposable plastic products. In line with the objectives of the European Union, the transposition of the SUP Directive and the restriction of the placing on the market of certain disposable plastic products have also begun in Hungary. The draft Government Decree on the restriction of the placing on the market of single-use and other plastic products has been prepared, and as part of this proposal, the power to adopt the necessary provisions for its entry into force is set out in the KVt. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (CHMP) The Kvt. The Government may restrict or prohibit the manufacture, placing on the market, trade or use of products which are typically wasted after a single use, provided that the products can be replaced by products which are less environmentally harmful. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.40]]
u2020-06-09-252	With this addition, the government is taking action against plastic and other environmental loads in accordance with the requirements of the circular economy. In line with this, I would like my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank you for your long, but satisfactory exposé, which is necessary in view of the importance of the subject. He has highlighted so much and we are looking at a topic that we need to talk about and share our thoughts with each other on a subject that is very important not only for our present, but rather for the definition of our future. At the same time, I must say that this is a long-awaited bill, but it would not be in this, but rather in the form of two or three weeks ago, that it would achieve the objective that I think we could all really expect. The sixth extinction, a passionate indictment of humanity's neglect, is found in a Pulitzer Prize-winning book. In the last half a billion years, allow me to approach this story a little bit from here, this area has been swept through by five great extinction waves on Earth. It's happened five times that there's been a dramatic decline in the number of species. Nowadays, if we put together news from around the world almost daily, we can realize that we can easily live in the days of the sixth extinction. The responsibility for this is for the first time in our lives, people. We cannot rely on asteroid impact, volcanic activity, continent migration, no, we are destroying this world ourselves. And we would not imagine the tragic proportions of plastic pollution. After the turn of the millennium, the production of plastic was inexorable, and it does not decompose in nature for at least 400 years if we throw it away. And we're throwing it away, and we know it very well. 91 percent of plastics are not recycled. Today, the oceans are full of plastic waste. Since the invention of plastic, we have produced a total of 8.3 billion tons of it, and part of it did it as garbage on the basis of data from a university research, and 44 percent of the plastics ever produced were made after 2000. In 1950 we made 2.3 million tons of plastic, 250 million in 2000 and 448 million in 2015. The volume of global plastic production doubled about every 15 years. One of the biggest misconceptions about this is that if we think that throwing a piece of waste into the trash can is the problem of its existence. This is a mistake, because there is no way to throw it away, because the waste generated is part of our system until it reaches some stage of recycling, giving it a chance to recycle as much as possible with the environment. In general, materials that become waste are characterised by the more steps they are made and the greater the intervention the original raw material undergoes, and the more difficult and less likely they are to be transformed back into organic or inorganic components. It is not by accident that the pre-members are all of these complex, complex molecules that are formed by multiple transformations and are very difficult to cause them to decompose. If we try to burn it, there are substances that are carcinogenic, if they enter the soil, they can dissolve compounds that inhibit the fertility of plants, and if they go into the sea, even micro-scale, disperse everywhere, seriously damaging marine life and feeding plastic into fish and other marine organisms that are also used for human food. The EU's most common type of plastic bag, the lightweight plastic bag, which is thinner than 50 microns, is most often not re-useable and thus quickly gets wasted. These plastic bags that contaminate natural waters and aquatic ecosystems are a huge environmental problem. Decisions taken so far at EU level: Since 2021 it will be prohibited to market plates, straws, plastic cutlery or to use them in the EU, other materials such as wood may be used instead of plastics. In accordance with the Directive, single use plates, straws, balloon sticks will be banned from 2021. These were also listed by the Secretary of State. Some examples from other parts of the world, America. In Seattle, plastic cutlery were banned from restaurants and bars. From now on, in the town's 5,000 restaurants, and this has not just happened, you can only use recyclable or compostable cutlery and straws. China: In 2010, they produced the most 60 million tonnes of plastic waste worldwide. By the end of 2020, I would like to fully extract the single-use plastic bags from the largest cities in China. By 2022, China would ban the use of non-degradable plastics in all large and small cities of China, making China one of the world's largest producers of plastic waste. It is planned that by the end of 2020, I would like to fully extract single-use plastics in the largest cities in the country. In London, the last straw initiative was launched, the last straw initiative, which calls on people not to use plastic straws. In one of the large furniture stores, they produce the last single-use straw for sale, and they no longer sell in any of their British or Irish shops. This is to encourage the nation to take small steps to protect the Earth, and this last straw will be displayed to them as a symbol. But the same initiative is also widespread in other countries, such as Australia, for example, there is a serious campaign in this area. But let's come back closer. Croatia already has one where a plastic-free island has been established. But as I began, where is the plan for plastic-free Hungary? Because the bill submitted weeks ago, which was then withdrawn, outlined the plan of a plastic-free Hungary rather than the one before us. With this latest bill, the government actually withdraws from the strong ban on banning single-use plastic bags below 50 microns. According to this, the government, under pressure from industry, has indeed fled from the ban on the most polluting bags for the environment and intends to continue to allow them to be marketed in part. This is not only a significant step backwards from the government's previously promised ban, but it goes against about a quarter of a million people who, in support of a civil society organisation's petition, expressed their views in order to create a restriction and end disposable plastic culture in Hungary. The original proposal would have led all bags of less than 50 microns out of Hungary, including thin walls, which are made available to consumers in shops for free, typically in the fruit and vegetable or bakery department. But according to the current bill, these thin so-called kiflis bags could still stay. But these bags are the most consumed, and after a single use they usually become garbage, and their recycling is virtually non-existent. These bags are most often released into the environment, as they can easily be picked up by the wind from the trash can during garbage transportation and can quickly become microplastics in nature. [[21.50]] A few more details on the new proposal. The restriction would take effect from July 2021 instead of the start of the year initially planned, and the new proposal is that bags of less than 15 microns should remain on the market, with a higher product fee. Also in this category, the marketing of so-called decomposing bags, mostly decomposing only under special industrial conditions would be introduced, and bags larger than 15 microns, for example, would only allow the sale of decomposing bags with thin ear bags. Well, unfortunately, in practice, that would mean that everything will remain the same, because, most likely, the price of the product fee will be incorporated into the price of the products. Therefore, it would be a much better solution to a higher price for products based on pieces, which would make each bag subject to a fee. Moreover, this was included in the 2018 ITM proposal for the release of disposable packaging. And what's wrong with decomposing bags? Although oil is not needed for their production, these decomposing bags are a false solution from an environmental point of view. Since most bags, called decomposing, do not degrade in home compost, many throw them into the plastic selective waste collector, contaminating it, as decomposing bags cannot be recycled as plastic. Currently, in Hungary, we do not have the right infrastructure to collect decomposing plastics, but there are no high capacity sites for composting, especially to the extent that there are no solutions to the treatment of waste generated at national level, and I am not aware of the plan to exploit compost.
u2020-06-09-254	To sum up, we support it, but we do not consider it satisfactory and sufficient in terms of the content of this bill. This must be one of the first steps in terms of environmental protection and adequate waste management, and we really need to do everything we can to keep environmental damage at an appropriate level, so that the sixth extinction I mentioned does not occur at the beginning. Let's not work for that. Let's work against it. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that Hungary already took decisive steps in 2011 to reduce the number of plastic bags and bags. In order to contribute to the prevention and reduction of pollution and the promotion of economical management of natural resources, the National Assembly established the Environmental Product Fee Act, with which it took a decisive step to reduce the number of plastic bags and bags. The General Affairs Council of the European Union adopted a Directive banning disposable plastics in May 2019. The new rules prohibit the use of disposable plastic products which can be replaced by alternative products. The so-called Single Use Plastics, the SAP Directive, entered into force on 2 June 2019 and gives Member States two years for transposition into the domestic legal system, i.e. the deadline for harmonisation expires on 3 July 2021. The T/10862. The bill is based on the climate and nature conservation action plan adopted in February this year, and on the said EU provision, which is binding on Member States, the so-called SAP Directive. The Action Plan strongly advocates banning disposable plastics in order to eliminate the use of environmentally destructive products. Under the Action Plan, all measures need to be taken to replace the marketing and use of single-use products, which are currently in mass, with other easy-to-use, recyclable products. The purpose of this proposal is to adopt the necessary legislative amendments to prohibit the circulation and placing on the market of disposable plastics as part of the climate and nature conservation action plan adopted by the Government. According to the proposal, the amendment is necessary for the implementation of the Government's climate and nature conservation action plan, for the harmonisation of Article 5 of the said EU SAP Directive, and for the use of a single concept and for the exclusion of the scope of banned products from product charges. The bill empowers the government to establish detailed rules and sets out the most important legal framework. The draft Government Decree on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain single-use and other plastic products proposes to prohibit the placing on the market of single-use plastics as required by the European Union as well as products made of oxidativeally biodegradable plastics from 1 July 2021. According to the bill, in addition to the requirements of the directive, single-use plastic cups, as mentioned by the Secretary of State, as well as plastic carrier bags with a wall thickness between 15 microns and 50 microns, will be banned in Hungary from 1 July 2021. The ban is excluded from biodegradable plastic carrier bags, since the European Parliament and the Council, Directive 94/62/EC on packaging and packaging waste, specifically provide for common measures on biodegradable and compostable plastic carrier bags and the related labelling and marking requirements, in order to ensure that biodegradable and compostable plastic carrier bags are recognised throughout the Union and that consumers are properly informed of the composting properties of such products. Directive 2015/720 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 amending Directive 94/62/EC. This Directive also lays down the types of plastic carrier bags, the objectives to be achieved by the Member States and the scope of possible measures. That Directive also requires Member States to take measures to achieve a lasting reduction in the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags in areas. I consider it important to point out that, in the light of food safety standards, there is no restriction on the placing on the market of very light plastic carrier bags, i.e. those with a wall thickness of less than 15 microns, in order to prevent food waste and the safe packaging of certain foods such as meat, wet products and offal. The bill intends to grant a general authorisation by supplementing the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment. Under this provision, in order to prevent or reduce the environmental burden, the Government may restrict or prohibit the production, placing on the market, use and trade in products which are typically wasted after a single use or where such products can be replaced by products which are less environmentally harmful. Under the authorisation provision laid down in the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment, the Government may lay down a regulation restricting or prohibiting the scope of restrictions and prohibited products and the manufacture, placing on the market, use and trade of those products. This amendment of the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment will make it flexible for the Hungarian Government and will be able to react more flexibly in the fight against plastic and other environmental loads in accordance with the requirements of the circular economy. The bill also envisages the production of a product fee and an increase in the additional rate by amending the Environmental Product Fee Act. [[22.00]] The bill provides for light plastic carrier bags with a wall thickness below 15 microns of 1900 forints/kilograms, while for biodegradable plastic carrier bags a product fee of 500 forints/kilograms, regardless of wall thickness. This amendment is also justified because instead of the concept of an environmental product fee, the concept of plastic shopping advertising bags is replaced by uniform concepts for plastic bags in the EU and domestic legal systems. Ladies and gentlemen, Action against the unreasonable and large-scale use of plastics is also justified by the preservation of a sustainable environmental status and compliance with EU obligations. The provisions of the bill are equally adapted to national sustainability efforts and to the requirements of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. This bill, and it is important to highlight, aims to allow manufacturers and distributors a sufficient period of preparation in order to provide suitable substitute products, by providing consumers with readily available alternatives to plastic products, such as wood cutlery and paper cups. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-06-09-256	The amendments under the bill therefore lay down the most important legal framework for the detailed regulation on the circular economy and the restriction of plastic products, while at the same time promoting and encouraging the development of an environmentally sound way of production and consumption. The KDNP supports the proposal and I ask that we support it, as it determines the next period of our future, our offspring and our planet. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-257	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. Thank you very much. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Fellow Members! Mankind is at a huge disadvantage in the treatment of plastic waste. Now we seem to be waking up, but as they say, we're almost in the 24th hour. It is a special task for Europe that, in the past, when we delivered all our garbage to Asia and received money for this, we can now pay for what will happen to this garbage. So I definitely think that we need a common thinking, how we can solve this problem at home, in Hungary and, of course, in Europe. Plastic products have been manufactured in bulk since the 1950s. Since then, more than 8 billion tons of plastic have been created. Since their degradation takes hundreds of years or even thousands of years, this 8 billion tons of plastic is all around us in some form. For example, the decay time of plastic bags is 400 years, according to some opinions, and one person uses 514 bags on average a year. Plastic waste, which slowly covers us, is not only aesthetic but also a serious health problem. The oceans cost about 8 million tons of plastic a year. Many animals die because they accidentally swallow plastic garbage or get tangled in it. But we humans are also at risk from this kind of pollution. Since many marine animals already have microplastic particles in their bodies, they are also included in our food. Breaking up a can of fish is enough, and the problem is already on the table of Hungarian families, threatening the health of our countrymen. Of course, microplastics do not only threaten through marine life. Here in Hungary, we pollute our environment in the same way as single-use plastic products. This year's Greenpeace survey shows a significant increase in microplastic contamination in the Danube water. Of course, many might say that plastic waste recycling is designed to prevent or reduce this. Fact and truth, over the last few decades, there has been a huge improvement in this area, but this is not a complete solution. On the one hand, it is not because in Hungary the proportion of waste collected selectively is only 10-15 percent compared to total waste. The question is what plan is going to be made for this. This is significantly below the recovery rate in Western Europe. In Germany and Austria, this ratio is above 50 percent. On the other hand, some of the waste that is supposed to be recycled cannot be recycled, because every little thing cannot be sorted out. Therefore, even though we collect selectively yogurt glasses or plastic cutlery, bags or food boxes, they are not being recycled in Hungary at the moment. It's also a question of whether it's possible. Moreover, let us not forget that recycling itself is a serious ecological burden. Just think about the environmental impacts of waste travel between countries or waste processing. The real solution can therefore only be to reduce or eliminate the use of disposable plastics. In May 2018, the European Commission proposed a ban on the use of ten of the most common plastic products on Europe's coasts. A year later, in May 2019, the General Affairs Council of the European Union introduced a ban on the use of disposable plastic products in the Member States of the European Union from 2021, as many of my fellow Members have already said. According to this, it will be prohibited to use disposable plastic products that can be replaced by alternative products after 2021. These are mainly single-use cutlery and plates, straws, plastic ear-cleaning sticks, balloon sticks and food boxes. The new rules also cover the recycling of waste. For example, plastic bottles should be made of 30% recycled material by 2030. Moreover, the European Union's intention is not to ban these products in general; the emphasis is on eliminating disposable plastics. This means that even after the ban, plastic products can be found on the shelves of shops if they can be used several times or if they are made from environmentally friendly materials. The best solution we can use is to replace these products. Instead of plastic cutlery, for example, there are alternatives made of metal or wood. A perfect solution for plastic boxes can be the use of pre-tanned or buckled bottles, which can be used in a reversible system. The largest quantity of single-use plastic products is made up of PET bottles, but can also be replaced by glass or metal. The straws can also be made of other materials, and they can be abandoned, as they can be drank without them. The MSZP believes that banning single-use products is inevitable. If we want our children and grandchildren not to live in a toxic environment, we need to develop a system of metal, wood or glass-based substitute devices. We sincerely hope that the EU ban due from 2021 will help speed up this process. At the same time, we also consider it important that the sustainable environment does not overshadow the sustainability of everyday life. Therefore, the MSZP takes the view that banning single-use plastic products cannot in any way endanger the livelihoods of Hungarian workers. For example, it is not possible for Hungarian families to bear the burden of EU regulation. We must do everything we can to ensure that large companies interested in manufacturing plastic products do not make Hungarian customers pay their profits. We must fulfil this EU obligation in such a way that it does not involve either a reduction in wages or the reduction or dismissal of the current workforce. The government has every means to help us get through this transition situation, and we expect it to do so. In particular, there will be great difficulties for the operators of each catering establishment. According to surveys, replacing single-use plastic cups, plates, cutlery and straws with environmentally friendly versions may increase their costs up to fourfold. There are therefore also significant challenges in the search for substitute products. We are aware that solving the situation is not easy. It is no coincidence that the proposal has already been put to the Parliament for the second time. We do not expect hasty action from the government, but we ask that it develop a well-thought-out programme prepared for every possibility, which at the same time takes into account the sustainability of the environment and the burden-bearing capacity of the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people. [[22.10]]
u2020-06-09-258	Madam Secretary of State, in your expo, you were quite persuasive. I trust we can go this way. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-259	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, they managed to put in a green bill, as it is now a tradition in this House. It seems to me that it is good to have fewer people watching this House talk about green matters. Mrs Secretary of State's introduction was very exhausting. However, I would have liked it if you had said one thing and talked most about what kind of lobby caused you to withdraw this bill, who beat it through Fidesen, the government, to withdraw your bill, what political pressure you received from the economic lobby to do so. From your comments, particularly from my fellow Member Böröcz, it seems that they still do not understand the state of the environment. There's no time to weigh, no time to look at what we can afford. Dear fellow Member, if we want to be able to live on this planet tomorrow and the day after, it is not a time of reflection. If it's good for the oligarchs and the moonyards around Fidesz, then we'll go ahead of the law, if it's not good, then we'll take it back. With all due respect, we recommend that you vote not on this bill, but on what we have submitted. The Democratic Coalition has resubmitted the law that Fidesz, the government, originally submitted, because it is a more serious bill. We ask you to be brave and support the first bill of your own government, not this neutered one that you neutered for an economic interest group. But why are we surprised that Fidesz is going in this direction on all environmental issues? Right now, this wallet has the Ministry of Environment, but it's been to agriculture, it's going to be somewhere else tomorrow, and then it's going to be next to Rogán, so it's just going to be PR. The Hungarian citizen doesn't even know who really deals with environmental protection today. You plowed it up, plowed the Ministry of the Environment, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, and the government is basically treating this area as stepchildren. You are pledging the green ombudsman institution, which should have dealt with the future generation. Would it have bothered you because you would have said things that you can't just live for today, you can't just build stadiums and hotels, but you do have to put money into the environment? Why did they shut down the green ombudsman's institution, what bothered you in this story? On top of that, it was supported by a head of state who was elected by you, who you wanted, President Falcon. We are very sorry that President Áder was not strong enough to keep these institutions to say: hey, Fidesz, let us not put an end to this ministry. I understand you don't have the time to talk about it when you're carping, but that's what was important. It may be that five billion forints of foundation money can be used to pay off a President of the Republic, but I think that maybe there's enough in there to finally hit the table and say that it's enough, it's time to start dealing with environmental protection. Madam Secretary, I do not know how much you know, but this type of initiative by the opposition has been quite a lot in the last ten years. You have been constantly kicking off the opposition's initiative for the past ten years, you have not been interested. In the area of illegal waste, which has been discussed, there have been several initiatives to exacerbate the penalties, to pay attention. What was the response from the Ministry then? It's all right, it's all right, there's enough punishment. And then all of a sudden, you're all green because a poll says something needs to be changed. Madam State Secretary, I would very much like to ask that the environmental proposals of opposition parties be considered, built in, not automatically kicked down every single time. There have been more than 30 environmental proposals from DK alone in recent years, which you are constantly kicking off. But if you've been kicked off, at least bring them back the same way. You know, we just talked about climate change. What happened there? You also neutered the proposal there. It's time to face people and tell them what Fidesz really wants. It's not the environment, it's somehow getting away with it. It is fortunate that we are members of the European Union, honourable Members, because at least the government is forced to take certain steps. The Secretary of State has been talking about what EU directives must be met for a long, long time. Thank God we're part of the Union, because at least you have to do something, you can't get away with it. But we'd appreciate it if for minutes you'd say your own initiatives about what you're doing, how you're going forward. But when you get an initiative that is not about what the European Union's directive is, but I personally took the initiative that environmental education in NAT should be able to transcend all the objects, we should deal with environmental education in each subject, and you kicked it off, you said that no, everything is fine with NAT. Madam Secretary, please tell me if it would have been useful if this had been accepted and the NAT had finally taken care of environmental education properly. Because every law is worth what people understand, and they want to keep it. If you are talking about the future, my honourable pro-government colleagues, then it is important that we raise this generation to understand that it is not just a matter of taking a few plastic bags of water, but of the fact that there are unprecedented quantities of microplastics contained in the Danube water, the tap water that we drink, and it could be classified for a long time.
u2020-06-09-260	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to support this bill. The bill submitted by DK is supported, which is the government's original bill. Let the pro-government representatives be so brave that they will vote for it. DK will reward this bill by abstaining because it is a significant step backwards from the original bill. We would like to ask that even the government has the opportunity to modify and even bring back the original, not to promote a narrow lobbying interest, but to look at the common future as a common objective. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2020-06-09-261	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Madam Secretary of State has indeed provided very detailed information on, on the one hand, the guidelines and guidelines for waste management in the European Union, and what their ambitions are. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government had plans for waste management, what legislative proposals they wanted to bring in in the second half of the year, and tried to put this bill in a broader context. However, it would have been nice to hear two issues in your exposé that are very closely linked to the current trial. One of the things I miss terribly is that I didn't get an answer or didn't get an answer to why the bill tabled at the beginning of May was actually loose. It is clear that it will come into force six months later, but what happened here is not only that the date has been pushed out, but we know that it is also a matter of lyeing and a complete relaxation. Until earlier the carrier bags between 15 and 50 microns were banned, this is not happening. They refer to biodegradable carrier bags as yet an environmentally friendly step, but we know that this is not compostable at home, so it will basically be wasted, there is no selective collection in this regard. Therefore, this current bill is definitely a significant step backwards. The other thing that would also have been good to hear, although the Secretary of State has talked about everything, what steps or plans the government has to take to become a much more environmentally friendly society, so that the population can produce much less waste. So the question here is not only to create waste mountains and to do something about it, and not only to use it in its material, but also to produce as little waste as possible, either step zero or step one. [[22.20]] Another third point, which is a little connected to them. Several people referred to the government's climate and nature conservation action plan adopted at the beginning of the year, which actually concerns the banning of these plastics. Ladies and gentlemen, in this current bill, there is really no mention of banning these carrier bags. That is what I would like to draw attention to. Dear House, We also see that this draft law has taken a very specific course. I am convinced that it is exemplary to see how the government does not understand the essence of sustainability, i.e. sustainable development. The draft law banning the placing on the market of certain disposable plastics is a real veterinary horse in which the weak environmental policy of the government comes back. 'Cause what exactly is behind this case? I, too, would like to draw attention to a little bit of a different light, but wider contexts. We have known that not only for a decade or two, but perhaps I think that we have long ago, worldwide and in the European Union, that our current production and consumption habits are not sustainable for a number of reasons. Firstly, continuous and forced economic growth competition has created a consumer society whose demand and supply side has been manipulated and exceeds real needs, people's well-being and conditions with two ls. This involves incredibly growing and devastating natural resource extraction, processing, energy use and transport energy demand through world trade. For all of these, see Annex XXI. The effects of the ecological crisis that has been underway for the last century are well known, as is the fact that this process is coming back. It is clear that we cannot and cannot do anything about the waste from disposable products, the waste from the planned avulsion-based consumption. With these products, we have managed to flood the developing, poor countries, some of which, by the way, I note, are finally trying to stop and say that for pennies it will become a dump in the rich world. But it is at least as worrying that due to consumption culture, both the country and the world are, unfortunately, full of illegal waste, undisciplined garbage, even though some of these were still products a few minutes ago, and could be again through proper collection and recycling. In this chain, packaging has had a specific role, as self-sufficiency has been replaced at all levels by transportation across countries and continents on land, water and air. We got to the point that the average consumer had little chance of getting the daily bread from packaging that could break down in the environment. And what few people know is how much packaging and packaging costs are included in the consumer price, for which sometimes you have to pay almost as much as the product alone would cost. Everyone now sees the untenable nature of this phenomenon, even though the so-called plastic era began only after the end of World War II, but its production increased exponentially. Several U.S. universities and research institutes examined the amount of plastic produced between 1950 and 2015. According to this, between 1950 and 2015, a total of 8.3 billion tonnes of plastic were produced. This corresponds to the weight of 820,000 Eiffel Towers. Of the 8300 million tonnes produced between 1950 and 2015, approximately 6300 million tonnes of plastic waste have been accumulated so far. Of these 6300 million tonnes, 12 percent were burned, and we know that they all contributed to the increase in air pollution and the greenhouse effect, while only 9 percent were recycled, the remaining 79 percent, or nearly 5000 million tonnes of plastic, constitute the global waste mountain, some of which is lying in landfills above or below the ground, while the other part lands somewhere in nature, such as our seas, oceans and, of course, also in our waters in Hungary. In this amazing amount, plastic bags also play a significant role, which worldwide lose between about five billion and one trillion pieces a day. More precisely, even researchers could not appreciate it. As a result, the world of plastic bags must be put to an end, especially because they do not decompose in our environment, they produce toxic by-products during their production, they produce carcinogens at the time of combustion, they threaten the existence of many species and habitats in nature, and we now know that microplastics have already been introduced into the animal and human body, their health effects are still unmeasurable. That is why, at the beginning of May, it was a pleasure to hear that the government, after several years of hesitation, is finally making a good law that would stop disposable plastics. However, our joy did not last long, because two weeks later the government withdrew, and now it has brought this new version to the House. However, this version is a significant step backwards from the previous draft, and the objection to the need to protect the workplaces of the domestic plastics industry is difficult to interpret, since there was an epidemic already at the beginning of May, the economic difficulties were expected when the government presented the first proposal. And by the way, even the law, which was submitted at the beginning of May, would not have completely banned, that is, all plastics, only those required by the EU, as well as certain plastic bags. The preparation of this law, we know that it has not started a few months ago, so to speak, for several years, and it would have been time for the government to think about it, to consult with economic operators on the expected effects of the ban, the transition, and not least on the proper replacement of these packaging materials. The direction that will be taken has already been envisaged by Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2008 on this, I believe that the Secretary of State has spoken in detail, but we have also heard in detail about the 2015 European Parliament and Council Directive to reduce the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags and the 2019 directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, the SUP Directive. Once again, there would have been time to prepare, coordinate with manufacturers, trade, introduce new environmentally friendly packaging materials and align consumption habits with these objectives. This liquefying proposal to use virtually decomposing bags at a price of penny, I note, is just a dead end. Their selective collection and treatment cannot be implemented, which would be necessary, because they will only decompose through special procedures. The minimum requirement would be for the government to levy a product fee of HUF 1900 per kilogram on them as well. It is also a question of what, what budget line will be used to receive government support for the changeover, increased to 5 billion and now to 10 billion. I ask you, there is a transparent public plan and a timetable for this. Believe me that this haste, lack of understanding of the actors involved, including consumers, and lack of understanding of their opinion is not a sign of good governance. At last, they could have done something for sustainability, but once again, this plan is a green painting created by coercion. Yeah, we should've stuck to the bill that came in early May. Therefore, we propose that you return to the original plan and find a solution on how to get these plastics out of the market as soon as possible and ban them.
u2020-06-09-262	We trust that the government will reconsider and vote in favour of the original proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-06-09-263	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group. [[22.30]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In short, because Congressman Oláh has left, really not going into the debate here, otherwise, as regards Hungarian tap water, MaVíz stated at the end of their research that there is no microplastic found in the Hungarian tap water, so I do not know where the Member actually took the basis for his statement. But basically, I would like to note that everyone would have preferred that the use of plastic products could be banned entirely from the Hungarian market and from the Hungarian everyday life. But it must be noted that you can talk about your backup deal, you can have some devious conspiracy theory again, we can now hear it from time to time in every case, here and here.
u2020-06-09-264	But in fact, it is precisely that Hungarian businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and one or two larger companies produce these materials in many cases. In the current situation after the coronal virus, which has not been good for the economy, the minimum is that the government and the factions supporting the government will consider allowing hundreds of people to lose their jobs because of the fact that, as of 1 January, we will be leading out all of these products, or giving them the opportunity to make the currently introduced, although obviously withdrawal or reduced proposal, if you like, if the carrier bags below 15 microns remain in the system, and we will examine the possibility of how, in any case, in a year or two, they can be managed so that they do not cause economic problems in the labour market, and the economy can also grow by them, and we can use better environmental technologies to produce such replacement products. I think it was the right and the right move. Thank you.
u2020-06-09-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, As a green politician, I'm glad that we have such a topic again before the Parliament. This is mainly due to the commitment and very firm stand of Hungarian citizens on the matter and, on the other hand, to the institutional pressure that the European Union represents for the Hungarian government. We are not there yet to believe the horse-zung that the pro-government representatives and members of the government say about the green commitment of the Fidesz government, but fortunately, whatever the real motive, whether the results of the polls or the actual personal commitment are in the background, the point is that the Hungarian Parliament is finally talking about the banning of disposable plastics. I am also glad that it is no longer worth long details as to why such a law is needed. Perhaps every schoolboy knows what plastic pollution means, touching scenes, dramatic sequences of images are everywhere in every corner of the Internet, and now it doesn't matter that we're looking at three French islands in the middle of the Pacific, or that 33 thousand plastic bottles from different rivers arrive here, closer to us in the Mediterranean every minute. But we do not have to sail to international waters, the Danube, the Balaton microplastic content is three to five times the previous, and we know that this causes not only the pollution of the waters, but also the destruction and extinction of animals, complete animal species, and it also has a very harmful effect on human health. So luckily, we don't have to bore each other anymore. The question from now on is what we do, what we can do, what we dare to do, how far it is worth going, how far the government can go, and, unfortunately, this bill is disappointing in this respect. Many people here have already told me what his story is, and I would stop commenting on why and how this softened bill was drafted after the proposal that had already been tabled, otherwise very forward-looking. I would like to make one two-word quote here: an acceptable compromise, according to the representatives of the plastic lobby. Just yesterday, the Secretary of State and Minister stood up together, and I must say that if the lobbyists are satisfied, then we, who are fighting against lobbyists in an expression of social interest, cannot be. Obviously, no one wants to lose dozens or even hundreds of jobs in Hungarian SMEs, but as you said at the press conference yesterday, Madam State Secretary, and then confirms, I hope that disposable plastics that can be used once are only a small segment of the production of the Hungarian plastics industry, so it is clear that these companies will not go bankrupt against the alarm of our fellow Member Böröcz even if this small segment is lost from the product portfolio, they can switch to other, more currencies. Their result is obviously also that they managed to fight out a ten billion-dollar aid package, while the fact is that it is not a change of technology, but a change of culture that is needed in the first place. So we would be very pleased to see that this topic would be more prominent in the way that education on sustainability in general, the importance of this whole topic and approach would appear in education, sewn up and patched up, for example, everywhere in the field of awareness-forming campaigns. When there are a few ten billion forints each year for campaigns against Soros, I think there would also be a few billion for example for the approach-forming campaign related to the release of disposable plastics. I mean, I know it's hard in our everyday lives. I'm not saying that I never buy these blokes, unfortunately we can't even retrain ourselves so easily, but if we see that we can change our way of life on a social scale, and the coronal virus epidemic has now proven that if we can get used to it when we get on a public transport device, we can buy a mask, if we can get used to having a mask, if we want to go to a store, we can put it up and continue the line, then we can also get used to going shopping with some canvas bags. It's not such an unfulfilled challenge. And then it would be possible to reflect on how to use the remaining plastic packaging, on recycling and on similar issues, where there is, by the way, very good international practice, no longer need to invent the Spanish wax. In Norway, the efficiency of recovery is 97%. Ninety-nine percent of Sweden's products are used for the release of plastic products sold as packaging material, i.e. basically used for energy production, so to speak, Sweden needs to be imported. So we could follow this Scandinavian model not only in economic and social policy, but also in terms of waste management. This is what the Dialogue proposes as a green left party, and I very much hope that the ITM representatives will return to their former courageous self and that they will be able to give other reassuring answers to plastic lobbyists. All the more so, because 83 percent of Hungarian citizens, virtually five-sixth, are committed to the release of single-use plastics. He supported Greenpeace's petition with the signature of a quarter of a million citizens. Thousands of people sent letters to the Ministry and other responsible decision makers. I ask that you hear their voice, do not lose your courage, have the courage to set ambitious goals and achieve them; in this case, the entire opposition and civil society, and even the Hungarian society, will stand by you, and otherwise we will be forced to acknowledge with a disappointed head-slapping that once again a lobby within a party, an industrial interest group, was a priority and not in the interests of future generations, not in terms of human health.
u2020-06-09-266	I hope that, unfortunately, as soon as they have been able to correct me in the last few weeks, they will now correct me again and make a wise decision at the end. I wish you all the courage to do that. Thank you very much.
u2020-06-09-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be two-minute speeches again. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP. Here you go. [[22.40]] Thank you very much. In order to cut this short, I'd like to ask you two things. One is that we really do not discuss such a matter at night. On the last occasion, we began to negotiate the environmental law so late that we hung out in World Environment Day, 22 April. So that would be one of the requests, because I think it's a rather important thing. Moreover, the Secretary of State has made it very clear what the concept is. Among other things, he said that he highlighted the elimination of illegal landfills among the steps to be taken in the near future, and I would be interested to know what the specific timetable is for this. That's one part of it. Secondly, he said some specific figures that 18.2 million tonnes of waste are generated annually in Hungary, of which 14.5 million tonnes of construction, demolition, industrial, agricultural and hazardous waste, and 3.8 million tonnes of domestic and total waste have increased in recent years, mainly due to the recovery of construction and industrial waste.
u2020-06-09-268	It also added that this exploitation rate reached 61 per cent in 2018. If you'd just give me a little bit more of that, because it's not accurate to me, because we're talking about 15 percent in general. So in this case, how come this number is so high? Thank you. [[No one's reporting.]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak on the agenda.
u2020-06-09-269	I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Anita Boros, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Madam Secretary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for staying with us this late at night, and thank you even more for your comments. I thank Mrs Gurmai Zita in particular for her pragmatic proposals. We believe that the four proposals we have drawn up for the government are indeed designed to promote sustainable development, a transition to a circular economy and rationalise waste management. As far as I know, a bill can be revoked. In particular, it is appropriate to use these tools if, in the middle and at the end of such an epidemic situation, the well-known or well-known plastic industry interest representatives with whom we are in constant consultation, and among them, the CSAOSZ, the National Association for Packaging and Materials Movement, indicate to us that, in view of the pandemic situation, plastic industry businesses are expected to cease jobs, and the earlier stricter restrictions are increasing this situation. Therefore, the government has decided to re-examine the related legal situation, examine the situation of workers in the plastics industry and examine how we can support the domestic plastics industry. So as a result, we have come to the conclusion that, although it has been said here from the mouth of a Member, that a non-plastic country should be created, this is certainly not going to work, given that that is not the case. Plastic has been in economic life since 1950, since the invention of the first types of plastic. If you just think about our daily lives as we get up, as long as we go to bed, we will certainly touch or use thousands of plastic products. We are talking here about the plastic products that we only use once, and it is also in the directive, as I said, that they produce these products in the first place, that they are intended for one time and that they will never return to economic life again. We therefore believe that this industry, and any plastic which is not for single use, but for recyclable, reusable, must be supported. Therefore, we also had to examine plastic products and single-use plastic products, either for reasons of food safety or because they are needed in bulk or because they do not have a replaceable, therefore a substitute product, or the directive of the European Union makes it possible to keep them on the market. What are these? The Packaging Directive says that in fact two large segments of plastic carrier bags can be distinguished: lightweight plastic carrier bags and very light plastic carrier bags. Now we also need to take into account and agree with the Food Safety Authority that there is currently a substitute product for a very light plastic carrier bag in which, let's say, meat products, which inevitably have some moisture content, can be packed in such a way that they also comply with food safety standards. We have come to the conclusion, together with food safety professionals, that we still need to give the Hungarian market time to ensure that products that have already been presented at various trade and food safety exhibitions will be made available in Hungary, and we can also manufacture them in Hungary; so far there is no such product. There is a piece of paper to which, Mr. Secretary of State told me that if we put a kilo of meat on it, there will be no bloody juice flowing through it until evening, but this is not available on the Hungarian markets. Thus, such considerations have led to the fact that certain products should not yet be withdrawn from the Hungarian market. That's one of them, but the emphasis is still on the word, and I'm going to talk about it. The other: the question of the product fee has been raised here. As the directive puts it, to achieve a drastic reduction in the number of plastic bags can be achieved by different means. There has been a request to the government not to disturb everyday life, not to make people's daily lives very drastic. So we need to take these needs into account to the extent that we can find the golden middle ground. Therefore, we think that the product fee, the very high product fee... these are not penny-feet product fees, because we have talked about 57 forints, and now we are talking about 1900 forints/kilograms, which represent a drastic increase. The biologically biodegradable, biodegradable products have not yet been subject to a product fee, so the current 500 forints/kilogram product fee compared to zero, I think is a rather drastic increase. Thirdly, with regard to product-pricing issues, it is also worth pointing out that what we are trying to achieve is that the trade chain, the manufacturer or author who offers citizens a bag, and which can include tomatoes, cucumbers or wet products, will decide not to see such products on its markets, on its shelves, as there are other products with a much more favourable product price. For example, paper bags, which have a product fee of HUF 19 per kilogram, are not comparable to the price of HUF 1900 per kilogram, or boxes made of stratified paper, which also run at HUF 19 per kilogram for the product fee. We would like the market to go in the direction of more and more so-called packaging-free stores and shops, and there are quite a few of them in Budapest as well. So we do not want the Hungarian people to pay the price of this product fee increase, and we think, in agreement with the large trade chains, that they themselves have already made this decision, and do not wish to use such products, only those products which are essential, which, for reasons of food safety, as I said, are inevitably applicable because of their mass presence. Fourth, we talked about the biologically decomposing plastic carrier bags. This is where it was said that these plastic carrier bags do not decompose. I am not a representative of this discipline, so I cannot tell you that such a plastic bag is decomposing, but I think it is not our place to decide, just as the scientific representatives of the European Union could not decide, and as there is a kind of debate between representatives of Hungarian science in this sense. That is why we have decided to look further into the fact that these products, which have been quality-qualityd under the rules for biodegradable plastic products, which are otherwise covered by a separate chapter in the Packaging Directive, are actually biodegradable. It takes time to create a plastic cluster. One of the tasks of this cluster is, inter alia, to examine, invent, or suggest how these products can be collected separately, selectively, and if they are collected selectively, so that they do not mix with other types of plastics, how to create conditions in which they can actually decompose. In relation to substitution products, a colleague said that there are no substitute products available on the market now or that they are difficult to obtain. My colleagues here have been able to resolve my Secretary of State in one afternoon to find the replacement products for all products, so I think they are already available in retail. Our fellow Member said that there is no separate environmental wallet. Well, bad news: 94/2018. Government decree, which is our Statute Decree 79. Paragraph 9 of the Act states that the Minister of Agriculture is a member of the Government responsible for environmental protection. [[22.50]] It has also been said that the green ombudsman has been abolished. In Article 30 (3) of the Fundamental Law, it concerns the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations, so I think that this statement must be due to some kind of misunderstanding. What I would also like to point out is that the government, with its current proposal, has developed a much stricter package of proposals than the European Union expects. But we have put this package of proposals, taking into account pragmatic aspects, with regard to the protection of Hungarian citizens, domestic businesses and domestic jobs, and our aim is to move quickly to the circular economy, because we believe that there is a huge potential in this. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-06-09-270	We believe in this paradigm shift, so I respectfully ask for the adoption and support of our bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m.
