u2020-05-18-0	[[With the exception of some opposition representatives, those in the room stand up and greet the electoral community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 24th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the pandemic continues to define international political discourse, including the Hungarian one. We have entered a new phase of defence throughout the European Union and thus in Hungary, as it introduces simplification and relaxing measures with different intensity and, according to different timetables, virtually all European countries. It is important for everyone to take account of the experience gained during the relaxing measures, as the epidemic has reached European countries at different times and at different times. Some of them have faced it before, so that they may perhaps encounter a period after the outbreak has run off or has peaked, so it is important that those who are going ahead in time should also base our own decisions by gathering the experiences of those who are going ahead. We must strive for a sensible and prudent balance on three issues: above all, with regard to the protection of human life and health, and then with regard to the re-launch of the economy, and with regard to the recovery of normal life. The decisions of the Government of Hungary have remained within the framework of this framework and conditions for the lifting and relaxation of curfew. Allow me to briefly report on the measures taken by the government in recent days, which also had a threefold target system of measures: on the one hand, to prepare the health care system for a situation that we had not yet been able to experience; on the other hand, to give the economy a positive start position in the new world economy era that will bring with it a whole new type of competition; and on the other hand, travel restrictions completely contrary to the trends of recent years and decades had to ensure the return of Hungarians stranded abroad without their own faults. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with this one, because it's the shortest report I've got. Today we have crossed ten thousand people in terms of the number of Hungarians repatriated, or helped them return; we have helped 10 001 Hungarians return home so far, and there are 541 Hungarian citizens still abroad, who have not been able to return home because of travel restrictions. In this respect, there was much debate on EU aid. Of course, we have notified each discharge flight to the European Union, we have brought home citizens from other EU countries on almost every discharge flight, but so far we have not received any support, not even a reply from the European Union. I would like to inform you about the procurement that is vital for the success of health protection. You know exactly what the Parliament knows, because I have told you week after week that we have created an air bridge between China and Hungary. To date, more than 130 aircraft have flown on this air bridge, more than 130 aircraft have delivered essential medical protection equipment to Hungary. I respectfully inform you that 132 million 175 thousand masks have arrived so far, and we have a further contract for 40 million 400 thousand. I would like to inform you that 3298 respirators have been delivered to Hungary by Chinese companies, only 1351 in the last week. I would also like to inform you that 2 million 370 thousand tests have already arrived, and that we have a further 1 million 170,000 contracts. With regard to protective equipment such as protective clothing, glasses, facial shields, 68 million 665,000 are already here in Hungary, we are waiting for less than one million such protective equipment to be delivered. At the same time, I will inform you that we have received 850 thousand medicines from China that are given only to three other countries, and for which they have very positive experience with the treatment of patients with coronal viruses, but we also agreed with Japan that 12 200 of the medicines developed there will be transported to Hungary. The medicines for Hungary are ready, they are waiting for delivery. I would like to inform you that we have received assistance from several countries, including China and the Member States of the Turk Council, and thanks to the procurement, we have been able to help those who were in trouble, so we have helped the Hungarian national communities across the border, as well as the neighbouring countries and the countries in the Western Balkans that needed our help. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, we all see, we hear that in the last few days some of the Hungarian press has written about medical debates. I think that, not being medical professionals for all of us, it should also be obvious that different instruments are used at different supply stages; we always order what the healthcare area asks for, and we deliver it in accordance with European standards. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have also had classic debates in the field of the economy. The opposition side of Parliament has demanded that we give aid to people rather than jobs, but we continue to pursue an economic policy that focuses on creating jobs. We are creating at least as many new jobs as the crisis has put at risk, and we are trying to protect all the jobs in Hungary that are in danger. However, it will only be an investment, but the investment will be a job, a job will be a job, and a job will have a predictable vision and existence. Aid, however, will be indebted and vulnerable, so we will continue to support the creation of jobs in the future. Using a European regulatory change, we support companies operating in Hungary who are willing to invest in order to protect jobs in their own company with a maximum amount of EUR 800 000, and we give half of the investment to these companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that there have been 526 such companies, 526 companies have invested a total of HUF 254 billion; HUF 254 billion in investment in the current situation, when the news about the world economy is almost negative. That is why thanks and appreciation are due to all companies who have so far undertaken to protect 93 650 jobs. We'll give them our support. Since the proposals received go well beyond the preliminary expectations, the originally planned budget of HUF 50 billion has already been doubled by the government last Wednesday, with the view that if Hungarian companies show up at this rate, that they are willing to invest in protecting jobs, we will open a new tender framework for them. The good news is that 416 of the 526 applicants are Hungarians. This clearly shows that in recent years Hungarian medium, small and large enterprises have been able to grow significantly. I would also like to inform you that we are negotiating with the European Union to abolish the maximum amount of EUR 800 000, so that we can support the investments of companies operating in Hungary with more than this amount. Following several rounds of negotiations, the European Union promised a response by the end of May. We hope that one of the experiences of the crisis will be that the European Union institutions will also work a little faster than before. Ladies and gentlemen, However, in recent weeks and months, we have also faced political debates here. We have faced fundamental and smiling lies from both internal and foreign countries in the context of the Crown Virus Act. We've heard that Parliament doesn't meet, just like we've been confronted with sly Nazis here. However, now that the Parliament can prepare to put an end to this emergency by law, everyone who has previously lied to the contrary could, of course, apologize. However, we are not naive, obviously this is not going to happen; it is enough that they have been entangled in their lies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-2	Dear House, I would remind the fellow Members that the Minister could have spoken for 10 minutes because of a derogation from the last house rule adopted, and that, according to this change, the political groups have 5 minutes to respond, which, at the end of which, Minister, will also be able to rejoin in five minutes. First I give the floor to Gergely Harvesto.
u2020-05-18-3	Dear House, Let me start with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done: if everything is really okay with the mandate law, if everything is really being returned here, and there really is a well-functioning parliamentary democracy here, then why hasn't Viktor Orbán, the brave one, gone to the European Parliament? Why did you try, knowing that they would refuse to send someone else instead of you? Don't tell me it's because you had the energy to go to Belgrade the next day. It was quite obvious that he had avoided this debate, since he was not used to having democratic rules in the European Parliament. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You can tell him what you're using the authority bill for. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What's it used for? To allow the public, even by avoiding the very limited publicity of Parliament, to distribute money, because when the Minister of Foreign Affairs talks about how much support they give for investment and now demand that the amount mentioned by the European Union be raised, this means that they want to give support to large companies. Because such gigantic support is not given to Hungarian medium-sized companies, especially small companies, they have received nothing from you. Small business operators cannot count on any substantial support, especially for fidesz oligarchs and some multinationals. You do not support the Hungarian families who have lost their jobs. Now, at the end of May, they start to think that maybe we should give something to keep jobs, because what they gave us earlier was a hump, and it didn't really help. That's why there are hundreds of thousands of unemployed today, and you're trying to deny it, manipulating the statistics, not letting people sign up for unemployment benefits, and thus putting them in a worse position. They did not help people who lost their jobs, did not support DK's proposal to increase the family allowance, did not support the proposal that, like most European countries, those who lost their jobs, received one-off support, did not support an increase in the duration and amount of unemployment benefits. The fact is, Mr House, that Fidesz has abandoned Hungarian people, workers and small businesses. [[13.20]] As far as the other half of his victory report is concerned, I must say that we are listening here in Parliament every time to what great, huge quantities of equipment they have acquired. Then if anyone asks a hospital, asks medical personnel, it turns out there's no protective equipment available, that they have to wear a protective suit for one day, which is impossible, it turns out they're getting a mask that you said you weren't going to get into health care. This is not the case, they also receive a mask in the health care system that includes the inscription, which is not intended for use in health institutions, gloves that break up at first. After that, we may not be surprised that the data show that while the level of infection in society as a whole has remained very low, fortunately, they were finally willing to carry out the mass testing that was said here in Parliament a few weeks ago that there was no need, no professional justification, and the WHO does not recommend it. Now they've finally given in to the profession and done a mass test, and it turns out that relatively few people in society have gotten sick. That's good news, and it allows for careful opening. Then why are there so many patients, and why are there so many victims? That's because, and that's what's coming out of the data, because there's an epidemic in health institutions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately losing 13 percent of the infected patients in Hungary. This figure is much less than 6 percent in the surrounding countries, 7 percent, but there is also a country with only 2 percent. You have to answer why in Hungary there is two to three to four times more chance of dying than in any neighbouring country than in Romania, Croatia, Slovenia or Austria. They must answer and be responsible for this. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] I must say, therefore, that it is time that this extraordinary mandate was best used to distribute money to my friends and to avoid public scrutiny in order to eliminate the rule of law, and to fulfill a promise by Viktor Orbán once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-18-4	I now give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group.
u2020-05-18-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We fully agree with you that the most important thing is to protect human life and human health, so I would like to start by saying thank you to all those who have worked so far to protect the safety and health of Hungarian people, and that is what they will do in the next period. Their work is indispensable. It is therefore regrettable that they have not received the aid or a single wage supplement previously promised. At the same time, it is very, very important that the government and everyone work with all their might to alleviate the emerging social and economic crisis. In this respect, there is much more debate between the ruling parties and the opposition parties. That is why I am pleased, Minister, that you are here after a week's absence, because I have very important questions for you. I am pleased with this House Rule amendment, because it will give the Minister the opportunity to answer very important questions. Last Friday, the government made a rather shocking, in fact scandalous decision, the meaning of which is, in fact, that you sacrificed a significant part of the fund that could be used to protect Hungarian jobs in the service of Chinese great power interests. What exactly am I thinking? You have created the Economic Protection Fund with extremely serious, extremely severe restrictions. We know how extensive these restrictions have been. Basically, the municipalities were directly affected by the restrictions, but we know precisely that these austerity measures are causing direct harm to Hungarian people, and the provision of the most important public services to Hungarian people could be put at risk. And on Friday, you made a rather shocking decision, that from this economic protection fund, built up by austerity, another HUF 80 billion will be transferred to the development project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the return of which cannot be justified in any way. We can see from the results of recent weeks and recent months how you have approached the protection of the economy. Measures to protect jobs have been put in place late and we can now see the volume of these measures. You have discussed earlier that the economic protection package amounts to between 10 and 20 percent of GDP, although from the convergence report we can see that the measures notified so far to protect jobs represented only 0.37 percent of GDP. It is no coincidence that unemployment has hit Hungarian society to a very serious extent. We have been announced, and we have a very serious philosophical debate in this, as you and the Prime Minister have said earlier, that you basically see the solution in public employment. But what you are about to do is quite shocking, Minister, and I would ask you and your government for a very serious and clear answer. Today, ITM announced a job creation programme with HUF 80 billion. In the next six months, a job creation programme is being launched that is expected to create 70,000 jobs. At the same time, we can say that 80 billion HUF will be spent this year on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, with a total of 140-150 billion HUF in total this year. So, on the basis of your figures, we can say that you are sacrificing 125,000 jobs in proportion to the completion of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project. I ask you, Minister, to explain, on behalf of the government, why this project is more important to you, which we know is worth 300 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, and I repeat, this amount, according to your calculations, could be enough to create another 125 thousand jobs. He said in his report that investment is important and that we should be prepared to face quite different challenges, not just for Hungary, but for Europe as a whole, and we can say that the global world economy. This is quite clear, Minister, all we need is investments that make sense, which pay back and help Hungary to meet this very important challenge. You can build anything, you can build a triumph on Kossuth Square, Minister, but that won't do you any good either. You have acknowledged the pointlessness of the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line by wanting to encrypt the contract and all the underlying documents by voting tomorrow. I'm asking you to explain that, Minister. Indeed, there is a very serious philosophical debate between us and the governing parties. In the last ten years, you have wanted to build a kind of economic recovery and investment promotion on the vulnerable, low-wage and self-defensive workforce, and we always say that only the well-trained, well-paid, valued Hungarian workforce can be built on the right economic development and the future of the nation. We have a very serious philosophical debate here, Minister. I would like to ask you, in the short time remaining, that, while you report to us from week to week on the various acquisitions of assets, you also provide us with information on exactly which companies are involved in these purchases, and how to remedy quality problems and enforce any liability. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-6	Now it's Car Cake Olivio's turn.
u2020-05-18-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Thank you very much for the report. Firstly, I am pleased that so much attention is being paid to my proposals for the plenary session and that ministers already have the opportunity to respond and respond to the opposition's concerns. My request is that these are meaningful. [[Dr. Máté Kocsis: You didn't vote for this either!]] I voted in favour of answers and not misconception. By the way, I'll have some suggestions for the meeting. As far as I know, there's still a health epidemic, so nothing's changed since then, but where's the minister in charge of health? Why does the Secretary of State report regularly? The Minister of Foreign Affairs is working, we can see that, and we can obviously address many criticisms, but we cannot even criticise Minister Miklós Kásler because he is not here in Parliament, he does not report before the agenda. Sometimes you stop by for an immediate question or two because it's your legal obligation, but beyond that, you don't fulfil your obligation. I saw the Secretary of State talking to his Chinese foreign minister colleague. My request is that you be kind enough to call him back. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because today's news is that 250 people are being sent to Russia by Chinese Wescast Hungary Autopari Zrt. Knowing Chinese internal politics, Minister for Foreign Affairs may be able to influence the fact that more Hungarians should not be sent by a large Chinese company in Hungary. Be nice, call him back and let him know. This is where the company's support business comes in. The only way I know how to fix this is if I'm wrong, it's support for the purchase of tools, but it's also for new technology and automation. It is quite unacceptable that, at a time when Hungarian jobs are being lost, there is a programme in which it can be recorded and spent for automation. This money should be so generously spent on wage support. [[13.30]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about the lack of support from the EU. This has been raised several times by Fidesz MEPs, and I have also said that when you object to closer EU integration, when you talk about how only one European Union of national states will work, you are going to contradict yourself here. How could a divided European Union respond to such a situation when there are some of the Hungarian governments who weaken the integration process? Only a united, integrated European Union can act and act quickly and effectively in such a crisis. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] Be kind and use your criticism with proper consistency. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly mentioned that various criticisms are being made about the government's steps from abroad and why Hungary is being attacked are being criticised. I would like to ask the question: if, say, in a similar case in Romania, Slovakia, or as it happened in Romania, Klaus Iohannis makes an unacceptable statement, and we encourage European action in this regard, we ask for European action, then can Romanians also say that they should not interfere in their internal affairs, because it is not our business? So that's not how it works. It is obvious, by the way, that Parliament [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] were wrong in the ominous CNN interview about his operation [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They weren't wrong, they lied! They lied! That's what it's called! They lied! Say it. Say it. Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But by the way, nine out of ten questions in nine! The Secretary of State was wrong, and he couldn't defend his position. I understand you like soccer, and I understand you're a Kispest fan, which is a good quality. [[Dr. Bence Szijjártó to Péter Rétvári: Peter, praises the opposition! Defiance.]] If a football player loses to 10:1, then he doesn't say he won just to make you understand. [[It's grumpy.]] I'd like to ask you more about the ventilator. There were many criticisms and unnamed criticisms in this regard, but with a critical name it appeared: András Lovas Szeged, an intensive therapy doctor, claimed that the ventilators they received were not used to treat these diseases. In this connection, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how many of these, how many ventilators were brought in, how many ventilators, how many sleep breathings... [[Dr. Bence Retvári: Against Breath?!]] has a respiratory failure treatment device been brought in? Besides, there are data on poor quality Chinese devices, how many of them are there, what's their fate, how do they control these machines? Because there are a lot of criticisms about these instruments [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're bringing them in from China. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-8	Bertalan Tóth is next. [[Németh Szilárd István: Is there any more?!]]
u2020-05-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You have had every authority over the last few months to deal with the most serious crises and the most serious problems in Hungary, but you have used this extraordinary mandate to do nothing but to bake your own steak, as you have done in the past. [[There are constant murmurs and interruptions from the ruling parties.]] , and it has been used for nothing but to speak only about the cuts of municipal rights, the withdrawal of municipal resources, but let us not pass the two Hungarian citizens side by side with the two Hungarian citizens, who, because of their opinion, have been destroyed by the police in the last few days. And they would have had the money to deal with the most serious situations, the most serious problems. The Minister is talking about it, and in general here in Parliament, you are talking about what will happen. But let us look at what is happening, what is happening in Hungary. You would spend a lot of billions of HUF on job protection, according to a study, 600 million HUF was spent on 8 May, and a positive decision was made for 300 companies. You are talking about hundreds of billions of forints of investment, but with regard to the protection of families, children and maternity support will no longer be touched, raised, and the tragic situation of families in a very difficult situation will not be changed. But what did you get money for during this extraordinary period? He made money to develop sports facilities worth HUF 4 billion. National sports centers received money worth 1.2 billion forints. There was money for the 2021 hunting exhibition worth 1.6 billion forints. And there was money for the extra support of the athletic stadium worth 2 billion forints. You promise to change the situation of pensioners with regard to a pension supplement to be paid at 53rd week and next year [[György Balla intervenes.]] And they did not help pensioners to defend themselves, even though I have repeatedly demanded here in Parliament that they be given protective equipment, disinfectants, gloves, masks; they are still largely lying in warehouses and do not get where they are needed. But they were also able to spend 38 million forints in support of conservative, traditional Hungarian organizations and 135 million forints for state medals for the presidency of the Republic. Hospitals sent officers, not tests. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] do not increase the wages of doctors, as the Hungarian Medical Chamber has suggested. It also turns out that the centers of the epidemic are health institutions, hospitals [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right!]] And you've solved this by sending the sick people home to avoid catching the corona virus in health care facilities; you've risked their lives, thousands of their people, according to the Prime Minister. [[Miklós Soltész intervenes.]] 11,000 men. They don't give any more money to hospitals, but that's why there was support for extra funds due to extraordinary migratory pressure worth HUF 19.3 billion, and as my fellow Member said, Budapest-Belgrád also received HUF 82 billion on the railway line. They are talking about the European Union not giving money for crisis management. I hope that next week, Minister Palkovics will be coming into Parliament in his presentations to present the international press, in trade union negotiations, everywhere that hundreds of billions of European Union funds are being allocated to, for example, the development of tourism, mostly infrastructure investment, and labour re-training programmes will be spending hundreds of billions of forints, only the problem is that they are once again getting to Lőrinc Mészáros, the property of family members, and that, of course, in labour re-training programmes, companies that are close to Fidesz will be appointed, and they will be offended when Western European governments raise objections, because they do not want their taxpayers' money to be stolen, the money of those who pay taxes there. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Nacsa Lawrence: Oh, my God!]] Dear Minister, I'd like to ask you to talk about that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that is now, because people are now experiencing the crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-10	It's now for Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. [[It's grumpy.]]
u2020-05-18-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like first and foremost to start by saying that the corona virus epidemic will indeed define world politics and the world economy's directions, and therefore, in contrast to the opposition, let us talk about the facts. What will be decisive beyond the protection of human life is that which countries are capable of economic cooperation, and in this we are very successful, we have an excellent relationship with most of our neighbours. I would like to start with Serbia, because the Serbian-Hungarian partnership is excellent, and if there have already been sums, Hungarian companies will invest 18 billion forints in Serbia, which is of particular importance for both Serbia and Hungary's economy. In the case of Austria, this week the Minister for Foreign Affairs also indicated the opening of two new crossing points, which will help citizens commute and make their lives easier for all of us, both on the Austrian and on the Hungarian side. I think it is also important to talk about our excellent relationship with Slovakia, this is a success story, and we hope it will continue in the future. Slovakia is the third most important trading partner in Hungary, and opening the bridge in Komárom in August is not just a symbol; and it will also be a huge step forward that the six new crossing points will be opened by 2022. I cannot avoid the importance of talking about the issue of integration in the Western Balkans. I am convinced that, after the coronal virus epidemic, the future and success of the European Union will be determined by its ability to integrate the Western Balkans or not. The Hungarian Government has consistently stood up for both Serbia and Montenegro's accession to the EU, and we consider it important for Montenegro to open the last chapter during the Croatian Presidency with the conclusion of the six accession chapters so far, as Montenegro has also gained considerable merit in the fight against illegal migration. [[13.40]] However, I think it is also important to talk about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is involved in part with Japan and partly with Canada about the cooperation and successes that we have had in recent years. In the case of Canada, I think it is important to mention that the mutual repatriation of both Canadian and Hungarian citizens has been extremely successful, and I would like to draw attention to the importance of it, which is also a week's fresh foreign policy step, since Canada is our NATO ally and has submitted its application to the UN Security Council. This will have an important role to play in terms of foreign affairs. And in the case of Japan, it is a great thing that the Secretary of State has indicated. I would like to stress that Hungary is one of the 30 countries in the world who received these medicines free of charge in the treatment of patients affected by the coronal virus, and I think that the Hungarian grey stock has always been famous in the world: it is a big deal if an opportunity for Japanese-Hungarian research cooperation will be opened in the future. In addition to all his success, I would also like to highlight what Minister for Foreign Affairs has been involved, and I would like to express my personal opinion on the letter from the Nordic countries to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. I think that this period should be about the control of the Crown Virus, and I agree with Minister for Foreign Affairs that no country has the right to question the democratic rule of law of our country, and I think that Hungary has done everything in its necessity and proportionality to all international organisations to make a clear position that we are committed to defending the Crown Virus, and that this kind of communication, which is an institutional undermining of open cooperation and dialogue in the EU, is invaluable. In addition, let me add that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe had the energy to write a critical letter about Hungary, but we have not yet seen energy from him on how to implement the protection against the coronal virus. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-12	Now it's László György Lukács.
u2020-05-18-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for the report. Allow me to begin my speech by thanking all the workers, all the social, health workers, families, rural and Budapest Hungarian people who helped defend themselves, and their own behaviour has helped to stop the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary until its current state. As regards your statement and your report, allow me to place a particular emphasis on what you rightly said was that health care had to be prepared to face this epidemic. In this context, it is critical that, although the fact that it should be prepared has been correctly recorded, it was not only about the preparation of health care, but also about preparing workers and patients for health care. This could have been done correctly if good and safe care could have been provided in hospitals as long as possible, and it could not have happened that patients would have come out on the one hand without care and, on the other hand, they could have prevented the development of focal points in hospitals, thereby otherwise endangering both the social institutions where the patients were typically placed and the workers who fought in the first line all along. What has been missing from this process so far, and now, after nearly 70 days, we can say that it is spectacular, that it is a question of transparency. He usually said what tools came and what quality and what they were, but basically no one saw in reality that he saw that he was a suitable protection tool for the population, or at the right moment for health workers. Unfortunately, the beginning of the epidemic was loud, and in this, I think it was the workers who indicated that it was loud because of the very few and very sporadic quantities of protective equipment needed for general doctors and institutions. After that, it seems that some changes have been made and improved, but the second stage has been loud because there are quality objections to certain instruments. What is, by the way, not only Hungary, but also the whole global supply chain, is that we are working with products that are ready and coming from China. Otherwise, this will raise the question of how worth it is for Hungary to get settled in such a way that it makes gestures specifically to China alone, and it will not be arranged for us to be able to cope properly in an epidemic that is otherwise predicted in the autumn or a year from now. In addition, I would like to ask you a question, because obviously this genre has now been created because it can answer questions. The first is when health institutions get their full capacity back. When can class benefits be returned, professional benefits that are currently absent and which in many cases cause frustration? The problem, of course, was not only that patients had to be sent home from hospitals, but that they had fallen away from the benefits they needed. Therefore, health workers are under double burden now, not only because of the crisis caused by the epidemic and its psychological causes, but also because of the increasing work and the pressure that is now coming. This leads to the following question: is the government willing to give an advance raise, an advance remuneration to health workers, so that this year, which is planned for 20%, will be included in their salary as soon as possible, and the 30 percent increase planned for the following year, will be included in their salary by August? As a third question, has the government seen a similar ambition to what happened in Italy, that organised crime, by buying in certain firms or industries in difficulty, wants to put itself in position in order to take over and attract future development resources or damage relief resources? As regards economic measures... By the way, I see this issue giving rise to confusion, and this is simply the question of whether there is a trend similar to that in Italy, that organised criminal circles want to put their hands on certain economic sectors in order to benefit from it later on. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You mean Soros?]] And the economic issue is this: would the government support the creation of a fund for the protection of jobs, although we are already a little late, which would be sustainable from an oligarch-based Mészáros tax, from which both workers and employers in distress could be protected? And what else are we talking about? We will have something to remember, Minister; we will remember when this epidemic is over and we will talk about measures, such as Viktor Orbán's statement that schools do not need to be closed, and in this case, if they were to be closed, he would send the workers on unpaid leave, but the schools still had to be closed. Or we could talk about what Gergely Gulyás said, that everyone here can infect themselves, which is right, that everyone should take the plague seriously, even though you have decided to relax, we all have to pay attention. Hungary must remain disciplined! Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-14	The word is Matthew the Car.
u2020-05-18-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Minister, First of all, let me begin by thanking all those involved in health protection, especially those working in health care, the social sector and law enforcement. I was very sorry to hear that it was only László Lukács who remembered them from the opposition, perhaps even Mr Keresztes, who might have deserved a few good words from the left-wing opposition who carried out the brigade of health protection, including our diplomats under the control of the Minister, in addition to health, social workers and law enforcement, and those who ensured that the country was prepared for health. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Allow me to say so much about the experience, Minister, thank you, but the experience is easy to draw from, but we do not know that it can still be used. We know that the pandemic seems to be shrinking, but what we don't know is that it will disappear forever from our lives. One thing we can be sure of, however, is that if it has another wave, it will reach the country more prepared than it previously did. It has also fallen into our experience system that Hungarian health has been able to fight this epidemic, and despite all the criticisms of Hungarian health, it has been able to respond quickly and to the proper level to this epidemic and to provide an adequate level of care for those who have been the victims of this epidemic. [[13.50]] I would also like to thank Minister for giving special attention to the ten thousand people who were brought home with the help of the Hungarian Government, our fellow countrymen who were stranded abroad. There is one thing that I am forced to say again that it is well-meaning, but it is still a criticism of the European Community, because we wanted to be part of the organisation, so that when there is trouble, we can count on the organisation. Instead of bringing our fellow Hungarians home, we received unjustified and unfounded criticisms; and no, my colleague Kocsis, this was not a mistake when they said that the Hungarian Parliament did not meet, but a simple, ordinary lie. Do you know what doesn't meet properly? The European Parliament and the Metropolitan Assembly. It does not meet properly, the Hungarian Parliament meets! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Special praise should be given to the businesses and companies that Minister has spoken of. An investment of 254 billion forints, which creates jobs, I think it will be visible in a country this size, and I would like to mark it right here and respond to one of Mr Arató's criticisms of the distribution of money to my friends. Well, let me get this straight, Congressman. First of all, don't let the red baron Tamás Leisztinger show up among the companies that create jobs, for example, because if he does show up, then you should apologize. The government is not reorganizing the economy on a political basis, and it is not creating jobs on a political basis, but on the basis of who can, who can, which Hungarian company is able to invest a lot of money and thus create jobs. And speaking of buddies, do you know which public body in Hungary has entered into a contract with your party president outside of the justification for an epidemic situation? The City Council, my honourable fellow Member. Gergely Christmas, who has not called the meeting of the Budapest Assembly to this day, has signed a number of cases; but I could also describe Mayor Niedermüller, whose biggest problem during the epidemic was to conclude contracts with DK party partners, including Csaba Czeglédy or Zoltán Komáromi. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And to my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, I am obliged to bring a brief reaction here: on the one hand, in relation to wage increases in nurses, you pretend you do not know, even though you know precisely that in the period 2018-2022 the amount of the increase in nursing wages is 72 percent. And I find it difficult to accept a reference to the medical chamber, not just because the president of the Gyurcsányis regularly makes anti-government statements, but also because [[It's Bence of Turdai.]] because it was the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, it may have been such a smiling representative, but it is less smiling that the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, to whom the people would give his word, was holding in March that by mid-April there would be 60,000 infected in Hungary. [[It's a lot of noise. Interjection from the ranks of the governing party: The truth hurts!]] Sixty thousand infected. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what they used to scare people with. I ask for more silence, Congressman, it was difficult, but I have listened to you as well. To conclude, I would like to say to Minister that the Eastern Opening Policy that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has conducted has been examined, and I report that, in our view, it is well. Thank you very much, Minister. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-16	I now give the floor again to Minister.
u2020-05-18-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, class warrior logic is still on one side of Parliament. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Because the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that about the 416 Hungarian businesses that have applied for support so far, I have no idea whether they are Fideses or MSZPs or anything else. And I don't care, and I don't care, Your Honour, I don't care! Because if you were interested, in recent years, the institutions that belong to me would certainly not have provided support to companies called Wallis, for example, or companies owned by Tamás Leisztinger, or companies owned by János Kóka. What I'm trying to say is that all these companies have been supported. Why? Because I don't care who's fidesz or who's MSZP, because it's their economic success, fellow Members, Hungarian economic success! And these people, these entrepreneurs, these corporate owners, they give jobs to Hungarian people. That it doesn't matter to you, it has become clear here in the Hungarian Parliament several times, but it matters to us! Therefore, the hundreds of Hungarian companies who have probably asked for the government's help without their owner's party affiliation will receive our help to keep their employees. It is very strange when opposition parties calling themselves progressive argue that the government should support companies because they implement IT and technological developments. Here we hear that we support the low-skilled Hungarian workforce, and here we hear that we do not support IT and technological developments. Honourable Congressman, The invitation to tender is clearly written down, only those who keep all their employees can receive support. So my request, with all due respect, is that you read these signs, from beginning to end, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the success of health protection, I can say to you as a mere fact: according to statistics, Hungary has the fourth lowest number in the European Union in terms of diseases per million people. And with regard to those who have died per million, I would like to say that one person is many, of course, but for those who have died per million, we are 17 in the European Union. So the opinions that, for your part, try to criticize the quality of Hungarian health protection or the diligence of those working there are unfounded. They're baseless! The Hungarian doctors, the Hungarian nurses, the Hungarian nurses and the entire Hungarian health care system have passed the test, the doctors, nurses and nurses have done their best to ensure the best possible care even in these extremely difficult, unforeseen circumstances. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Regarding the intervention in our internal affairs and the statement by the Romanian President, I can tell you that we have criticised the President of Romania not because he somehow solved or did not solve some Romanian domestic political issue, but because he attacked the local Hungarian communities. And it is the duty of a Hungarian government to act. I do not know what the Romanian community in Hungary would have to do with the Crown Virus Act, so the criticisms on this basis in Hungary really should be appreciated as an intervention in internal affairs, but, again, we are not interested in the internal political issues of other countries until their local Hungarian national communities are injured. And as has been the case, we will continue to act on this issue. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] With regard to the state of the Hungarian economy, I can tell you that before the outbreak of the Crown Virus pandemic, we could say that Hungary had had the highest economic growth rate in the European Union, and we could also say that there have never been as many people in Hungary as before this year, of course, since the regime changed. The shift in the economy is characterised by an increase in average gross wages of 40% over two years in the case of new investments in Hungary. Finally, with regard to the economic reservation of organised crime, I can say, Mr honourable Member, that organised crime is in the interest of a weakened economy, because it is then that they can take up space. That's the kind of economy you want when you're trying to put aid in front of jobs, but we're not gonna let that happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-18	Ladies and gentlemen, We will now move on to the contributions made before the agenda announced by the factions. First I give the floor to Bence of Turdai.
u2020-05-18-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We have come to a sectional border, it is time to evaluate the past period and review our work. First of all, let's see how the health defense turned out. Here, first of all, I would like to thank the Hungarian people for their disciplined respect for the restrictions, especially those in Budapest, who were clearly the most disciplined of all Hungarian towns following the campaign of the Municipality of Budapest and Mayor Gergely Karácsony. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] But what Viktor Orbán said is also not true, unfortunately, that Hungary would have been the most successful defence country, and I will say only two numbers: in Slovakia, 28 people from a situation like ours, 462 have died in the coronal virus to this day; there are 20 times the difference, and the size of the two countries does not justify this. But it's not surprising, because they've been rotting down health care for ten years, and a prime minister who, according to his own statement, doesn't understand health care. But not only is he incompetent, but also the Minister of Health, Miklós Kásler, was unfit for this task, as has been proved. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: For you know how to do it.]] So they tried to hide the embarrassing numbers by poking around, hiding the data; and we heard production reports about purchases. Minister Szijjártó speaks of a small air bridge: every eight hours a plane from China landed every three minutes during the Berlin air bridge, which is called an air bridge. [[14.00]] But it's not that there's little material, it's that the distribution wasn't very successful. Defensive devices have not been delivered in sufficient numbers and quality. But it was a greater sin to evacuate hospital beds in the number that happened, along with 40 times overinsurance, that thousands of people were sent home, who were often lost, lost by loved ones. You may know the story of Terike, the Crown Virus Widow; half a million people saw on Szabó Timea's Facebook page in one day how her husband became a victim of the epidemic completely unnecessary. Then let's look at the economic defense and see how they've done. Now they have betrayed themselves in the convergence programme, the famous large economic rescue package, the 18-20 percent GDP-related package, actually accounts for 4.5 percent of GDP, so it is not the package, but the lie on a historical scale. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: That's right.]] And the total amount of this package is 0.37 percent, which is separated into job protection steps, so it's closer to zero than 1 percent. That's your big economy-saving package. But by saving the multinationals and the giant companies of fidesz oligarchs, it is the supply of workers, but we have seen many examples of this. Let's look at the social defense numbers. Here, performance is almost zero, as most of the hundreds of thousands of new unemployed do not receive any cash benefits. Nearly one million people have lost or lost their work income altogether. Compared to this, the Fidesz people in the committee voted today to stop executions, draw hundreds of thousands of people from their remaining small income or pension up to a third or half. There are three and a half million people in Hungary, out of eight million adults who do not have 100 thousand forints of monthly income, and there are more than one and a half million children who do not receive at least 50 thousand forints of support. This is how Hungarian society stands today. Political defense, on the other hand, is going well, and the shift of responsibility is going great. Obviously, Gergely Christmas is responsible for everything, or if not, then Brussels, the opposition, Soros or anyone but you. Obviously, they learn this from China, where they also lie, and they have found a very specific way of pointing out to sinners. They're taking members of the political opposition, or even the Uighurs, to an internment camp. And here we see people being taken out of their homes early in the morning for Facebook posts. So China was able to learn, and the Fidesz communist tempo works. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Shame on you!]] What should be done in the next period that has been missed? Real job protection, extended unemployment benefit, introduction of basic income for crisis management, taxing Lőrinc Mészáros and other fidesz oligarchs to finance it; introducing double wages in health care, a 100% wage increase; and ensuring free and quality health care for all because we see where the collapse of the health system leads. Finally, a green economy-enhancing programme should be launched instead of this blabbering which has been carried out here itself, which results in a man-centred economy, where there is income security, where there are high-quality jobs, where there are high wages, in short: the northern model should now finally be approached in redesign, as the Scandinavian countries and not Russia and China, as the Orbán policy does. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-18-20	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-05-18-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, He mentioned a lot of things. Let's start with, say, economic proposals. Basic income: so the essence of your proposal is that you can get money without work, not even a little. Considering that the State can provide such a benefit through taxes, this means that the bill should be made available to taxpayers, i.e. those who work. This is not a small step, but rather a leap, jumping to a time when it was worth living on welfare more than on work; a time when unemployment was 12 percent. This is a time we don't want to see again. [[Bence Tordai keeps interrupting.]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, since you are referring to Scandinavia, this basic income proposal in Finland has failed badly. To quote a left-wing business paper: according to political parties and trade unions, the experiment did not work because it did not stimulate the unemployed, it only consumed public money. As far as the economic impact is concerned, we have not forgotten how they discussed this epidemic a few weeks ago. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] Your politician, Benedek Jávor, said, and I quote, let us not forget that this is a relatively harmless epidemic. In fact, under less dramatic circumstances, we can test the stress tolerance of our social, economic and health systems. He also said that this is a relatively inexpensive call for attention is relatively cheap! Now, that was your suggestion, that was your assessment. Do you know when? End of March. While this government set up the operational tribe at the end of January. So much for who could predict the consequences of this epidemic. And, by the way, let's ask you how you helped protect against the epidemic. With a lot of mine work. First, the government was attacked by providing protective equipment to Hungarians across the border. In the meantime, it was claimed that the workers in the motherland would not receive them. This is the most shameful continuation of the policy of 5 December. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interpretings at the same place: That's right!]] Then they made a false statement about death statistics. They said we had the worst situation in the world. On the other hand, if we project it to 100,000 people, 79 people died in Belgium, 59 in Spain, 52 in the UK, 36 in Sweden and 5 in Hungary. And if you compare the Hungarian numbers to Slovakia, you know very well that the patients who have suffered from other diseases are not counted into the deceased; they are counting on other statistics. Honourable Congressman, If you're done yelling, I'd like to go over one more thing. Over the last few months, the whole country has come to know Müller Cecília, and I think that millions of people in Hungary have recognised his capacity for work and his humility. And how did you support his work? With an embarrassing video. He was constantly insulted, from Jobbik to Gábor Kuncze. The chief of staff got up early every morning, attended the meetings of the operational tribe, was available to the press for hours, and besides! He was controlling the disease control. Since you will certainly not be thanking yourself, we will do so here: thank Muller Cecilia for his humble stand. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] If we were to wear hats here in the House, we would definitely raise them now. Thank you for that. And speaking of action, your mayor has reached the top of what he's really strong in the last week. He's really strong at one thing: indecisiveness and pointing to other things. Not long ago, he lobbyed for strict restrictions, and soon thereafter he called them punishment. During the epidemic, his position depended on the current wind or what he had read and what he had heard last. He did deal with the speed limits, yeah. If a leader is unable to make a decision, it becomes truly spectacular in a crisis situation, and there is no harshness and a loud sign on the suggestion of PR advisors that can hide it. So, the only thing we ask, honourable Member, is that the absence of decisions in the capital city, Budapest, should not be blamed on the government. Less responsible Facebook entries and more action would have been better and would have been better in the future. It is still not too late, for example, to strengthen the protection of nursing homes. And I'm asking you not to take responsibility, but to take responsibility, especially when it comes to a crisis. If it doesn't happen, it's going to be the time of reckoning sooner or later. We're not gonna do this, we're gonna do it to their own voters. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, we wish you good work. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Bence of Turdai: 2022...]]
u2020-05-18-22	It is now time for the group leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes.
u2020-05-18-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must refer it back to it, and here in the debate preceding the speeches before the agenda, some unworthy statements were made. I think that, regardless of which side of the parliamentary horseshoe we are sitting on, we should all be grateful and grateful for all the work that is being done to protect the lives, health and safety of Hungarian people. I have never heard anyone on the opposition side say that they criticized the defense workers. I think it is certainly unworthy in a parliamentary debate to attribute such a statement to opposition representatives, in any political group. I definitely thought it was important that I refer you back to this. The other: I do not wish to open the debates here on the special legal order, but you see a self-confirmation that, well-well, Parliament is working. We never said that Parliament wouldn't work, but we could do that... [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, including: Protocol...]] I myself, Congressman, and our faction has never said... [[Intruder from the benches of the ruling parties.]] That doesn't matter, and I'd like you to speak to him when he gets a chance to do that, don't yell at me, but on the other side, it could be reversed. We have drawn attention to the fact that we are ready for Parliament's work, so the past period has shown that they could have brought before Parliament the most important decisions made by way of regulation under the special legal order, there would have been no obstacle to that. [[14.10]] But I think that we will have this debate when we get to the point where we can say that the epidemiological situation is over. However, it should be pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, that you, the government, are taking a series of measures that seriously affect local governments. We know that in the epidemiological situation, the municipalities were and will be the number one bastions of protection in the next period, and likewise the municipalities must be put in a position to keep them in a position where, if they do not give, another wave would occur, or these challenges would rise again, they should be able to carry out those tremendously important tasks. Unfortunately, your government's work is not in this direction, because there are constant very, very severe, severe restrictions on the municipalities, and these restrictions have basically been made on the grounds that this particular economic protection fund and the financing basis for the control of the epidemic have been provided. I pointed out in the debate before the agenda that on Friday, however, you took 80 billion forints from this fund and used it to develop the unreasonable Budapest-Belgrád railway line. I have also pointed out that from only HUF 80 billion, you will launch a job creation, wage support action or programme, and will spend 140 billion on this completely unsubstantiated investment. So 125 thousand jobs are being sacrificed to implement this gigantic project, which in itself is nothing more than building, laying concrete and other elements, but this will have no verifiable benefits for the Hungarian nation and the Hungarian economy. But turning back to the municipalities: it had an amazing effect on the withdrawal of the car tax, and a great many municipalities, specifically two thirds of small settlements, caused liquidity problems. However, it is already clear that the new provision, whose legal debate is still ahead of us, is expected this week to propose so-called special economic zones, the essence of which is that the government can effectively take some investments from the municipalities, take them away from the cities, and give the related assets and properties to county municipalities with fidesz management everywhere. It should only be clear that local governments are being attacked here, that the municipalities are being directly affected by these measures, but these will be extremely serious problems for the Hungarian people, because the municipalities must maintain the most important public services. Thus, these cities and settlements lose these very, very important revenues, from which the supply of drinking water must be maintained, kindergartens must be maintained, renovated, or the municipal roads must be trashed or garbage transported. What is the explanation of this, my honourable members of the Government? I ask the present members of the government why they think that local governments should be punished, and in this way we must take away the extremely important resources that are essential to the service of the Hungarian people who live there. In this way, these services are indeed at risk. We see even a very serious contradiction in several directions. On Wednesday, the Parliament will discuss a certain bill concerning the transport system, which will in practice open the privatisation of inter-urban public transport. This is done in such a way that we have discussed this here before, that the government has not prepared the Hungarian transport system for this other side of the EU. This is an extremely dangerous process, and it is again a very serious problem for the Hungarian people. Just as the decision to cash in in the earlier citation sign to require the municipalities to finance public transport first from the use of the business tax, in Hungarian the State withdraws from the financing of this extremely important service. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-24	I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2020-05-18-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, every country, including Hungary, will have to take account of what experience it is worth drawing from the current pandemic in both health and economic and other aspects. One of these lessons is that today the world as a whole is practically dependent on an external source when it comes to manufacturing and importing products and tools for health protection. We don't buy everything from China for our own amusement, almost everything from China, but because we can buy these tools there. If there were production capacities in Europe to such an extent that they could be used to a substantial extent in procurement, we would obviously be able to take them into account. There are a few. It's not enough. All of these have been mapped and purchased from where they might be. But I think that we need to go beyond that and think about creating our own production capacities in the first place. This is the case with regard to the production of respirators or masks, where we are already in different stages of building our own manufacturing capabilities. But also important logistical conclusions can be drawn from the current pandemic. One such logistical conclusion is that China will in no way weaken in terms of its role in world trade. As trade flows between the European Union and China have grown dynamically over the last few years and exports from China to the EU countries have increased dynamically, this will certainly continue to be the case in the future. One of the reasons for this is that China was first hit by the virus, which is why it is further ahead in terms of coming out of the virus, according to our current knowledge. Therefore, the Chinese economy will continue to be decisive from a European point of view, Chinese goods will continue to arrive in Europe at an increasing pace and Chinese goods will arrive either by rail or by air or by sea. A significant proportion of Chinese goods arriving by sea in Europe arrive at ports in Greece and are transported by rail from ports in Greece to Western Europe. If you look at the economic and trade relations between the countries of Western Europe and China, they will grow more dynamically than the trade relations between the Central European countries, including Hungary and China. So the question is, from this point on, a competition as to where goods will be delivered from southern Europe, south-eastern Europe, Greece, from China to Europe and destined for Western Europe. It is possible to say that we should not enter into this competition and go towards the Austrians or the Slovenians, but we recommend that we enter this competition, renew the railway line connecting Belgrade to Budapest so that it can offer a competitive freight time. Mr President, this investment creates jobs, not only in building, but also in operating it creates jobs, whether it is for logistics, services or other sectors. As far as the special economic zones are concerned, honourable Member, I can tell you this: we are not taking any investments from anyone. Why would we marry her? It is in our interest to invest in Hungary. Where these investments come from within Hungary is already a secondary issue, first we need to win these investments to come to Hungary. And yes, there are settlements in the country that, simply by their size, may not be able to act as an appropriate negotiating partner for a large global company. Therefore, in the case of certain large investments, for example, if the world's largest electric battery plant is being built, I think it is important that the state can also provide the best possible conditions for that investment by creating a special economic zone. Honourable Congressman, When an investment goes somewhere, it will bring new revenues. So we're not taking money from anyone here, because a new investment will definitely mean new business tax revenue to the locality, regardless of who is to determine it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that the development of infrastructure, the large ones, is always carried out by the state, so that the creation of economic development zones in this respect does not change. It causes a change by increasing Hungary's ability to invest even further, so that we can continue to maintain the constant increase in investment in Hungary and the number of jobs they create. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-26	It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn.
u2020-05-18-27	Ladies and Gentlemen, At a time when some of the emergency restrictions have been alleviated, we can say that, despite the risk of viral infections, some of the long-term tasks of government action and intervention have been completed. So, if not a final, but a temporary opinion on what we have seen in recent weeks and months. [[14.20]] My simplest opinion can be summarized in a word: what you have done is terrible. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] There are relatively clear facts here. Let's start with these. However, it still requires an explanation of how 128 of the 1,000 sick people in Hungary eventually died. How? Please, if you take a half-circle, say, from Croatia to the west of Slovakia, we take more than 20 million people into account, and 20 million people, the mortality rate was less than half that. Tell me, do you think that's okay? You've decided to clear 36,000 beds. To do this, thousands of patients and people before surgery had to be sent home. Finally, it turned out that a few percent of the beds thus liberated were not needed, while these measures were backed by a multitude of human dramas and tragedies. It was your choice, no matter what. I think it's terrible. You may be excellent at telling a good butcher how to behave this is an important knowledge, but it seems to me that to appreciate the impact of such an epidemic and to take appropriate measures, which is essentially your job, in which you remain indebted to the nation. Different independent research companies say that about 300 to 400 thousand people lost their jobs in the last month. Compared to this, you said that you would make the largest economic rescue and recovery package in Hungarian history. Since then, in just these days, we know that not 18-20 percent of GDP has been moved for this purpose, you have written to Brussels in the last few days, but write and say less than 0.4 percent for job protection. Tell me, do you think that's okay? [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: It is not so!]] I don't think it's okay. And those who think that this is not the case read the government's report, which is an accessible and official report. They say it's okay that in just one day the school education has been done with so much that there will be digital education, which, of course, the schools weren't prepared for, only a small part of the families are prepared, some of the children are prepared, thank God there are families in this situation, but then many are not prepared at all. Not only is it a tool, but the necessary knowledge and methodology are not available. What they're doing to local governments is drama. What they did by applying the muzzle law is completely inhumane. You know that. But there's a bigger problem here that goes way beyond numbers. Can you imagine the terror of people who started their day every day by studying your statistics, how the epidemic is spreading, and you know that these statistics cannot be trusted? Have you ever experienced the drama of those whose relatives have been sent home to take care of these people from now on without knowledge, opportunity, training? They've been through it once, and they've had one sane, empathetic sentence about what parents do when they leave a child who doesn't have access to school, and the parent can't turn on his computer because he doesn't or doesn't know how to do it? Did they say one sentence that it's between us, and we're gonna suffer for it, and we're gonna do it? No! You played soldiers, and you thought the country was a soldier. No, ladies and gentlemen, people have suffered here, and you've been ignoring it for a minute, and that's the real horror. [[Applause from DK's ranks. Dr. László Pósán: Why are you insulting me again?]]
u2020-05-18-28	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-05-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as statistics are concerned, if I recall correctly, you did not come to the House when this was mentioned, so I am sorry about those who were already here, but I would like to repeat: if we project the number of deaths to 100,000 people, 79 in Belgium, 59 in Spain, 52 in the United Kingdom, 36 in Sweden and five in Hungary. That's a lot, but when you say we're worse than other countries, you're just lying. By the way, I agree that I think it is worthwhile to appreciate the past few weeks. The evaluation includes, for example, the preparation of health care for the epidemic and the fact that, in terms of the number of deaths relative to the population, Hungary is among the effectively defensive countries. The good news is that the number of active infected is on a downward trend. What you're talking about, among other things, about bed numbers, is proof that we managed to avoid tens of thousands of people being hospitalized and thousands of thousands of people on a ventilator. The only reason I'm bringing this up is because even a few weeks ago, you announced in a paid ad that there is no ventilator in Hungary. They also tried to mislead the Hungarians there. Well, the other lesson, which is also general, is sadder: it turns out that when there is trouble, left parties cannot be expected at all. Not to your party, not to the basic organizations of the Gyurcsány Party, MSZP, Jobbik and Dialogue. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] During the weeks of the plague, you have not taken off the party's political blinders for a single minute. They were just looking at it. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] They were just watching how they could cross the government. It starts with the fact that they did not vote for a more effective defence law, but they did not stop here, they also spread lies about it, such as the fact that Parliament will not meet. That lie didn't stop until CNN. So, when the National Assembly puts an end to this emergency emergency, a quiet apology can be roughed up. By the way, this is for all opposition parties. Then let us not forget that Hungarians have been systematically misled, including in relation to mortality data, with your former candidate, who is an ex-chief physician, even admitted that, compared to many neighbouring countries, mortality figures in Hungary are low. Where it was supposed to be done, they didn't do it. For example, the elderly homes in the capital were not prepared for the epidemic, because if they had been prepared, this would not have been the case, and this is clearly the responsibility of the left-wing city administration. Your rampage has an economic aspect, which we talked less about: a campaign has been launched to prevent the government from deciding on EU funds. You and your wife agreed to this campaign. This would mean that Hungary would receive less money, and now you are campaigning for it. So at a time when we have to double-defense all jobs, when every investment counts, when we need to strengthen our economic autonomy, you will come and take away EU money. It's very difficult to find words for that. The term you love is too easy and too soft. It's actually a lousy policy, because it's actually not about the government, it's about the whole country. I could ask you, quote, that you think it's okay. No, it's not okay, because all these weeks we've had the feeling that you've been rooting for a failure to control the epidemic. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is paranoia!]] probably because they thought it would hurt the government, and you in the opposition would have a better chance in 2022. That's all they had in mind. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Everyone starts from themselves, my brother!]] Now we can say it later, that's all. I would like to say to you that the election is still very far away, we will have many debates here, but we can already enter in the minutes that you have turned your back on Hungary at a very difficult time, because while the Hungarians have raised the walls of the defence cooperation ever higher and higher, I would also say that from brick to brick, in your hands we have seen nothing but punch drills and destroy everything they have seen, what I understand. Don't expect much credit for it. I can assure you that we will not forget this, and I believe that neither will the Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-30	The group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth, is next.
u2020-05-18-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic is fading, but there are very instructive months behind us. The first lesson is that regulation governance has not worked. You were not dealing with a crisis, you were baking your own steak, you were starting a revenge campaign against Gergely Christmas, against the people of Budapest and against the opposition-led settlements. Local governments were hindered by proper defence, while Lőrinc Mészáros and the Fidesz elite were rewarded with a further ten billion from the joint. You know perfectly well that to control and control this epidemic, we would not need a special legal order. From procurement to the appointment of hospital commanders until each activity is banned, they have all the rules at their disposal. [[14.30]] Therefore, it is time to abolish the special legal order, it is time to repeal the authorisation law, and it is time to give the National Assembly its licenses back. The MSZP has made its proposal today. The second lesson is that the current health management model and management have failed. There was a lack of resources and a bloody medical system against the plague, underpaid doctors and nurses. The fact that we had only gone through the epidemic with such loss was due in substance to their sacrifice and to the discipline of the people. Even though Miklós Kásler said the opposite in February, it turns out that there wasn't enough protective equipment in the front line, they weren't prepared for the outbreak. With the suspension of basic medical care, sudden evacuation of hospitals, human lives were put at risk, families were put in an impossible position. And the fact that they've been hiding data that older people have been infected in hospitals instead of healing shows precisely the system's inability to control. That is why we recommend that you have an independent medical wallet with a competent manager. We need more money for health care, and we need to increase salaries in line with the proposals of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, because everyone has to have a chance to heal. We demand that you begin the conversions immediately. The third lesson is that the Orbán government has not been able to stop the economic crisis resulting from the epidemic. The Hungarian rules on wage support failed to stop the company's drop-off wave. By 8 May, 3953 companies applied for wage support for a total of 53 880 employees, worth HUF 8.7 billion. Up until 8 May, only 6.8 percent of the applications submitted were positive and 2.2 percent were rejected. In other words, less than 300 companies have received aid worth 600 million forints so far. For example: In the Czech Republic, 42 thousand companies applied for wage subsidies for 200,000 workers on 27 April, and 50 percent of them were paid. That's why we demand that you ease the wage support rules, give companies a chance to keep their employees and keep their companies alive, the government takes over 80% of their wages, 80% of their contributions, and not just the time they lose. If we are now reading the news that they want to create 70,000 jobs out of 80 billion, then I am asking why they are giving 82 billion on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, why they will not save 70,000 more jobs. The fourth is such a lesson that the Orbán government has not stopped the social crisis resulting from the epidemic. The promise to pensioners will only be fulfilled next year with regard to the 53rd week pension. They didn't raise the child, the law, the maternity allowance, the ones who stayed home, who took care of their children after school closure. They did not help those who had to take care of their relatives after they were sent home from hospitals. There was no help from local governments, those working in nursing homes, nor did they receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 in the social sector, just like in health care. Therefore, the social network must be strengthened, the pension increase should be brought forward, and we demand that, once the 13th month pension is introduced, it should happen in a single amount, so that lower pensions can be caught up. The fifth lesson is that it's not really a question of money, because there's money. More than 150 billion forints were spent on hunting exhibitions, arms procurement, posters campaign, church heritage conservation, stadiums, Budapest-Belgrád railway. It is time for action, ladies and gentlemen. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Instead of propaganda, spend on this, for our future together, for Hungary! Thank you.
u2020-05-18-32	Once again, Minister Peter Szijjártó has the floor.
u2020-05-18-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, That there may be, and there are, disputes between us, and that sometimes or not sometimes, where appropriate, there are harsher terms between Parliament's walls, we can get used to it, and we can take it for granted. But I'm asking you to keep these debates between yourselves and not insult people who have no right to insult you in any way. During today's parliamentary session, you have repeatedly incriminated those honest Hungarian businesses who are asking the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, for support, support and help to protect jobs. You ask us why we do not give more support and then incriminate those who apply for support. You claim that the 416 Hungarian companies that have so far requested financial support to protect jobs through investment or the more than a hundred Hungarian companies who have asked for working capital or investment loans in the context of new preferential opportunities have done so for some kind of unfair purpose. I ask you, fellow Members of the opposition, not to do this, not to incriminate these Hungarian businesses. These are honest Hungarian companies, who are now willing to invest in the current world economy. I think we should talk about them in the voice of respect and thanks, because they are the ones on whom we can not only save and restore the Hungarian economy, but we will be able to make it successful once again in the coming new world economy era. I would like to reiterate that until this morning, 526 companies operating in Hungary have asked for support with the willingness to invest a total of HUF 254 billion in order to keep 93 650 jobs. This is a great success, my honourable fellow Member, and it is a great success that the number of these companies is rising dynamically and day by day. Originally, we started this program by approving 50 billion forints by the government, then we doubled the framework to 100 billion last Wednesday by adding that if the number of businesses that are demanding continues to increase and the amount they require will rise to this framework again. Because aid of HUF 120 billion can already be a positive decision for these companies, since they meet all the legal criteria. I also respectfully inform you that in the traditional Hungarian industries, the food industry, the construction industry, the metal industry and the automotive industry, these companies have submitted the most investment support requests. And when you accuse businesses here of political bias who are asking for support, I ask you: all Hungarian small businesses to whom we will give 0.1 per cent working capital loans and hundreds of candidates are in line, would they all be committed to a political side? Would you stand before these entrepreneurs and tell them to their faces? Today, three companies have announced publicly that they have received support from the government for their investment in order to save thousands of jobs. Would you stand before the person running the Hungarian medium-sized enterprise who is now buying a new establishment in Mernya, Somogy County, that you are fidesz because you received this support? Dear fellow Member, I would like to ask you not to accuse or incriminate these Hungarian businesses in connection with any kind of unfairness, thanks to whom Hungarian jobs will remain. I would also like to tell you that when you criticize the operation of health care, just think for a moment that if you had been able to carry over your visitation fee plan and there was a visitation fee in Hungarian health care, how could the action against the coronal virus have taken place? What would this have had for Hungarian patients? And when we talk about the 13th month pension, of course we will keep our promise, just as we will keep our promise for health workers, because my request is that they do not start on their own. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-34	Now it's James Peter's turn.
u2020-05-18-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Two months ago, you asked for unlimited power for unlimited time so that you could deal effectively with the crisis. However, since this is clearly not going to work, we bettermen are calling on you to withdraw the power of attorney law, not at the end of May, not in June, not once, but now. Give up extraordinary power, because clearly you are using this power not for what you were asked to do, but for something else. [[14.40]] Colleagues, in recent times you have received all the financial and legal means to deal with the crisis. Yet, they could not prevent either the loss of jobs or the loss of people's lives. In countries where they moved quickly, where masks were distributed to the population and tested, the number of victims was minimized. In Slovakia, do you know how many people died? Twenty-eight. In Hungary, do you know how many? 462 [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] Thanks to the fact that in our country, the public did not receive protective equipment from the government, but such good advice that people under the age of 65 could safely infect each other and test each other otherwise unnecessary. The result is 462 dead. Fellow Members, you know, whoever has the power has the responsibility. It is also your responsibility that, in the course of a few weeks, 163 thousand jobs have been officially lost, estimated to be half a million jobs. In other countries, 70-80 percent of total labour costs were immediately taken over for workers in distress. Once again, all you've done for weeks is make superhero movies about Viktor Orbán, and then stand in front of those who are in trouble, so that you can get community service and go on as soldiers. Thank you very much. That's not helping us out. This is what your extraordinary power has brought to the average Hungarian. But what has he brought you? During the emergency weeks, Lőrinc Mészáros was able to pocket public procurements worth HUF 100 billion. Plus he built an experiential park for 20 billion, plus he received 17 billion for the Mátra Power Plant, plus ten years of encryption on what the other investment, the Budapest-Belgrád railway, increased from 700 to 1700 billion forints. But they also arranged for the Balaton Boat Zrt. to allow the Balaton campsites and ports to escape from the property of the state, even to the property of Lőrinc Mészáros. And if Balaton, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, has fallen from his father-in-law's chariot to the port development of HUF 2 billion; while the other friend, István Garancsi, received five casinos with a profit of ten billion a year, there is an emergency. Of course, we've gotten used to this because they've been doing this for years. At the same time, unlimited power has brought something out of you: your deepest self, your 30-year-old self. They showed us where you really came from. They showed me how to get policemen to take citizens who dare to criticize the government at dawn. They showed me how to nationalise private companies, as they did in Debrecen. They showed how to take away the assets, money and revenue of the opposition authorities. They showed us how to create a programme of 34 billion forints in Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan by playing a rich, friendly country, while a crowd of companies in Hungary are failing, which are likely to be bought by you again for pennies. So let's just say, fellow Members, that you are not living, but are abusing extraordinary power. You guys are putting patients out of hospitals, letting businesses go bankrupt, and the workers' trashing them with community service. And all you do is gain weight and gain weight and gain weight. And let the people eat well with billboards, right, for 6 billion? ! So I'm not surprised, fellow Members, that Lőrinc Mészáros has already got armored military vehicles on his property. But they're wrong. You're wrong to think that you can hide from being held accountable in combat cars. There's no hiding. I believe you're afraid of people's anger, I believe you. That's exactly why I'm asking you not to provoke us any longer. Resign now and immediately from extraordinary and unlimited power. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of the ruling parties.]] Resign, or if you can't do that, if you insist on unlimited power, then bear unlimited responsibility, because that responsibility will catch up with you. It will catch up with the Prime Minister, the members of the government, the representatives, the stooges, the local kings and anyone who has ever been involved in maintaining this depraved system. Fellow Members, I know, I can see that you love war and war with the whole world. But don't fight your own people, because you're gonna pull the short straw. I want you to revoke the power of attorney right now. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Intercom from the opposition benches: Bravo!]]
u2020-05-18-36	Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, A hundred years ago, he was born on May 18, II. Pope John Paul, and the following quote to his name is attached to his name: "The truth can only affect you with its own power, which gently and yet forcefully penetrates the minds."Well, of course, I accept the papal intent, and I could do no different, but I look forward to the fact that, after this speech, the truth will penetrate your mind with its own strength, mildly and yet forcefully, because it would be especially good for the genre of speeches before the agenda. You said in your speech and in your earlier speeches that the Hungarian Government is asking Parliament for a special mandate, and the Hungarian Prime Minister even asked Parliament for a special mandate because he wants to abuse it because he wants to build a dictatorship. As an aggravating circumstance, I would like to say that you didn't say this here in Parliament's walls, but specifically in public money, because you obviously called the Hungarians on the basis of the state support that you gave to the parties and told them on the phone: instead of what you proposed, the Hungarian Prime Minister asked you to govern yourself for as long as you wanted. The reality, on the other hand, is that we have used the power to control the health and economic effects of the disease to control the coronal virus, and when, thanks to the good God, as a result of the success and cooperation of the Hungarians, the outbreak has been prevented, we will give this mandate back to the Hungarian Parliament. The second thing: you also claimed in the case of economic consequences that nothing would happen. Dear Chief of Staff, The reality is, however, that the Hungarian government has announced a package of measures to protect the economy based on the principle of public burden-sharing, so the political department, the parties, municipal policy, banks and multinational companies are also involved in mitigating economic damage. What is really true, and there may be a difference between us here, but I think that reason and reason are on our side in this regard, too, we really do not want to put together an economic protection package that punishes workers who create jobs. We want to put together an economic protection package to help them keep jobs and create new ones. The third is health protection: we don't have enough equipment, we're playing with people's lives, we're not doing it at the right time, and you also said we weren't testing enough. On the other hand, the reality is that all institutions have the right equipment, as the colleagues have said, and the reality is that, on the basis of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office's mortality statistics, 42 000 people have unfortunately died during the first 16 weeks of 2020, but this is 8 percent less than in 2019. So, thank God, Hungary was able to defend itself with fewer deaths in 2020 than in 2019 when there was no coronal virus epidemic. It is also the case with regard to testing that we test three times as much as we consider WHO as an expert, as opposed to the MSZP, who would like to form a political opinion on this, so we test three times as much as the WHO recommendation. I don't know that Congressman watched, I had a big favourite show that went on television in the last few weeks and months, called Chernobyl, which is about political communication, and presented the operation of a real dictatorship. The last sentence of this series's last episode, Chernobyl, reads as follows: "With every lie told, we will be indebted to the truth. Sooner or later, you'll have to pay the price. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Team Leader, you've been caught up in your lies. Please pay the price. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms, among them: That's right!]]
u2020-05-18-38	Now it's Congressman Imre Vejkey's turn.
u2020-05-18-39	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Brussels, separated from the Roman Treaty and the principles of Roman law, returned to the communist practice of not listening to the defendant because he had already written his conceptual judgment before the indictment itself. All this quotes Péter Bacsó's film "The Witness" from the 1950s, but this has just happened, in May 2020, in the European Parliament, where they acted this way against our country. Now we are wrongfully accused, but tomorrow the Poles, the Czechs and the Slovaks the day after tomorrow, and then who knows who else is coming. [[14.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Brussels cynically transcends the truth, cynically transcends peoples and nations, because the new European empire is nobody and nothing, but its own power interests, its own power ideology, which ignores the Christian-Christian roots of Europe and denies its values. I'm familiar with this XX. From the history of the century. The Nazi Third Reich and the Communist Soviet Union acted in this way, and even formed an alliance to invade and divide the Molotov-Ribentrop pact between Poland, thus triggering World War II. Ladies and Gentlemen, In order to enforce Brussels' own imperial interests by fire and iron, to enforce its own interests by fire and iron, it is no longer on the basis of the law or the facts that it decides what is right or wrong, nor on the basis of the law and the facts that it does not decide what is right or wrong. Brussels is increasing its unjust imperial accusations against our country to absurdity, i.e. to obvious incompetences, so that Hungary's democratically elected legitimate government cannot respond freely to the unfounded accusations raised by the empire. It's freaky. It is daunting that the Italian left-wing President of the European Parliament continues to play roles, trying to deprive Hungary of its reserved sovereignty. The Italian left-wing President of the European Parliament already determines who can represent the independent Hungarian government in Brussels in the EP debate against Hungary. This procedure is an intervention in the affairs of the independent Hungarian government. This procedure violates integrity and reminds me of dictatorship. Ladies and Gentlemen, The rule of law and decency are our basic values. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] With the democratic commitment of the Fidesz-KDNP, the imperial centre in Brussels is well aware of it, but they are still falsely and deceitfully pretending that we are undermining democratic values. The imperial centre in Brussels should be sweeping its own house on the issue of democracy, not dealing with Hungary of the rule of law, and not in the form of a conceptual trial. Ladies and Gentlemen, There's a limit to everything. I believe that the latest unjust attack on Hungary by the imperial centre in Brussels cannot go without diplomatic consequences. Remember, today we are being attacked without foundation by the same people who rose up against us yesterday because of the rejection of illegal migration. What is happening in the European Parliament is more than disappointing and even pathetic. This is embarrassing. It is a shame that even in the midst of a coronal virus epidemic, the BSS, the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros Imperial Attack Team, does not rest. [[Uproar and clarity in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] they are not shaken by the 160,000 European victims, they are not shaken by the fact that millions have become unemployed, they are not shaken by the Hungarian people's fight against the virus, because even in this situation they are dealing with the attack on Hungary. But whatever they do to us, Hungary is still our first. Go, Hungary! Go, Hungarians! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Various applause and interruptions in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2020-05-18-40	It's Secretary of State again.
u2020-05-18-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The attack of the international liberal mainstream on Hungary is not new, let us not pretend to be surprised. Since 2010 we have been ruling, we are confronted with the fact that the political, economic and media representatives of the international liberal mainstream are unable to deal with the patriot government on a national basis, which we have been given three times a two-thirds mandate from the Hungarian people to implement.Since 2010, we have been constantly confronted with double standards in international political debates, we are constantly confronted with the phenomenon of political correctness and we are constantly confronted with bias. And it has become clear now that what makes us critical, if it is done by other countries, then no one will blame us, then none of the European institutions will feel the importance of speaking. Fundamental European values are being undermined, for example, in relation to the rights of national communities in Europe, yet all European institutions are silent. Or it also turned out that if someone reorganizes their judicial system in Western Europe in the same way, then the problem is that if it is in Central Europe, it is a step towards dictatorship. Hungary, Poland and the Central European countries in general face this double standard quite often. However, in recent times, these debates have reached a more serious level, given that the pandemic caused by the corona virus has brought dangers to Europe that we have not yet faced, and this is true from an economic and health point of view. While hundreds of thousands of people were infected and tens of thousands lost their lives in Europe, European political leaders, the President of the European Parliament, or the leaders of European party families, or even the colleagues of the Northern Foreign Minister, or even the Greek Prime Minister, did such a fantastic job that they had time to worry about the Hungarian Crown Virus Act, and it was relatively soon that they did not read the law because when we sent it to them, they were surprised, although we are talking about a relatively easy-to-digest, fast-read, barely three-page text. They had time to worry about it, they had time to spread lies about it, and they had time to participate not only in international pseudo-news production but also to participate actively. We can remember when it was said for days or weeks without any sense of shame that Parliament does not meet in Hungary, and this may fall into the category of error in Hungarian political debates now, if possible, but this is a category of lie. That is why I think, ladies and gentlemen, that, because of these attacks, we could pull off our shoulders, smile at their tongues on those who grind us, but let us not, because we represent a nation of more than a thousand years old; a nation of more than a thousand years old that does not ask for a lesson and does not ask for a lecture. Rather, let us ask you where an Italian President of the European Parliament, whether a Danish Foreign Minister or a Finnish Foreign Minister, or a Norwegian Prime Minister, takes the liberty of thinking that he knows better what is good for Hungarians than the Hungarians' elected representatives or even the Hungarians themselves. We do not think that we should tell ourselves what is good for the Danes or the Norwegians or the Finns, because they will decide that, then if they like what their current government is doing, they will vote for them in the next election, if they don't like it, then they will vote against them, and we have nothing to do with it, just as others have nothing to do with what the Hungarian people decide and what they want. And the questioning of the maturity and ability of Hungarians to make decisions about their own future is unacceptable. Therefore, despite the ridiculousness of the accusations against us, we cannot go past them with a shrug, but we must always act clearly, clearly, loudly and clearly protect Hungarian people and Hungarian national interests. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-42	This is the last day before the final agenda, on behalf of Máté Kocsis. I give you the floor.
u2020-05-18-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We do not know that we are past the pandemic, but we do know what has happened in the past two months, and it is clear that the pandemic will be a serious economic issue not only in Hungary but also worldwide in the next period. In 2010, the Hungarian government set a work-based economy, and in ten years it promised about one million jobs, the 960 thousand new jobs that have been created since 2010 prove this, and the devastating effects of the corona virus cannot change this objective. [[15.00]] Therefore, the measures taken by the Hungarian Government in recent years are important. Obviously, the most important thing in the coming period is to restart life, and it is also very important that it be part of the protection and reinforcement of the economy, and I would like to talk about some measures in this context. I think it's very important, and it's an expression of a strong intention that the government will create as many jobs as the virus has destroyed. The economic protection action plan also devotes a significant part to this, protecting jobs and creating new ones, which is why the government offers wage support, for example, so that employers can keep the vulnerable workforce, but they also support job protection through tax reductions, offer a zero-percent loan to businesses, and the government also suspends the obligation to repay loans. Economic protection measures affect many people: 150,000 small businesses, 60,000 families with small children, and hundreds of thousands of businesses, including students and bank debtors. So far, the government has spent more than 600 billion forints on defence and thousands of billions in support of families and businesses. What is particularly important, however, is the reduction in taxes and administrative burdens in emergencies as well. At the same time, it can be said that only three Western European states are Germany, Italy and Sweden, which spend more than Hungary on helping businesses in proportion to GDP. I would also point out here that the 2021 budget ahead must also serve the economic protection action plan, investment and job creation. This is how we, for our part, will be able to support it. Allow me to think more about the wage support system. It has already helped tens of thousands of businesses, but 5400 businesses have submitted applications in this programme for nearly 72 thousand workers today. This means that on average more than 160 thousand forints per employee have been applied for state aid. This shows that companies and workers consider this a suitable and good tool to solve the temporary problems caused by the crisis. It is particularly welcome that government agencies will decide on these claims very quickly within 8 days. Here, too, I would like to make a brief reference to investments. In order to alleviate the economic damage caused by the epidemic, it is also crucial to stimulate investment. Minister Szijjártó has already spoken about it today, but it may not hurt to emphasise it even in order to take advantage of these opportunities, the companies concerned with the possibility that these planned investments will also help create new jobs and protect the former. The Government has also decided to double the support framework for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the National Investment Agency programme for these enterprises. More than 400 companies have applied to the programme so far, making 73,000 additional jobs involved in this defence package. Shortly before me today, my colleague Ferenc Gyurcsány asked me whether what the government is doing is okay. Before we answer that question, or everyone answers it to themselves, I can't help but ask whether it's okay that when they were on the government, they were thinking only about austerity. I'm telling you what the recipe in their head looked like. We had to take the money, take the 13th month pension, raise the retirement age, take a month's wages from the civil servants, reduce the sick and family benefits, get the family allowance involved, raise the VAT rate, the property tax, and do nothing for 200,000 people who have lost jobs. Is that okay? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-44	Once again, I give the floor to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fraction Manager began with a look back for 2010, when we were indeed experiencing a year in which the global economic crisis was particularly difficult. It was the first time that the Hungarian people gave the parties, who are currently ruling, two-thirds permission to put the country's affairs in order and to put the country's economy in order as soon as possible. We have more authority than structural reforms. Technically, we were given the authority and the call to reconstruct the economy at that time. This was also necessary, given that our public debt-to-GDP ratio in 2010 was above 85 per cent, unemployment was 12.5 per cent, there was a budget deficit of around 7 per cent at the moment, and we can also recall that with the economic policy model left to us by our predecessors at the time, 1.8 million taxpayers were trying to turn the country's economy into operation. So in a country of 10 million, 1.8 million taxpayers had to bear all the burdens. Compared to this, by the end of 2019 Hungary was able to show the fastest economic growth rate in the European Union, never as many people have worked in Hungary as at the end of last year, and 4.5 million taxpayers instead of 1.8 million in 2010 operate the Hungarian economy with over 800 000 new jobs created in nine years. We can remember that, because Mr. Group Leader recalled that we were talking about creating a million new jobs in ten years. We can remember economists calling themselves experts, who have spoken in a row, laughed at the target, and made their very important ideas public. Exactly the same economists want to give us advice now, some from here, from the parliamentary benches, about what we should do now. If we had listened to them then, in 2010, Hungary would have gone further down the slope on which the former socialist governments pushed it, and today we would not be talking about Hungary starting preparations for the new world economy from a very good economic basis. The same economists who laughed at the plans for a million new jobs in the ten years, those economists now say where they should go. This is a great help to us because we know precisely that we have to do the opposite of what they say, because we did exactly the opposite in 2010, and then we succeeded. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation in the global economy shows that a whole new competition will be launched, with completely new rules and new powers. This is why it is important to pay particular attention to those businesses in the current difficult circumstances and to support businesses who are willing to invest in new technologies, are willing to retain their employees, because these businesses, these companies, will be the basis for Hungary's success in the new world economy. So I suggest that we in no way allow today's entirely new opposition to not support our businesses in the acquisition of new IT and new technology tools. Ladies and gentlemen, We will also go further with regard to the reduction of taxes on labour. It is possible to create jobs and raise salaries and improve by constantly reducing the tax burden on companies' shoulders. We will therefore continue to reduce the social contribution tax three years ago, and we will reduce this tax rate by 2 percent from 1 July this year to 15.5 percent. Because the renewal of the Hungarian economy, the preparation of the Hungarian economy for a new era, the protection of Hungarian jobs and the creation of new jobs are only possible through investments; there is no aid available. It is therefore necessary to support investment and to pay attention to companies that are willing to take these decisions in the current circumstances. And the fact that there are such companies everywhere in the country clearly shows that aid under EUR 800 000, my fellow Members, has come from all counties of the country, and we will, of course, support all of them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-46	Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't exactly sure. The fact that the last agenda will be followed only applies to the contributions announced in advance by the parties, as now Félix Farkas is speaking before the Roma minority agenda, for a period of five minutes. I'll give the floor to the speaker. Here you go. [[15.10]]
u2020-05-18-47	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Nazi era has left a mark on people. History is known for the time when the Nazi idea sent many people, including the Roma, to their deaths. 76 years ago, nearly 6,500 gypsies came to know that they would be gassed on 16 May and their barracks would be destroyed. Thousands of Roma were waiting for him to die. In the largest Nazi destruction camp of World War II, the extermination complex near Birkenau, finally on May 16, 1944, the Gypsy camp joined together and no one came out at the bell of their death. Their fear was overcome because they wanted to live. The inhabitants of the Zigeunerlager resisted and persisted. They were heroes. No Roma have died in the gas chambers on this day. Even today, there is still little talk at international level about the Roma Holocaust, Pharrajimos, even though the number of Roma eradicated during the Holocaust is estimated to be 220 thousand. It's a pain in the ass, a single life would've been a long time. The 16th of May is a special day for ethnic cleansing, which also affects the Roma. Since the meeting of the European Roma Forum in the concentration camp in Neuengamme in 2006, more than 6,000 people have demonstrated that the desire to live is the greatest instinct, and the desire to survive drives away all fear. A liaison officer at the Gypsy camp learned about Höss' plans on May 14th. The officer contacted Polish political prisoner Joachimowski to tell him that the 6500 Auschwitz roman was scheduled to be gassed on 16 May. Joachimowski was asked to help them warn about the deadly threat through reliable Roma friends. It is planned that on 16 May they will signal the start of the deportation of the prisoners with a bell ringing. The inhabitants of the Gypsy camp would have gone to the slaughterhouse with their heads down. But they're prepared for this day. No one came out of the barracks at the bell. The SS officers went in and began to order people out of the barracks, but they looked at the 60 SS soldiers armed with machine guns in silence, handcuffs, chains, shovels, knives, tools and stones. The Roma were many more. Since they weren't prepared for such unusual resistance, the SS officers didn't take any chances and left. May 16th is therefore the day of the Roma resistance. Roma self-governments, civil society organisations, all Roma families on this day remember the brave heroes who, aside from their fears, fought for one purpose: their lives. At the time, they didn't know the camp was on a reprieve. Those without fate who did not starve to death or who were not executed until August 2, 1944 were dragged to the crematorium on that day. At dawn, they gassed them and burned their bodies in the pits near Crematorium Five. That's when the history of the Gypsy camp ended. This is a tragic chapter in the history of Hungarian society. We need to remember and remind our fellow citizens every year that no one can be humiliated, assaulted, trampled in human dignity because of Roma or belonging to any other nationalities. These tragic events should be recalled in order, including on 16 May, the day of Roma courage and youth. Not to rip up the wounds of survivors and their families, but to make the Roma Holocaust the Pharrajimos a separate chapter in collective commemoration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-18-48	Dear Parliament, At the end of the speeches before the agenda, I would like to ask Mr Dezső Szigély to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-05-18-49	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: István Simicskó, KDNP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Félix Farkas, Roma minority speaker; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik; Brenner, Koloman, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Krisztina Hohn, LMP; Gergely Arató, DK; László Szakács, MSZP; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-05-18-50	Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine, and anyone who senses that your machine is not working, please indicate that. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Hold on, hold on, hold on. (To be indicated:) I know it doesn't work, yeah. I want the vote now. [[Vote. Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: I don't want to! Yes! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Accepted.]] [[For signal:]] I ask that there is someone besides Mr Róbert Zsigó... Mr Róbert Zsigó's vote, if you fail to restore the operation of your machine, you will be included in the votes if this is necessary. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to ask the B/10305 of the Competition Authority's activities in 2019 and of the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act on the enforcement of the purity and freedom of competition. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House [[For signal:]] Including the vote of Mr Zsigó, the Committee was invited by 118 votes in favour, 42 against and 3 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Economic Committee to address the activities of the Public Procurement Authority in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 B/10504. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House [[For signal:]] Mr Zsigó once again accepted this motion by 117 votes in favour, 43 against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now move on to immediate questions at 3:20 p.m. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room. It's a short break.]] [[15.20]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-05-18-51	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think about this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Péter Jakab, the leader of the group, if you will accept the person of the responding party, or you will ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2020-05-18-52	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait a week.
u2020-05-18-53	I would like to inform you, Mr Group Leader, that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Andrea Varga-Damm and Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What does Madam Minister think begins with two? It's an address. I'm asking who's asking the question. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the floor.
u2020-05-18-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, You have said in the press that you agree with the words of the Speaker, who has qualified the women of the House starting with the number 2. I think that you will have to account for this with yourself, but the fact is that, in connection with the Istanbul Convention, you keep saying that there is a disinformation campaign going on and that Hungarian law is the most prominent way to protect victims of relationship violence. I think, by the way, that the Istanbul Convention, which your government has signed, is being so mystified because they simply do not want to create the institutional system that the Convention requires. But I would like to draw your attention to 94/2018. The tasks of the members of the Government are defined in this regulation on 22 May 2005. Article 109 of this Regulation Section 4 This is what he says: the minister of justice is responsible for helping victims. So in Hungary, you are the only minister whose job description of victim assistance is a top priority. Therefore, I ask you with great respect that it is possible, explain that these extremely strict rules still bring Hungarian case law to the point that, for example, the news arrived on 15 May that the arrest of the man who tied her up, beat her up and suppressed cigarette butts on her partner's body was terminated in Kaposvár. Madam Secretary, you do not think that, although the rules may be strict, you may not feel that this convention needs to be ratified, but it is your duty to help victims, you are the number one member of the government to whom this is the task. I'd like to know if you feel like you're doing enough of your job. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Judit Varga. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-05-18-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I do not wish to comment on Mr Speaker's words here, because I do not think that either of us should waste time twisting each other's words, and I did a few days ago with an opinion on what I think of Mr Speaker's words. By the way, the word "agree" has not been spoken, so please be a little more specific in your memory. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Your job description, Madam Secretary.]] But if you insist on my personal appearance, let me tell you what I believe. I believe in real action. For a very long time, I have considered it very important to have equality between men and women and even the highest level of protection for men, women, children and families. That's why I announced 2020 for the year of victim support. You may not notice, but what is hystericalism, instead of incitement, we believe in real work and action, and even during an emergency, work continues. I have set up a Civilian and Expert Working Group, and this week we will get a very thick material for the second round, so that civilians can have an opinion on how they can help us with the tasks we have done and what we have to do. I sit at the table with those who do not live in political statements to protect women, children and families, but think about real actions. Allow me one more thought. When I prepared this answer, I found myself on the community side of the opposition women. It's amazing what's going on. If it's really important for you to stand up for women, then start on your own social networking site. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We don't have that side!]] Each of their entries [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's a fake page!]] Each entry is up to one pissing [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am allowed by your followers to enter deeply offensive entries in my feminine, maternal, human dignity. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes! That's right.]] So don't ask me for any women's protection and women's equality as long as you have your supporters on your side in this insufferable style. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I believe in real work, real equality, not political hystericalism. It's not a soundy word to me, it's a reality to me, and I believe in action. I want you to be partners in this. Thank you very much. (Applause from the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-05-18-57	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Mrs Potocskané Kőrösi Anita for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-18-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, I was surprised to hear what you just said here, it's a fake news page that your Fidesz fellow Members bring up, and they keep coming with it. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you! Bastards!]] You don't have sexist statements. Yes, I would have expected from you, just as I expected from the other female member of the government, Andrea Bartfai-Mager, that they would distance themselves from these statements. You didn't do that. What did you say in your interview in 168 hours on May 9th? That you believe László Fat's words show respect for women. Do they show respect? ! That's what the media wrote about you, and I think those words are unforgivable. Women deserve respect, respect, and I trust that you will do something, and as women, you will stand up in the government to truly show respect for women. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.30]]
u2020-05-18-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister Judit Varga is entitled to a rejoinder. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to give you a quick answer. If you really want to help women, children, then take part in the real work and leave these political sounds, because we don't need them. He who understands the words well told me in my Hungarian teacher that children were always in high school, understand well, I did not give an interview to 168 Hours in the first place, there was an interview in the Hungarian Nation. I think the Speaker of the House can afford to think more of women as, like, an old-fashioned gentleman, and he doesn't want to see them in such a situation. That's his opinion, I said that this situation has such a reading. The other side of this is that it feels good to be allowed to go ahead on the street, in the doorway, or anywhere, or when women can speak first. So I'm asking you to be a little more generous, focus on the right job, which I'll be happy to be your partner if you want to help women. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-61	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-62	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, At the end of last week, the news that introduced Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital swept through the Hungarian press. If we looked at the Internet pages, we could see that almost none were left without an opinion because of the conditions in the hospital. Without all kinds of powder, without any introduction, I ask Minister to answer four simple questions here in front of the public of Parliament. Is it true that the medical staff at Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital weren't filtered until the end of March? Is it true, Minister, that the workers were only filtered at random and didn't filter every single employee? Is it true, Minister, that a two-meter drywall wall was used to separate patients infected with the Crown Virus from other hospital patients? Is it true that we had to use a shared bathroom and a shared toilet for these people? Is it true, Minister, that after about two days, the results of the test were revealed and the patients were in a common ward? And is it true that in March, the hospital did not have any protocols or procedures available? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-63	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-64	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman asked if it was true. I could finish my answer by saying no. But since you specifically asked, I'll tell you a few things. On 22 March, the procedure issued by the doctor, which I signed, writes:. In order to carry out the necessary medical examinations, the return of the person returning from the medical institution cannot be refused by the institution, in which case the institutional care of the recipient must be provided separately for 14 days, which is his maintenance obligation. The employees of Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital have so far achieved 24 positive results, they are thankfully, asymptomatic or have extremely mild symptoms. During the contact research, which was complete, no direct link was found between hospital infection and diseases in the homes of the elderly on Pest. However, one in ten residents of the elderly homes in which the capital is maintained are infected, one in six of the deceased living in a home in which the capital is maintained. More than half of the infected in all elderly homes were diagnosed from the capitalized nursing home when the elderly homes in the capital represent only 7 percent of the total 55,000 beds. Three-quarters of the deceased were also made up of seven percent of these institutions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-65	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. On 11 April, Müller Cecília said the following about the nursing home on Pesti Road: the first confirmed case in the home was a worker, but it is not excluded that someone else was able to get the virus inside the walls of the institution, even in the period before the lockdown. Muller Cecília, in effect, admitted that the hospital could have introduced the infection to the nursing home. Minister S, please tell us, say, about Mezezősilas, Nagymágócs, Győr, Charging Lake, Fist, Sződliget, or Borsodnádasd, because they have been hiding it for a very long time, but it turns out that IV. On the 16th of the month, infection was found in 11 elderly homes, IV. 19 elderly homes on the 20th of October, IV. And on the 29th of the month, 27 elderly homes were infected, and all you're talking about is Pesti Road, Minister. This means that in 13 days, the number of infections in nursing homes increased by two and a half times. Minister, do not highlight a case that is in the capital, but also discuss all other state-owned nursing homes. Keep me informed of that, Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-67	Dear Parliament, Minister Miklós Kásler is entitled to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-68	Congresswoman, you should have taken the time to see how many elderly people have infections in their homes. It's not the number you mentioned, it's 31. I have just listed the distribution, and I have listed the differences between the home of the elderly in Budapest and the home of all the other elderly people. That's what I'm asking you to consider. Don't misinterpret, as usual, the words of Chief Doctor Muller Cecília are true, as he said. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Koronavirus.hu!]] And you don't use the suffering of patients, possibly tragic events, to tune people with emotional strings in a pitiful manner, and you don't show respect to the victims. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Miklós Kásler is leaving the Chamber.]]
u2020-05-18-69	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long will you keep entertaining yourself in the velvet chair, Minister? It's an address. Because of Minister's absence [[Dr. László György Lukács: Take the mobile microphone after him, he may still be here somewhere.]] Mr. Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-18-70	Mr President, thank you very much. I am so sorry that Minister ran away from the answer, but I accept the Secretary of State's identity.
u2020-05-18-71	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-72	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, we were not surprised at the fact that the worldwide Covid epidemic not only hit the Hungarian health care system with lack of resources, medicine and care, but also the government and its leaders. We know very well that while the experience in the states of Europe that policy helps and serves the country's health system in a health emergency is the exact opposite of that, here the defence against the epidemic is the Prime Minister's personal image campaign. Perhaps that is why conflicting decisions are also taken daily, which affect the lives and health of Hungarian people, and are often dangerous. One day they're talking about masking, and then they say they need to wear a mask. Test is rejected first, then tested afterwards. 36,000 hospital beds are evacuated, and often helpless, freshly operated patients are put out on the street, disturbed, and almost denied. They practically stop basic health care and then try to restart it, and when they try, they create confusing regulations, they demand negative test results from those who come to the clinics, which we now have done, we know very well that it is almost impossible in public health. [[15.40]] According to the Minister, he, not the government, but the doctors, often without adequate protective equipment, who are in constant danger of life and who are deeply underpaid, can be held responsible for possible tragedies. But the Minister is wrong! The responsibility cannot be removed. His every move and wrong decision is to be accounted for once, just like every member of the government. After all, I think I can ask, because we know very well that the Minister found the death of a covid sick lady entertaining the other day. [[György Balla: You're lying! Don't lie to me. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] How long the Minister entertains himself in the ministerial velvet chair [[György Balla: Don't lie like that. Laszlo Szászfalvi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] how long we will have to suffer the chaos and damage caused by the Minister. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Don't lie!]]
u2020-05-18-73	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, since the outbreak of the epidemic, your personal activity and your party's activities have been nothing more than petty political attacks. If necessary, every day he accuses the Chief Officer in charge of preventing people's illness of political bias, but I think he accuses anyone from the WHO who considers the measures taken by the government to be either professional or proportionate or effective. Anyone who says that one or another decision taken by the government can successfully prevent the spread of the epidemic will be a political player for you from that moment on. For you, the professional voice is the only acceptable voice that serves your very narrow political goals, honourable Member. On the one hand, you mentioned in your speech that the Hungarian response to the coronal virus epidemic would not have been rapid enough and that other countries were moving faster or more planned. Honourable Member, if you look, we made the announcement of the emergency on the 7th day after the first disease, while Belgium, say, on the 37th day, Italy on the 38th day, Spain on the 44th day, Germany on the 49th day or France on the 58th day. However, if you look at any other measures, we have already completed the closure of the clubs and cultural institutions on the 13th day, while Austria is 21, Italy is 37, Spain is 44, Finland is 47, France is 54 or Germany is 55 days and I can still list it. The result of this rapid measure, honourable Member, is that the number of dead people per million people has indeed been kept at a low level, since it is 46 for Hungary, but if you look at, say, Belgium, there is 782, honourable Member, there is no reason why the health workers turned their backs on the Prime Minister, you see the difference: in Hungary 46, there 782. That's the difference between defense and defense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-75	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a moment in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know, he saw the movie Brian's Life, and they asked me what the protagonist gave Rome. And what did Minister Miklós Kásler give us? [[Gergely Gulyás to Dr. Bence of Rétvári: But he didn't see it! Interjections and clarity in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] What did he give you? Doctors fleeing to Sweden, England, medical and nursing health, chaos in education and health, fired doctors, hospital wardens, the tragedies of patients and families, the unprecedented number of hospital infections, the fact that health professionals are raiding and scouting everywhere, sometimes buying junk from China for billions, that instead of the minister responsible for health, a low-level football player is a bad-ass politician, if not on TV every day. I think the question is quite clear: how much longer does the Minister intend to entertain himself in the velvet chair? It's time to get up. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , watching what you've been doing lately, putting pressure on yourself...
u2020-05-18-77	Congressman, your time limit is up.
u2020-05-18-78	...and cancel. Thank you very much. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-79	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. [[György Balla to Zoltán Varga: You are a rare intelligent man! Bence of Turdai applauds.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't think you fully understood the actual message of this scene of this film. By the way, it is worth reading the last interview of the filmmaker, perhaps a year ago, which is exactly the sharpest criticism of your policy, the opinion-based ideology based on genderideology, which he was about to make, and he did not think would happen. That is why his interviews are now banned in countries that you have described as examples; let us say, in Sweden, where there is a death of 359 people to one million inhabitants against the Hungarian death figure of 46, or in the England you mentioned earlier, where there are not 46 dead to one million inhabitants, but 508, Member, 508! These are examples that Hungary should have followed, honourable Member. But if I'm on the trail of Brian's life, what did Miklós Kasler give us? For example, a new national core curriculum such as a new triage system in emergency care [[Intercoms.]] e. g. traumatic [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] a ten billion increase in benefits, and if I had a time frame (the president bells.) I could keep going. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-81	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-18-82	I'll wait for the Prime Minister, thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-83	Thank you. I would like to inform the congresswoman that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who are invisible to the government? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-18-84	Mr President, I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-18-85	I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What is the government's plan? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas gave the Minister of State the right to reply. I ask you, do you accept the person of the responder, or personally...
u2020-05-18-86	Yeah.
u2020-05-18-87	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-18-88	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, According to the news, China has started to increase its food stocks due to the expected new wave of the epidemic; it is expected that China will also be followed by other countries in need of imports and will be prepared for the effects of the epidemic through the accumulation of strategic stocks. In the absence of significant precipitation in Hungary, drought may continue to increase, and there is a fear that significant crop losses will be expected for both autumn and spring cereals. In recent times, the public has been given enough attention to the fact that there is a drastic reduction in the yield of the grainers. According to the European drought monitoring system, the proportion of areas affected by drought is also significant in many European countries. In 2020, it appears that the agricultural product market will be driven by both an increase in demand due to accumulation and a decrease in supply due to extreme weather conditions. Secretary of State, how is Hungary preparing for this extremely worrying situation? I would like to know how Hungary stands with strategic food stocks, how long stocks ensure the security of the country's food supply. What is being done to adapt to extreme weather conditions? I'm obviously thinking about dealing with drought problems. And finally, we see that the situation of domestic livestock farmers is developing critically. How to ensure that livestock keepers do not respond by mass stock reduction in case of significant feed price increases? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-05-18-89	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-90	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that when we talk about food supplies, and now in recent months, the coronal virus has caused, so to speak, a buying-in fever in the shops, it has also proved that there is a sufficient amount of food in the country. [[15.50]] The fact that some shelves have remained empty for a few days does not stem from the shortage, but from the logistics task that could not prepare for such a buy-in, and I do not believe that it should be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would just like to mention to you a practical example of what strategic resources we have. At the moment, today, owl stocks in Hungary are available in so many quantities, so in May we call last year's wheat stocks, which are currently on the supply market, and I could say that they are relatively low prices. So there is no shortage of cereals in Hungary from this point of view, and there is indeed a critical drought. We know that for several months there has been very little rainfall in the country, there are areas where there has not been any precipitation at all, and that these autumn grinders, which were discarded last autumn, are in part suffering from these periods, and we can really expect fewer crops, but that more than one million hectares of autumn felling crops are safe to serve not only the Hungarian cereal needs, not only the human grain needs, but also the amount of grain that will be available to livestock at any time. It may be possible that we may have some export delays, but saying this today, on May 18, might be a bit unusual. Let us, however, trust in the days to come when this situation may be somewhat consolidated. What are we going to do about the drought? I will answer that in the second half of the question. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-92	Mr. Secretary. I got a fairly general answer, so I didn't know anything about it, because you said you had enough, and you'd have enough, and the rest, but the news is that China is buying and building up strategic food supplies. It is also a fact that drought is very serious affecting Hungarian agriculture, and recently experts have said that even half of the expected crop will be lost. What's gonna happen then? And this issue also includes the fact that agriculture is extremely exposed to climate change. How are you prepared for this? When are you going to bring to Parliament the adaptation plan related to climate change? We don't see anything like that. So far, the only thing they've ever talked about is how we're going to solve climate change, but we haven't seen a specific programme. It would be much more comforting if we were to do this here in Parliament. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We would get substantive and concrete answers.
u2020-05-18-93	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister of State, has a rejoinder.
u2020-05-18-94	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've worked in practice for almost 45 years. Allow me: as long as you say general terms, today, on 18 May, there is no agricultural specialist who will tell you how much crops will be produced. You'll have to accept that. The other issue is that there are satellite analyses, different space technologies that can be used to carry out certain crop estimates, but I do not think that can be fully relied on at the moment. If we look at the situation of the grain exchanges, the cereal market, there are clear indications of the various sales and offers of customers that there are adequate stocks in Hungary. Of course, there are no public warehouses, we know this very well for many years, but in the various grain warehouses of producers, whether they are integrators or export buyers or even businesses serving mills, I would like to say once again that there is a reassuring supply of cereals, and this will safely cover the Hungarian feed needs and human resources needs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Excuse me, Mr. President, one more moment. For climate change, I would just like to say that this is a much more complicated issue, not climate change, but preparation for this. I believe that we will have to work together on this plan with countless practical examples and practical guidance. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-95	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-05-18-96	We'll wait for Viktor Orbán.
u2020-05-18-97	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai and Timea Szabó, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-18-98	We'll wait for Minister Kasler. Thank you.
u2020-05-18-99	I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or you ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-05-18-100	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-05-18-101	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The old saying is to measure twice and cut once. There's a reason for saying this proverb, calling out caution to anyone who would act first and then think about it. We have been demanding for weeks, and we ask you, among other things, to introduce large numbers of screenings in Hungary, so that we can see how much trouble we have. You rejected these requests in order, and after all, a mass screening has started in Hungary as a result of the University of Semmelweis, although it is still not serious enough, which has shown that the problem is far from as bad, fortunately as we had previously anticipated. But you didn't wait for this measurement, you cut. 39 thousand hospital beds were released and their evacuation was ordered. That's an amazing deal. It is such a large number that even Italy, which has been the most affected by the European epidemic, would have brought attention, let alone in Hungary. It was already apparent that this mandatory measure would have consequences, human health and lives at risk. And unfortunately, recently, a patient who had been sent home has died, who might have survived, if you had done so without seeming to have been forced into hospitals after all. I respectfully ask Minister to feel some responsibility for this man's death. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-18-103	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It would be worth finding a common standard, which is not usually successful, that in a crisis such as that caused by the coronal virus epidemic throughout Europe and the world, what political responsibility we apply. Because my respectable question is, if you're asking for the death of an otherwise serious cancer patient on the government, is that for the 44 deaths on Pest Road, which is the home of a capitalized elderly person, who you consider to be responsible for, who you believe to be responsible for that. [[It's an intervention from the dialogue benches.]] I do not suggest that we reduce the issue of political responsibility in this form. In each case, tests preceded who was sent home and who wasn't. Nowhere where lifesaving intervention was required, or where continued hospitalisation was justified, no one was sent home, or the medical instruction was clear that no one should be sent home in these cases. And the number you're describing doesn't match the reality, because the fact is that about 62-63 percent of the hospital beds were occupied, and in order to achieve the 50 percent lack of beds, approximately 12-13 percent of the hospital beds had to be emptied accordingly. In view of the fact that there are around 66,000 hospital beds in Hungary, it is easy to calculate that this number is well below 10,000. [[16.00]] And the instructions were clear, so it was only medically justified to let someone go home. Of course, a malpractice could have occurred in such a case. In this case, the rules of liability for damages are clear, but precisely to your party, which is giving the mayor at the moment in Budapest, I do not recommend that you exercise such personal responsibility after a death, because it will lead far away. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-105	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-106	Minister, I would like to remind you, speaking of political responsibility, that you attacked Gergely Christmas, not the other way around. [[Gergely Gulyás: Me?]] Your government tried to shift political responsibility for the tragedy in nursing homes to the mayor. But speaking of which, it is quite clear that, despite the mayor's request or even his demand, you sent the patients back from the hospitals to the nursing home in accordance with protocol without any screening. It is becoming more and more clear that hospitals and hospitals may have started this infection in the direction of nursing homes. Now, you're looking at this screening to prevent coronal virus infected people from returning to nursing homes, denied, then referred to as the mayor's responsibility, and then when, as a result of your actions, I'm taking your responsibility for a death, you're wondering what kind of political game we're playing here. Well, knock it off. Thank you.
u2020-05-18-107	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to remind the Member that you have brought up the responsibility of a maintainer of an institution as a result of an unfortunate and tragic death, and also in a rather indirect way, turning directly to the Prime Minister. There's a much more direct connection between a capital institution and the mayor. I'm just saying that if you want to enforce this standard against the government, you should be kind enough to enforce it against the mayor, or I have to assume that the standard is different only because the Mayor is from your party, and because of that you're applying a different standard to him than to the government. By the way, I was trying not to attack the mayor. It would be very difficult to find sentences from me that have been personally attacked in the last six to seven months. I have also sought to maintain a normal relationship between the government and the capital, despite political incomprehensibility and the changes in state of mind that have been clearly seen in recent weeks. I think that we should all be pleased that in Hungary there were significantly fewer victims of this viral disease than there were in Western Europe anywhere and significantly fewer people, such as numbers, even from the opposition side, said a few months ago. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-109	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Máté Kocsis, representative of the Fidesz Group, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: what is the truth about the development aids of Józsefváros and Ferencváros? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I'm going to ask Mr. Group Leader if he'll accept the identity of the responder. [[Máté Kocsis says yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-18-110	I accept, thank you very much. Mr President, In the summer of 2019 the Parliament adopted the central budget for 2020, which included an amount of more than HUF 1 billion that the government had planned for the previous management programmes. The new mayor, who was elected in October 2019, was then confronted with the fact that on 23 March 2020 the Ministry of Finance withdrew this aid as an unused amount. I would like to mention that my fellow Member, Csárdi, who has been very concerned about this issue recently, did not vote for this item in the central budget last year, and now he is pretending that it is very important. But what I would like to ask the Secretary of State, however, is what the term "unused support" means, since we are talking about the budget line for 2020, which should have been available before 23 March. Therefore, it can be presumed that the mayor or mayors concerned did not call this aid in time for Ferencváros and Józsefváros. It is true that the government did indeed redeploy it, but perhaps the emphasis is that this was not drawn. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State when the possibility of drawing targeted grants to municipalities was opened in the central budget for 2020 and when the municipalities were informed of this, and the two municipalities mentioned above, namely the VIII. district and IX. the district's actions; and other municipalities managed to draw these development resources in time. I'd also like to bring you here to inform you that VIII. there is no point in the budgetary decree of the district municipality that would have counted on this item this year, and this makes it particularly interesting. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-111	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-112	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government fought with its emergency measures to combat and control the epidemic. We protected the health of Hungarian people, Hungarian families, the economy and jobs. This also involves sacrifices, and we must take these sacrifices together. Obviously, the financial impact of this is assumed by the central budget, in principle and in large numbers, but it is necessary to bear burdens for others, including municipalities. Indeed, at the time of the adoption of the budget last year, the municipalities received individual grants, and it is perfectly natural that the municipalities are planning this in their own budget in the following year, so they could count on it in their budgets. It's like the congressman said, this is the eighth. did not happen in the case of a district. It is also natural that local authorities are preparing to use these resources in advance. In particular, Annex VIII is amended as follows: and IX. in the case of a district, the conditions of use were published or entered in the information system on 13 February. In this case, the municipalities naturally ask questions and agree on how to use the resources. It's interesting that IX. The mayor of the district indicated that he did not wish to use this source for this purpose. He initiated a redeployment, another use of resources, so we had to inform him that it was not possible to transfer the funds adopted in the budget in this way. After all, both municipalities did not use the aid, they did not complete and complete the necessary forms. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-113	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to the leader of the group, Máté Kocsis. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-114	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. The first thing that turned out to be true, I already knew, because VIII. The mayor claims the opposite in the district government's budget decree, but this item cannot be found, even though he has been around the press, it does not make it true, there is no such item. The other thing you said was perhaps a little more interesting, Mr President, I am saying this to my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, because in the Ferencváros case there was a failure to draw this support by asking the mayor himself to spend this support on someone else. I'm sure you know there's no way under the Finance Act. So you're crying a program element with the mayor's wife, Krisztina Baranyi, which the Franciscan leadership didn't want either. This is what we consider to be a mistake, as has been said before, not a nice, but tasteless lie is what we are dealing with. So I ask you, Congressman, to keep the kind of campaign, the mistake that came about by the mistake and intention of the two mayors at their level of responsibility where it belongs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-115	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. In return, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have said, it is necessary to allocate resources to the budget for the control of the epidemic. Obviously, it is unfortunate that, in some cases this year, we had to temporarily suspend municipal subsidies, and it is obviously unfortunate that we had to decide on the transfer of these funds. However, those who took action on time have, after all, used these sources of support, and here on 28 April we have provided information that these uses are not possible this year, so in this case this will be used in the central budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-117	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-18-118	Thank you very much. I'd rather wait for the Minister. Thank you. [[16.10]]
u2020-05-18-119	I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Will the modern attic sweep be ready? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-05-18-120	I'll take it.
u2020-05-18-121	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-122	Mr President, Dear House, In the post-emergency protection phases, the Government of Hungary has burdened everyone, not exactly according to public burden, as it has taken away some part of the amount previously received from the municipalities from the motor vehicle tax, but at the same time we see segments, the multi-segment or the banking system, where the public burden was not realized, but the banks were supported even more than they paid. It is well known that it can be written off of the tax and then, even after the National Bank's interest margin, a sum of 40 billion can be put into pocket. So, not only did they not take part in the defense as much as anyone else, but they did take very little of it. But we do see that this is not the first problem for municipalities. Fidesz-KDNP is trying to overwrite the election results along the concept of Special Economic Zones, submitted this week. The Gödi example tells us a lot about the fact that, when the government agrees with a multinational company on an investment or expansion, despite the protests of the population, despite the fact that business tax revenue has so far enriched the management of the local government concerned, which has accidentally been led by the opposition, the government of Hungary intends to direct these funds to the county leaders of the county of Kögytttan. Let's see what the local government or the population didn't have a say in the way they used to do: in cutting forests, in installing the factory fence to the edge of the residential area, in that the load, the environmental load and the traffic load are all there, but the burden is no longer tax revenue. Nor could they say on the ground that hundreds of Ukrainian and Asian migrant workers had been organized, with governmental backwinds, and that even a lousy residential forum could not be brought together, while the government wanted to reach over the will of the local settlement, local leadership and voters to expropriate these resources and to be distributed by county kings. Are you serious, Minister? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-123	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-124	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As for what you have said about sharing the burden, I would like to note that it does not correspond to reality in this form. We have introduced the special commercial tax on multis, which has to be paid for years, and it is a burden of between HUF 30 and 40 billion per year only for that sector. Although the banking system can write it off in the next five years, this year it has to contribute HUF 50 billion to the common burden. In addition, the state started saving itself. If you look at it, we also deducted significant amounts from the Ministry's budgets. As far as the Göd case is concerned, and the special economic area, I think that if there were still any meaningful reasoning in Hungarian politics, then you could easily see that we are not talking about cities with county rights, where political division makes sense, but about small settlements where it was not right, by the way, that if a large investment was made in one of the two, three, four or five thousand settlements, then the settlement was part of it, and the settlements directly, say, in its surroundings or even at the border, were no longer part of it. And in the case of a pit, that statement is completely wrong. An almost 400 billion-dollar development will take place in the Göd. The city will take part in this. The mayor who won the election did not support this investment. The situation is that they may only get 30 percent of this huge business tax, but this is just 30 percent more than they would get if the investment had been made by the mayor, because he didn't support it, not even if we could create a huge amount of important jobs in the crisis and thus improve the labour market situation in the region. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-125	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-126	Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you to maintain the appearance of professionalism. What a opposition mayor politically supports and does not support is not a legal category. Well, let's not make a joke about a bill, Minister, please. To tell us that it doesn't affect cities with county rights, then codify it and put it in the proposal. What you put on the table, that's not what it is. Mr. Secretary, I'm thinking about the way you've been acting in the past. Your Prime Minister left for Saudi Arabia a few years ago, four or five years ago, advertising our country before the working capital that it is sufficiently low on Hungarian people's wages and that the labour code is sufficiently flexible. You will then sign strategic agreements with these multi-company companies. Local leaders and settlements have only had the hope that at least all of the business taxes will come in and compensate for the collateral damage caused by your serene, servitude economic policy. You, reaching over the heads of the voters, are now trying to take away this last opportunity. This is one of the tools to break down democracy. Don't think we're gonna let this go. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-127	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-05-18-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman, I would suggest that before you ask an immediate question about a bill, you should feel free to get to know its text. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It happened, but you can't write it properly.]] So county councils don't have jurisdiction over the county-righted city. So it's clear enough, it's clear, you don't even have to be a lawyer to understand it, it's enough to read the law. But if there is a need for interpretation questions on a law, then I am going to do so separately, and then there is no need for us all to experience the inconvenience here in this form of parliament that opposition representatives are asking questions about matters where they have failed to read or understand the law. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Be modest!]] And these funds don't belong to the county assembly in any way. The county assembly shall allocate this to the municipalities. 3 percent of the administrative costs, which a county general meeting can use from such business tax revenues, 97 percent continue to be allocated to the municipalities. It is easy to see, in my view, that this is a much fairer and better system than it has been before, so that, moreover, the direct party political aspect of this type of settlement is hardly noticed, its significance is much smaller than anywhere else. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-129	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How can the process of adoption be accelerated and simplified? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-130	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the pillars of the government's social policy is the development of family-oriented child protection. We believe that the basic value of society is the family, the most important aspect of raising children, and that nothing else can replace that. However, we know that many do not have this, and childless couples are ready to adopt. Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been working to promote foster parenting and adoption, so that children can grow up in families and see models for, for example, parenting and fatherhood, and have a social attachment. The government is constantly developing the family life model as a display of the most important values, which, by the way, is supported financially in a wide variety of ways. In recent years, family-oriented child protection has begun. In this context, as of 1 January this year, the government also introduced some support to encourage adoption, such as the adoption fee and the adoption team, just to mention the most important ones. Today we can also talk about shortening adoption procedures in time, and it is important that older adoption designers can also be included in the system, helping experienced, open parents and children with no opportunities. This may increase the age difference between the child and the adopter. [[16.20]] I think that we all have a common goal, so that parents who plan to adopt and children who are about to be adopted can find each other as quickly as possible. On this basis, I would like to ask, with all due respect, the Secretary of State, by what means can the process of adoption be speeded up and simplified, what extent does the government intend to change, and how do they fit into the government's family policy? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-131	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think everyone can see that it is in both children's and childless families' interests that the process of adoption should be as quickly as possible. For those who are in child protection, it is obviously good to be able to get into a loving family as soon as possible, and for those who want to have a child or undertake to raise another child, it is also important for those who can have this child as early as possible, not to have to wait months or years because of administration, but for the child to get into the family as young as possible, obviously the unity of the family is all the more secure. Perhaps many know the fact that two thirds of adoptions take place through children who are adopted from child protection. That is why it has been important that in recent years we have sought to develop a family-centred child protection and promote foster parenthood. Here, too, Mr President, it has been pointed out that in recent years we have also introduced the adoption fee, the adoptive child and the maternity allowance. In order to make this procedure as fast as possible, we have taken a number of administrative, time-accelerating steps or taken in a bill that lies on the table of Parliament, so that the full adoption process can be shortened to up to nine months. In addition, during the period when the future family and the child can get to know each other better, a maximum of 10 days from work will be provided for this year. As Congressman said, it is important that older children are adopted as well as older children, since now the child is being given a little older than a generation ago, so older children can be adopted. Therefore, the acceptable age difference between the adoptive parent and the child increases from 45 to 50 years in the case of adoption of children over three years of age. If another child is adopted, it will be easier to assess the suitability of adoptive parents. Obviously, if the first child has already been found fit [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they've been raising the child properly ever since, so obviously it's more justified than the second child. And I'd like to talk to you about further relaxations in the bill in one minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I think that responsible social policy can only be based on responsible family policy and a responsible family-based child protection system. I am therefore pleased that the Government has tabled this bill, which is on the House's table, and we will start this general debate this week, tomorrow. I am also pleased that during the preparations, the government was open to various proposals and opinions, and I am also pleased that, on the basis of my experience, my own proposal could have been included in this law. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would also like to thank Mr President, because we meet these kinds of situations from time to time in reception hours, and it is important to help those who would adopt non-blood children themselves and raise them as if they were their biological children. An important part of the bill is that the 40-hour course remains an option for all those who want to use it, but not as an obligation. It is also important that in the event that a parent, a biological parent, does not seek a child, the child no longer acts, but becomes adopted after three months if nothing happens to the biological parent. If the relationship is irregular, the child can be declared adopted after eight months instead of the previous year. Obviously, as I said in the previous speech, it is important for the child to be adopted as soon as possible if his biological parents are not in contact with him or intend to raise him in the long term. In order to speed up the process, certain elements can run simultaneously. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thus, for example, the summary opinion of the Committee on the Protection of Children and the adoption process may be conducted simultaneously, so that one does not have to wait for the other and adoption is also possible. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not two, it's four years now. Thank you very much, and I ask everyone to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-137	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Independent Member Tibor Bana wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: . Is this crisis management in Orbán? It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a responsible, independent opposition parliamentary representative, I tried to stand constructively on the measures taken by the government during the coronal virus epidemic. That is why, together with my fellow Member, János Bencsik, we have tabled a package of amendments to the Crown Virus Act and I have tried my best to help the municipalities. I have also submitted motions to the Parliament in this way, so that I can help our fellow countrymen living in different settlements. Fortunately, I was also able to make progress on the opening of the Volánbusz and the Neumarkt border crossing. However, if we look back on the last few months, Minister, we can unfortunately see that you have used the authority given to you to expand your power and abuse. What do I mean? For example, to take away the part of the car tax in the settlements, to put cultural workers in a worse position than before, we are voting tomorrow on the bill in this regard, and I would like to bring here the example of the Göd, which everyone knows, and unfortunately, we can see that you want to extend it, and that you want to sabotage other settlements in our country. And I have not yet told you, Minister, that your actions in health have resulted in human lives. This is the real face of crisis management in Orbán. With you, Minister, the insistence on power and political interests overrided the professional and human aspects during the coronal virus epidemic, abandoned the various settlements and their citizens, and during these months they carried out a demonstration of strength in crisis management, spiced with various character-killing campers. This is outrageous, and it is not true at all what Prime Minister said in Belgrade that they acted in good faith during that time. Minister, how do you explain these measures, and what further steps do you intend to take to undermine democracy in Hungary? I look forward to your substantive answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-139	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When you started by saying that you were an independent, responsible opposition representative, I thought how bad it must be for you alone or with the few who are still in this category, and I was thinking not of the independent, but of the responsible one. But then he reassured me with the statements made in his question that this was not fundamentally different from the speeches made by non-independent and non-responsible Members of Parliament. With regard to the specific matters you have mentioned, I would like to point out that those working in the cultural sector are not intended to be worse, but to be in a better position. The wage increase that is included in the series of measures, along with the change in the legal relationship, I think that it puts the situation of those working in the cultural sphere on a truly unacceptable low wage. With regard to the motor vehicle tax, I have often said, again, that today the state support, normative and own income of the municipal sector is close to HUF 2000 billion, HUF 1900 billion. At a time when we are talking about the car tax, which is about HUF 34-38 billion in revenue for municipalities a year, it is a very proportionate contribution to the common burden that we will use this year to control the epidemic. I also had the opportunity ten minutes ago to justify the rules on special economic zones. I think those small villages and smaller settlements in Vas County will be considered fair because the town with county rights will not be subject to regulation, as elsewhere in the country, that if a small settlement receives a multibillion-dollar investment, more than 5 billion-dollar investment in Göd, this is almost 400 billion-dollar investment, then the business tax does not belong to one of the settlements, say, 3000-persons, but only to the settlements, they are entitled to the local tax in its entirety, but it can be distributed more proportionately among several settlements concerned. I think this is a justified amendment to the law, which is justified regardless of the crisis, and it is also not true that we have abused the crisis, because here is the law before the Parliament, and now everyone will have the opportunity to discuss it, and we intend to hope that Parliament will accept it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2020-05-18-141	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-142	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Cultural workers see this differently and allow me not to be in good faith with regard to economic zones, seeing the steps taken by the government in recent months. However, it is gratifying that the municipalities have acted responsibly in this situation. They deserve all the credit for this, because they performed beyond strength and tried to take steps to help those in distress with countless examples. I would like to bring here the example of Vas county seat, Szombathely, where those who lost their jobs in the epidemic situation can receive a hundred thousand forints of funding, with a HUF 400 million budget allocated to this by the decision of the city, Mayor András Nemény. It would be good for the state to complement this everywhere, not only in Szombathely, but in as many Hungarian settlements as possible. Tao subsidies are also much more, I think, to be sent to higher education rather than to withdraw from universities. And freedom of expression was reduced everywhere, and people were taken away by the police. We Democrats stand up for each other, and we don't let them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To intimidate our countrymen.
u2020-05-18-143	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-18-144	Honourable Congressman, Our Democrats [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] I appreciate the speech, but the problem is that the Democratic Coalition and Ferenc Gyurcsány have been dissipating these words to such an extent that the use of this tone is contraindicated, I think, but of course it depends on your taste and decision. As regards the behaviour of the municipalities, I agree with you that we should thank all the municipalities responsible for the defence. Just as the state, as the nurses, doctors, policemen, soldiers, local governments and local government workers have done a great deal to ensure that Hungary has managed to manage this epidemic and has been able to control it all along. I think it is a common success that is a pity to be taken away, and it is a pity to use it to attack the government, because, once again, what I mentioned here a few minutes ago, I repeat: a few months or two months ago, I think everyone thought that the country would be affected even more seriously by the crisis in particular from a health perspective than it had been affected, and this required a broad cooperation between civil servants, policemen, soldiers and municipalities. This is welcome, and we should thank you for that. I welcome the 100 thousand forints of Szombathely support. I would like to point out that, in the framework of Kurzarbeitgeld, the state can give more than 100,000 forints per month, I think it is also a good achievement. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-145	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's called the 2nd. If you'll excuse me, one second, please. My information is that Minister is coming, but no. Dear Parliament, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-05-18-146	I'm patient. I'll wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-18-147	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Gurmai Zita, representative of MSZP... [[Noise in Jobbik's benches.]] Congressmen, if you don't mind, the Parliament is in session. Thank you for your understanding. Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: -Why have thousands of people been sent home from hospitals? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, if she accepts the person who is responding, or if she asks the Minister in person for an answer.
u2020-05-18-148	I'll wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-18-149	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's called the 3rd. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-05-18-150	I'll wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-18-151	I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What about our artists and colleagues? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'll ask Mr. Vice President if he'll accept the response.
u2020-05-18-152	Yeah.
u2020-05-18-153	You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-05-18-154	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! The protection of human life is obviously the most important during the corona virus epidemic, but after protecting human life, the protection of the workplace comes as the most important. It probably takes a long time to assess exactly how our everyday life has been affected, there is this period, how it has changed our habits, but it is certain that it has struck culture and, in particular, performing art immediately and severely. Our theaters are closed, there are no concerts, shows, performances, and there will be hardly any until August 15th. To be clear, Honourable Parliament, I am talking about our favourite actors, great musicians, renowned artists; about them, but not only about them, but about those who are not in the spotlight, but without them there is no artistic achievement: the dresser, the sound engineer, the dramaturg, the lighter, who do not have a single penny in the near future. State aid is needed, Mr. Secretary of State. State aid notified by Germany on 26 April, followed by France, Finland, the Czech Republic and last week by Greece. I want to ask you what will happen to our artists, Mr. Secretary, and what will happen to our artists' co-workers. Do they get public and immediate help? I ask for your answer on their behalf, too. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer the immediate question. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Hungary has tried to strengthen Hungarian culture in recent years and since 2010, and we have not only done this in words, but we have also tried to give much more support to the actors of cultural life, all those who are seen on the stage, and all those who are working behind the stage for the success of a performance, so that they can serve Hungarian culture with a higher amount of support. While our predecessors spent 172 billion forints on culture in the central budget in 2010, we now spend 578 billion forints instead of 172 billion for the same purpose. We have multiplied the amount that we can devote to national culture, to Hungarian culture, so that quality Hungarian culture can be a quality livelihood for exactly as many people as possible. And we are now well above the other EU countries, because while the average of the countries you referred to, among others, is 0.6 percent of the total national product that is devoted to culture, Hungary is doing this in a rate of 1.5 percent, so we are spending more than twice, two and a half times, on culture, as other developed countries in the European Union do. In addition, this year we accepted a wage increase for those working in the cultural sphere, a 6 percent wage increase, which also provides greater financial security for those working in the cultural sphere. In addition, precisely in order to compensate for the revenue due to the late performances, not only the governments listed by you, but also the Hungarian government, the cultural area also launched a programme. This is also more than a billion forints and a half billion forints, in which we advance the costs of certain performances in advance, I would rather say that we buy in advance the performance tickets that can be presented when the emergency is over, when the epidemiological restrictions allow. Now, we're going to buy the ticket in advance, precisely because of what you said, so that you can make the most of your living during the transitional period, and the performance can be held after the outbreak. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-157	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to Mr. Vice President in return. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2020-05-18-158	Dear Secretary of State, It's very thin for a culture-saving package, and I could actually retaliate by blushing your ears, but that's more than 200 people in this country I don't care about, and I don't want to hurt your ears, that's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about an army of people in that sphere, which I think is important for both of us, and I think it's important for all of us, paying the specific taxes of small-tax entrepreneurs, the kata. That, please, is free from your action until June 30th. It's supposed to be paid by July 12th, but you don't have to. Tell me, please, in front of the Parliament's publicity, and preferably not the things from ten years ago, because I still know better than you, that these people, until they have income, have a penny of income, are exempt from the catalog. Please answer that specifically. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-18-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has actually taken measures so far, for more than 80,000 businesses, the exemption from the specific small business tax, and you asked how this would develop in a month and a half; obviously it also depends on the evolution of the epidemic and the emergency situation itself, but the government has quickly decided on the suspension of these taxes, first on a narrower and then on a wider scale covering more than 80,000 enterprises. That's what we did during the crisis. Honourable Congressman, I don't know which one of our ears would blush better if mine was slightly larger, but I think yours can burn with higher heat levels, if we think back to the fact that when there was a crisis in Hungary and you handled it, then you took a month's wages from these people who were employed here as civil servants. We have suspended the tax, increased the support of the cultural sphere by two and a half times, and we are already trying to pay in advance the lectures to be held in the second half of the year or at some point in winter, while you have made cuts in crisis management and a month's wage has been taken from these people. I think the difference between the two is noticeable. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-161	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How long will the EMMI continue to commit a crime? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-05-18-162	Yes, thank you.
u2020-05-18-163	Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-18-164	Thank you very much. Well, let the ears of someone who claims to be a Democrat and does exactly the opposite, and I would like to set an example for Minister Gulyás to see what is happening in the government and in his organization. The Democratic Coalition has had to fight you for years for what should be natural. In this case, it is about the spending of state aid to the Felcsút Reinforcing Foundation for State Aid to taxpayers who pay the price of Felcsút soccer and who knows what else they're going to do. We are talking specifically about 50,000 million forints. To that end, DK had been forced to sue years ago because no accounts had been drawn up, and this did not bother the Ministry, and even the government was able to bring legislation that prevented access to these documents from otherwise being issued after the court ruling. Today, the court verdict has been reached, and the decision is final. The EMMI has to publish the entire file to see what they've come up with when checking the poetry of the Fociacadémia in Felcsút. The Ministry, however, obviously because it is about the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros or Viktor Orbán, will find out everything to avoid having to publish this document. It's just silence and shame. Billions went to the Prime Minister's tank-guarded estate; something must be kept very secret by disregarding this court decision that you have made. There's nowhere left to run against the decision of the Metropolitan Court. That is why I think, and now I do not ask, I demand that these documents be issued immediately. I ask you, on behalf of Minister of State, when will the documents be published? I look forward to your response here and now with a specific date. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-05-18-165	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, DK is just like this, and today's speeches show this: the courts, when they feel like it, are court-martialed by Ferenc Gyurcsány, when a decision is made that is not favourable to you; and when a decision is made to which you have just referred, it is the last pledges of the rule of law, and whatever chronology is said to you at any time, whatever you refer to, there is only one thing that matters to you, your own political interest, everything is subject to it. Honourable Congressman, On 11 February and 6 March 2019 you were at a personal meeting at the Secretary of State for Sport to receive information on the issues that you have listed here. On 6 March 2019 you were able to consult, make available and study the first post-control findings of the document. The document contained a summary of the data on the determination of the follow-up, and in the course of the review of the file, you could also make and make notes. You have deliberately confused two court judgments. There is a court obligation for EMMI to issue three documents: one is a letter of notification closing the post-control, the other is a summary of the determination of the post-control, and the approved sport development programme, and the third is a list of organisations having undergone an after-control between January 2017 and December 2018. All three documents are already in your possession, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-167	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-168	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian people have a right to know what 50 000 million forints have been spent on, and you have created the appearance of control in this case. As I said to you, you have made a separate government decision to issue the documents on this inspection after the court ruling. Therefore, I think that your answer is unacceptable. The EMMI shall issue these documents. I'm not sure if your arrogance or incompetence is stronger here, but in any case, I suggest you and I demand that you do what you do in this way to protect the funds of the Foundation for the Education of the Felcsút Reinforcing. That's what I want you to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-05-18-169	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The document which the EMMI was obliged to issue and which EMMI was required by the court to issue, as I said, those documents have been received by you, honourable Member. With regard to the Taofel Offers, on the one hand, you say that the Taofel Offers need to be better monitored, and when there is a Tao Check somewhere, you say that now I quote that the Ministry is making it look like an audit. So it's important for you to have the taok stitches checked, and if you do, then you're attacking that it's not an inspection, it's just the appearance of an inspection, while you, as I just said, could look at the findings of the follow-up on 11 February and 6 March last year and have received the additional document, honourable Member. But we will never reach your level, nor would we like to reach the level of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who himself admitted in the autumn speech that he was able to falsify even the figures of the Hungarian budget in order to maintain his power. We're on the ground of legality everywhere, which is why we've followed this court order, and we've put the three documents at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-171	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: questions on which the government does not answer with its title. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Peter Ungár: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-172	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think it is very important to start by recognising the work of everyone involved in the fight against the epidemic, and this includes social workers, who, as well as health workers, have fought in the front line to reduce this emergency, and we thank them for that. In the previous parliamentary session, my fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, tried to find out how social workers could expect a one-time gross HUF 500 000 supplement, which was rightly received by health workers. [[16.50]] Then you have received a generated version of the lorem ipsum text in response, so I would ask Minister that if you choose one of the words "yes" or "no" in Hungarian, which describes the material reality that you will arrive with this one-time HUF 500,000 supplement, it would be very, very honored and raise the authority of the Parliament. The fact is, these one-time additions, although correct, are not enough. There is a need for wage development, as during the epidemic, this has now been published in the press by many social workers, for example, but healthcare workers have also lost the opportunity to work in a second job. I would like to give you an example: nursing home nurses worked in home care, for example, on weekends, which they could not do. According to the Health Workers' Union, this meant that the nurses lost about 20-30 percent of their income at a time when they were working on the front line so that this epidemic would affect as few Hungarians as possible. Therefore, my question is to answer that social workers will receive this one-time gross supplement of HUF 500,000, when health and social pay signs will be properly settled, when will they finally have a regular and good salary for these people, because if anyone deserves it, it is them. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-173	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has often said that regardless of the current health crisis, the work of health workers, including nurses, is highly appreciated. As a result of this, the decision that I cannot understand was not taken in view of the fact that we are raising the salaries of nurses by 72 percent in this cycle. Since 1990, there has never been a four-year parliamentary term where a similar increase in wages would have affected nurses. Despite the economic difficulties this year, despite the coronal virus epidemic, the 20% increase will be paid on 1 November, and compared to that, health care workers, including nurses, will receive an extra HUF 500,000. If the government makes a decision of this magnitude, it will always inform the public about it, and it will also be so in this case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-175	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-176	Thank you very much. Then, if I understand correctly and please help me out, if I do not understand correctly, social workers will not receive the one-time gross HUF 500,000 supplement that they deserve as well as health workers. Either the Minister disputes that they deserve it the same way, in which case, it is, by definition, that they do not receive it, in accordance with your logic; or you also think that they deserve this one-time HUF 500 000 supplement, but then we do not understand why they do not receive it. The fact is, even though the medical staff didn't get it specifically, as the government promised by early summer, the social workers were exposed to the epidemic in the same way. You are campaigning about what happens in the elderly homes in Budapest, but you do not appreciate those who work in nursing homes, who are the most acutely exposed to the epidemic, they deserve this HUF 500,000. Please don't get me wrong, tell me you'll get it or you won't get it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-177	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-05-18-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the Member, even the Member's kinship, the fact that he has intelligence problems, I do not suppose that to the slightest extent, so I think that what I said was quite clear. I agree, of course, that if we had to list who would be entitled to special allowances and higher wages in Hungary today, this line would be very long. We are working on it, and since 2010 we have been able to deliver better results than any of our predecessors to increase these wages, and I have to say that the increase in wages between 2012 and 20 has also been the most effective eight years in terms of wage increases since the change in the system in this country. Nevertheless, this must be continued, so that the economy can recover. The congressman knows as well as I do that today the debate is about the country sinking into recession, or perhaps stopping somewhere near zero, instead of a 4% increase that is considered to be the Commissioner. In this situation, I do not expect fairness from the opposition, but it is easy to see that what we have done is also a serious commitment. We can also thank all of you, police officers, soldiers, nurses, social workers, public service workers, for getting through this crisis, but this does not change the fact that the state's financial framework is much tighter than it has been in the past year. So in view of this, we ask for minimal fairness and understanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-179	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Because of his absence, the Minister authorised Mr. János Schanda to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that the administration of unemployment benefit is currently too slow and too complicated, not designed for such an extraordinary situation. Why is it slow? At the moment, from the moment someone submits their application, you can receive the amount up to two months later, this procedure may be delayed, so we recommend that this administration period be maximized for 8 days. To this end, if necessary, new government officials, administrators, administrators could be recruited to reduce unemployment and create new jobs. Why is it complicated? At present, the job seeker is not sufficient to send his application to the employment department of the government office, but also to collect the employer's certificate, to collect a certificate of the deduction and payment of social security obligations, while these documents are available in the health insurance department of the government office. So the documents you're asking for from job seekers are in the state. The Dialogue suggests that it should be sufficient for the job seeker to submit the application and all such documents to be collected by the state and look at them, of course, during these 8 days. In this regard, we ask that the government take advantage of its extraordinary power in the event of an emergency, and that it do so with immediate effect, make sure that you receive the unemployment benefit within 8 days. If you are no longer willing to raise the amount of unemployment benefit, if you are no longer willing to extend it for at least nine months, at least be kind and help the people who have lost their jobs! I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-18-181	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, who will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that what you are asking for is actually made possible by the legislation, since a decision will be taken within 8 days of a sometic procedure. The deadline can only be longer if there is a need for some kind of deficit replacement and therefore a pending decision must be taken first by the Government Office. (The chair is occupied by Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament. Sándor Szabó and Dr. Winner Vinnai take over the notary seats. ) So, honourable Member, I assure you that the necessary number is available at the government offices. If an extra number is required, the government agencies will provide this number, and otherwise the decision will be taken within the 8 days mentioned by you. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw attention to another dimension of your question. You said that the government should use the authority that you, among other things, did not vote for. This behaviour is a bit false, since your vote was not included in the legislation, it did not support the proposal that allowed the government to act quickly. The measures that now help and facilitate the lives of hundreds of thousands of our countrymen, since it has already been mentioned here in the Honourable Parliament, that more than 89 000 employees of 6774 companies have, among others, received wage subsidies to preserve their jobs. This is also done by government officials, also at extreme speed, whom you mentioned earlier. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2020-05-18-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome to my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-18-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, You may not have been paying attention, so once again, this procedure may take up to eight days if you have all the documents and file them. It was my request that he not have to file these documents, which is already in the administration of the state. In this case, the state must collect these documents as soon as someone applies and receive this money within eight days. Dear Secretary of State, 160,000 Hungarians lost their jobs, so many applied for jobs. We're talking 160,000 people! A third of these people don't have a month's reserve. If these people wait two months, they may not be able to buy and drink next month, pay bills. We want you to automatically receive this procedure in 8 days. In hindsight, if something is missing with the paperwork, it can still be examined, but it will automatically receive the job search allowance. As regards his comment on the delegated act, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have not voted for the unlimited, timeless mandate, not for you to help people.
u2020-05-18-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-18-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Then I'll try to say it again. Even now, decisions are normally taken in 8 days at the government office, and only in 8 days will the decision be taken if there is a need to fill in the gap, to submit some other document. And one more sentence, Congressman, you mentioned 167 thousand people who asked the state for help. This 167 thousand people did not necessarily lose their jobs in the past period, but there are a total of them; either before or because of the economic effects of the disease caused by the coronal virus, they came to the state to seek help. With all due respect, I'm asking you not to mop up the different numbers. We speak clearly, we make it clear what number we are, what it means. I would ask you to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is the responsibility for the protection against the corona virus for the institution-sustaining authorities? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári asked for a reply. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2020-05-18-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has been through difficult months. Together with the Hungarian people, we managed to achieve a decrease in the number of infected people, and in addition to the countryside restrictions could be reduced in Budapest. But we can't sit back yet, the plague isn't over. Doctors and nurses are still heroically struggling for the lives of many elderly, sick people that the whole country is concerned about. It is a sad fact that the biggest chaos has emerged in homes in the maintenance of the Metropolitan Municipality, and the greatest tragedies have occurred here; where 408 caregivers and 62 workers have been infected so far, 68 elderly people have died, 44 of them at the Pesti Road nursing home, and 45 caregivers and 14 workers at the Chamber Forests have confirmed the corona virus infection; five of the infected have died here. Until now, official investigations have revealed a series of failures at the Pesti Road nursing home, where serious hygiene irregularities have also been observed. In this regard, the National Detective Bureau of the Alert Police is also investigating reckless endangerment of the profession. There's no point in arguing with the facts, but the opposition keeps trying. In fact, while 1 percent of caregivers of non-capitalized homes are not infected, it is one in ten residents of the capital institutions. And what does the head of the capital do in this situation? He's insecure, he's helpless, and he's Facebooking. Instead of acting, he's acting as a substitute. We are interested in ensuring that protection is successful throughout the country, including Budapest. Therefore, we call on the mayor to take action and concentrate all his energy on the elderly homes and the capital. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how much responsibility he has. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the control of the coronal virus to the institution-supporting authorities? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-189	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-18-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If we look at the actions of the Metropolitan Municipality and the Mayor over the past few years in relation to the home of the elderly on the road to Pest and the other elderly homes in Budapest, then we can see that slow, late, late response, inertia, inactivity, uncertainty and indecision are the most characteristic of what we have seen in this case, and the stakes are very high. Unfortunately, the health of these people, the caregivers there, in many cases, was also involved in their lives, which is why it was necessary that the person who was most responsible for the institution, his own maintainer, should act in time. He didn't do that, so if we look at the numbers, we can see that by Sunday, the number of people who died from a coronal virus infection in nursing homes increased to 105, and 44 of these 105 came from an elderly home on Pesti Road. This is clearly an outlier and high number for everyone. If you look at the caretakers, the proportion of caregivers, 7 percent of all caregivers in the capital institutions, 7 percent, while nearly 70 percent of the deaths occurred here. If someone has been in a capitalized nursing home in the last few weeks, months, ten times as much chance of getting sick and unfortunately dying of coronal viral disease as if he had been in another home, either reserved by a rural government, or maintained by a foundation, in a home maintained by churches or in a home maintained by an economic company. Because there is a much, much higher proportion of infected people and, unfortunately, the proportion of the deceased, and this has not developed at random, as it has revealed a lot of shortcomings. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the investigation, and therefore the government office fined the maintenance company for one million forints due to inadequacies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2020-05-18-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept the reply of the Secretary of State, thank you, but I still cannot accept the inertia, indeterminateness, and testosity of the leadership of the capital, which he is now committing to the people of Budapest in the epidemic situation. What we need now and need from the mayor is more action and much less facebooking. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-193	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In view of the reasons, it is perhaps to be found, among other things, that when the control authorities were in the institution 15 times between 2 and 27 April, they did not meet one doctor ten times. Until 12 April, he was not employed by an institutional doctor for 40 hours a week when the coronal virus epidemic spread throughout the country, and we knew very well that such places as the nursing home pose an increased risk. The capital will receive six billion HUF from the central budget this year in order to guarantee the right conditions for older people in these institutions, but, for example, the military had to perform disinfection in view of the spread of the epidemic. And what we can see is that there are cuts, political attacks, falsified documents that characterize the activities of the mayor, who still hasn't set foot in the institution, let alone helping the elderly who are taking care of them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Farkas. [[17.10]]
u2020-05-18-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The situation of the coronal virus has been difficult for many families, and I would like to speak in the interest of young people who are continuing their studies, as there are several examples of many thousands of people who have had serious problems, such as those with a family background, and so that the family cannot provide financial support to young people or even those who have lost their jobs. I would like to quote two surveys. Regarding student work, the school associations said that about 60-70 percent of the student jobs had ceased, that no new job had been created instead, and that HÖOK had also carried out a survey that one third of the students had lost their jobs in part-time or in some other way. It can therefore be seen that there is a problem, because at the same time expenditure remains. Self-costed students have to pay tuition, housing, apartments, notes, textbooks, and money for everyday living, and we can see that despite all this, the government has not provided any meaningful help. The fact that there is a problem has been confirmed, and it has been established, since a measure has been introduced, this is the Plus measure of Student Loan. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State not to bore me with the details of this, but rather with the principle that you have offered to young people, instead of real assistance, to be indebted to them. Let's just stop here for a minute, and also because your communication included these kinds of voices, let me quote: a huge success in the new kind of student loan, a regular rush for the new student loan. So you're happy that young people are indebted to you, you're happy that you're having a seizure, which shows that a lot of young people are in trouble. My question is, therefore, that you can continue to offer young people only this way to be indebted to themselves, or to provide real, meaningful help, for example, by releasing their tuition fees, by providing universities with a source of extraordinary social support. Will you give the young people real help?
u2020-05-18-197	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Farkas. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-18-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're obviously looking for a new topic. Since you are a Member of Parliament here, I think you have said every month how sad it is that many young people are working abroad, but since 2019 there have clearly been far more people coming home to Hungary than the number of people leaving the country before, although there has been a much lower rate than in almost any of the neighbouring countries, you have been looking for a new topic, rather than being proud of the fact that there is now an older perspective for a young person in Hungary, and that is why many people are returning home, honourable Member. He also forgot to mention the help we had given young people, as opposed to your irresponsible and even boycottish behavior, so that everyone could get their graduations and continue to learn, so that they could earn a higher wage during their lifetime. Here you have not acted responsibly, but have tried to scare the students politically, but fortunately very few have listened to you. You also forget to say, honourable Member, that the obstacles to the issuing of a diploma have, in many cases, been removed by the government and tens of thousands of degrees that have been stuck in the past. You also forget to mention that, through digital education, young people, whether they go to public education or go to higher education, are constantly progressing in learning, and merit marks are also born at the same rate as in the previous period, so they can finish and close the year, honourable Member. This is what we have been trying to do, so that young people can have a better chance of learning, and they can also make a living through tax incentives. We did not withdraw the support of families, like your allies, Ferenc Gyurcsány and his associates, but we provided and even increased the opportunities for young people, even for mothers, for others to take the KRESZ exam, to obtain a language exam [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or move forward in another way. We took advantage of the epidemic situation to provide them with an additional opportunity. [[The president's ringing again.]] Not restrictions, like your allies.
u2020-05-18-199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2020-05-18-200	Thank you very much. You are very uncomfortable with this subject, obviously, Mr Secretary of State, because you have not responded specifically to my question in the two minutes. You talked about emigration, graduation, digital education, everything that might affect young people, but you didn't answer my question. I don't know, I don't think you're having problems with your intellectual abilities, but it's just an unpleasant subject for you, because it's clear from this that you have only one help for young people: be indebted. For ten years here in Parliament, you have rightly whipped the previous governments by indebting the country, by lending people foreign exchange loans. You're doing the same thing with student loans, young people, so think about it a little bit. Young people would be looking forward to real help, and let me offer you an Austrian example, Viktor Orbán likes to view Austria as a laboratory, where they do not lend credit to young people, they do not indebte them, but they provide real, non-refundable support to young people who have lost their jobs because of the epidemic. Take this and follow the Austrian example in this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-201	Thank you, Congressman. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-202	Thank you very much. I am also pleased with your semi-phrase of recognition, and thank you, honourable Member, but let us look at what you think does not affect young people: it is not affected by primary education, it is not affected by high school education for young people, it is not affected by university education, it is not affected by young people's graduation, it is not affected by young people's graduation, it is not affected by early schooling, it is not affected by the tax relief of start-up businesses, the katás business and family support. So these are the ones that do not affect the young Hungarians, according to you. Honourable Congressman, Hungary has decided, and I must disagree with you, and has decided not to give aid. Today, we have repeatedly repeated the amount of employment support that we are providing and what investment-enhancing, job-creating subsidies we are providing. I am very pleased that in my own district, speaking of small business, large business, speaking of companies of 10 people and thousands of people, each of them is able to make use of employment support, which represents more than HUF 100 thousand per month exactly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] either by keeping the younger or the older workforce. In CSOK and baby shower support, they receive grants [[The president's ringing again.]] , even the young Hungarians, for which there are no examples in Europe, but you have not voted for them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "How do you assess the situation of agriculture as a result of the effects of the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas asked for a reply. I ask Congressman Simicskó to accept the response. [[On Dr. István Simicskó's signal:]] He'll take it. Mr István Simicskó, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2020-05-18-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There are many questions, rightly in view of the coronal virus epidemic, because, indeed, this is an extraordinary situation in the absence of such a pandemic for a hundred years, and all countries, all sectors, all people are affected by this epidemic, and it obviously affects the decision, lifestyle and lifestyle of all of us. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that we certainly agree here in this House that it is important to maintain the stable functioning of agriculture and the food industry, because this is a guarantee of security of supply. The continuity of food supply must be ensured. I was pleased to see and we all saw that, as part of the government's economic protection plan, the agricultural portfolio provided an additional HUF 25 billion to entrepreneurs in difficulty due to the epidemic. Farmers can obtain credit free of charge thanks to the help of the agricultural purse, the overdraft of the Agricultural Széchenyi Card. The maximum amount of the eligible loan was increased from HUF 100 million to HUF 200 million, and it was obviously made free of interest and cost. This is a huge help to people and businesses living in agriculture, I think. Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions: how do you assess the situation of Hungarian agriculture in the current situation of the coronal virus epidemic and drought, as has already been mentioned in part. My second question would also concern what further supportive steps Hungarian agricultural enterprises can expect. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-205	Thank you, Congressman Simicskó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. [[17.20]]
u2020-05-18-206	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I think this is the best time to say that the agricultural sector is a truly strategic sector for our national economy. During this critical period, we have demonstrated that we can clearly and perfectly provide enough food, safe food materials for everyone within the Hungarian borders and outside the borders. This will also enhance our food production, our safe food production, to which we have spent a great deal of our time in recent years. Today, when we talk about an emergency, we can really see that stores, shops, butchers, bakery stores have the same choice, or I might even say that there is a safer choice. In recent days, the Minister has announced it, but I have also said for quite a long time that Hungarian agriculture, if it has a little better year, can produce food safely for some 25 million people. This will, of course, require the use of new technologies and new procedures. From this point of view, I would like to reassure you, as well as everyone interested, that our food supply is safe. We also know that the sector has suffered serious negative effects in the last three months, which is why we have a rescue package of around HUF 25 billion for all operators in the food economy, which will mainly help and serve the various livestock and ornamental plants sectors. You referred to drought, lack of precipitation. I have already responded to this in part to our colleague from the LMP, but it is clear that new technologies, new procedures and not least the new irrigation system, the possibility provided by the irrigation law, and the development programme, which starts with HUF 17 billion a year, will provide us with the certainty that we can produce safely in a new period such as this year's drought year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your patience.
u2020-05-18-207	I apologize to the Honourable Parliament for being careless. István Simicskó is next in a minute, 60 seconds.
u2020-05-18-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I think it's a very important standard of how when people get into trouble, another group of people can help them. So in real trouble, in real emergencies, who is what kind of person is in reality. I believe that this thesis is the same for the group of people, especially for state leadership, and obviously also for those who make responsible decisions in the government. So what kind of government is, in reality, in trouble. What I see from KDNP is that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power to help Hungarian people, to help those working in the agricultural sector, to help the 174 thousand agricultural enterprises that are doing a lot in Hungary today to ensure that the supply of Hungarian people is safe and predictable. We're cheering for the weather, and we're hoping it'll bring us a little more precipitation, and that's why we're looking for a better harvest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sándor Farkas has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-05-18-210	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The recent market difficulties in the agricultural sector and the challenges of the near future, including the current circumstances caused by the coronal virus epidemic, point to the need to expand the existing agricultural risk management toolbox. There were plenty of opportunities like this. Right now we have a law before Parliament, which will serve to extend the agricultural crisis insurance system, the essence of which is that, in addition to agricultural compensation, plant insurance premiums and ice relief and mitigation, it appears as a new fourth pillar. In this context, producers will be able to compensate for losses caused by market disturbances, price falls or animal and plant diseases. This also contributes a large part to complementing this programme. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-211	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes this agenda. Congressman Antal Csárdi applied in order of business. You have the floor, Congressman, in two minutes.
u2020-05-18-212	Thank you very much for the floor. I asked for the floor in order of business because Máté Kocsis spoke to me on several occasions during his immediate question. Unfortunately, I must say that neither Matthew Kocsis nor Tibor Pogácsás were telling the truth. He wasn't telling the truth when he tried to make it appear in the form of VIII or IX. districts that have not completed the task assigned to them. The data sheets required for the supporting document have been uploaded to Annex VIII. on 18 February and 20 February respectively. The letter from the Ministry, in which it informed the municipality of the withdrawal of the funds, concludes with the following sentence: This means that the municipalities have lost their development resources by taking all the necessary measures to enable these improvements to take place. But don't be surprised. It's worth looking at the amounts. From the two districts, we are talking about the districts of Budapest in the single constituency of Máté Kocsis, while the Hungarian Handball Association, the president of which is Máté Kocsis, suddenly out of nowhere, and now we know for sure that he did not get 1.3 billion HUF out of nothing during the crisis. I think that these figures speak for themselves, and on the basis of the data, the Budapesters will be able to deduct the appropriate conclusions, and the kind of misinformation that the Ministry and the Head of the Group have done will be thoroughly refuted by the mayors concerned. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-213	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. I call on my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order as provided for in the previously published Director General's Information. I call on the Members involved in the debate to remain in the Chamber only if possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, who have spoken in the debate and who are applying for two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting shall, if necessary, provide them with information. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the exchange of information within the Schengen Information System for legal harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/10093. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. There is a 15-minute time frame at the disposal of Congressman Dávid Héjj, who is the rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-18-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain laws relating to the exchange of information under the Schengen Information System for legal harmonisation purposes, T/10093. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to introduce domestic legislation which is essential for the implementation of three regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the necessary amendment of the sectoral laws concerned. [[17 .30]] In line with the provisions of EU legislation to improve the Schengen information system, the bill simplifies or complements the domestic rules on operation of the system, complements the system of alerts, for example in the field of expulsion or child protection, and also aims to improve the detection of multiple identities belonging to the same biometric series. In addition, the proposal removes information gaps, addresses possible structural gaps and includes important data protection and warranty rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted simplifies operational cooperation between national authorities and ensures interoperability between systems. This means that end-users, in particular border police and law enforcement bodies, the Alien Police Authority, the Asylum Authority and judicial authorities can obtain the information necessary for the performance of their duties with rapid, smooth, regular and controlled access. Dear House, For Hungary, the new Schengen information system is of particular importance, as it allows for more effective and decisive action against terrorism, illegal migration and cross-border crime, thereby creating greater security for all European and Hungarian citizens. In view of the amendments envisaged for harmonisation purposes, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-215	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, is sitting here in the velvet chair. I'm asking you, do you wish to speak now?
u2020-05-18-216	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to speak at the end of the final debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz.
u2020-05-18-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There has not been a serious debate about the legislative proposal for EU harmonisation before us, either in Parliament or during the debate stages of the Commission. Developing and improving the effectiveness of the Schengen information system is an interest that is important for all of us. I recall that the importance of border protection has been mentioned on several occasions in the speeches during the general debate phase, in particular with regard to the expected return of migratory pressures in the future. The protection of our borders is also the protection of the borders of the European Union. The achievement of free movement within the Schengen area can only be maintained in peacetime with the strong protection of these borders. In any event, increasing the effectiveness of the Schengen information system, introducing new elements and simplifying the cooperation of the various authorities within the system will strengthen the protection of the Schengen area by allowing more decisive action to be taken against terrorism, illegal migration and cross-border crime and irregular border crossings. This, I think, is clear to all of us, and I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Ms Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-05-18-220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The proposal deals with the main provisions relating to the implementation of EU law, the proposal allows every alert placed by a country applying the SIS system to constitute a legal basis for a police measure and clarifies the concept of hidden control in accordance with EU legislation; it is not a secret gathering of information, but, for example, a condition for minor issues during certification. In view of this, the proposal contains a number of detailed rules concerning the location of domestic alerts and the enforcement action taken on the basis of them. Such an alert may be placed not only with regard to the police but also to civil national security bodies. The proposal also complies with legislative obligations arising from EU law when it integrates targeted control into the domestic legal system and sets out its detailed rules. Travel restrictions on children at risk are regulated as a similar new legal institution, the latter being to prevent the police from leaving the territory of Hungary by the person with whom an alert has been placed with regard to the child at risk. In order to prevent unlawful removal, the proposal regulates the alert that may be placed by the court for children who are at risk of unlawful removal by parents, family members or guardians and whose travel must be prevented. It is important that the proposal also provides for the possibility of placing the Dactyloscopy data and fingerprints in the SIS system where the person concerned is a perpetrator of a serious crime or terrorist offence. With regard to the data thus recorded, the proposal also lays down rules for the placement of an alert. In order to ensure the effectiveness of alerts, the proposal also includes rules on data reconciliation and data exchange in relation to several information systems, such as the Interpol database, the new SIS system should include a mechanism to notify Member States when third-country nationals have failed to comply with their obligation to return within the time limit for voluntary departure. This mechanism should help Member States to fulfil their obligations to implement return decisions and their obligations to impose entry bans. The implementation of these obligations will be settled by the proposal. The proposal also sets out the procedure for persons wanted under arrest warrants. The specific feature of this alert is that the issuing court sends the arrest warrant to the competent police department and the police arrange to place the signal. A further feature is that, due to the outstanding importance of this type of signal for fundamental rights, the SIRENE bureau will also verify the data before placing it. Checks on fundamental rights are particularly important given the fact that a wide range of fundamental human rights can be affected by free movement, residence and data protection by signals entered in the SIS system, which, however, does not have an independent redress system. The additional point of the proposal protecting children is that, in accordance with the procedure for requiring the entry of an alert for children at risk of unlawful removal, those who are entitled to apply for an alert may request that the alert be entered in the international IT register at the court. It is appropriate to authorise the parent to submit the application and, in the case of a child under guardianship, the guardian who, with the consent of the guardian, may initiate the procedure as well as guardianship. The procedure falls within the jurisdiction of a district court and is based on the place of residence or residence of the child concerned. The swift termination of the procedure shall ensure that the court is bound by an obligation to carry out such proceedings. In any event, the proposal essentially provides for the transposition of EU law in Hungary, and it is linked to the establishment of justified procedural arrangements. In addition, the proposal complies with a number of legislative obligations arising from EU law to protect children in order to prevent child abduction abroad. In view of this, this extremely careful work is supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction. Thank you very much. [[17.40]]
u2020-05-18-221	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I'll ask if someone else would like to comment in the time frame you can see on the display. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and then I would ask Mr Károly Kontra, who is sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur, to conclude the debate.
u2020-05-18-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A bill is now being negotiated in Parliament, with which, on the one hand, we are fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation by negotiating and adopting it. This proposal is intended to improve and further develop the Schengen information system. Thank you very much for the support of the proposal in the first round debate and today's debate by my fellow Members representing the political groups, and I ask the factions, my fellow Members, to support it in the final vote, because this is in line with the Hungarian national interests, the fulfilment of the EU's obligations, which will also help Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people and the security of the European Union's citizens. In view of this, I would like to ask you with all due respect to support by your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-223	Thank you, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to strengthen the security of citizens and the debate on the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/10309. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-18-224	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10309 on the amendment of individual laws to strengthen the security of citizens. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, 3 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is a comprehensive package of amendments aimed at improving the security of citizens by increasing the efficiency of the operation and cooperation of different organisations, by eliminating problems in the application of certain legislation, by supporting electronic forms of data reporting and certification of persons and rights, and by preparing for future challenges in the areas of cyber security, asylum or disaster protection. Allow me to highlight some of the major proposals. Simplification of the electronic information security organisation system by reviewing the transposition of the relevant EU Directive into the domestic legal order. Then a mandate to process the biometric data of missing persons and unknown bodies, as well as of missing persons' blood relatives, will allow for a faster detection of missing persons cases. In addition, the creation of a so-called elimination register in order to detect accidental trace contamination. Then this is the extension of the source records of the facial analysis register and the 2007 LXXX on asylum. supplementing law with rules on locking in order to better establish the identity of asylum seekers. This is also the introduction of the necessary legislative changes for the implementation of a so-called NAVY project aimed at rationalising certain public registers. It is important, for example, to abolish the obligation of drivers to keep those documents with them in parallel with the introduction of a driving licence and an electronic licence. In addition, the introduction of a service identifier in passenger transport, which will allow for the control of passengers' travel rights by e-personal use. And last but not least, the establishment of a cybersecurity centre and research institute, the introduction of rules to prevent and stop cyber attacks. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments envisaged by the bill to increase the security of citizens deserve support, and I would like to ask you to express this in tomorrow's vote with your supporting votes. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-225	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. Secretary of State Károly Kontra!
u2020-05-18-226	Mr President, I would like to comment at the end of the debate.
u2020-05-18-227	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-05-18-228	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The title of the bill is to amend individual laws to strengthen the security of citizens. In fact, however, there is a risk of even greater vulnerability for Hungarian citizens. It would be justified to provide a number of new instruments for the security of the Hungarian people, which are also included in the bill. In particular, significant progress is needed in the area of cyber security. At the same time, the most critical rules are completely magnified and pose a risk of the emergence of abusive case-law, see the fact that Internet services can be rendered unavailable for up to 180 days as an example. This is how Hungarians, with the promise of security, become increasingly vulnerable, from the government of Fidesz, which has long been throwing down constitutional barriers. Because of the adoption of the Delegated Act and the clearly abusive application of regulation governance, there is no reason for trust anymore. Fidesz has demonstrated that in an emergency, it is putting its own selfish power interests first and uses the instruments of the special legal order to do so. Unfortunately, our faction cannot support it, as no amendments have been accepted. Thank you.
u2020-05-18-229	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. He does not wish to comment in the remaining timeframes, so I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2020-05-18-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, First of all, I would like to respond to what my colleague Zita Gurmai said, who said that abusive case-law could develop in the course of the adoption of this bill. I would like to say that, before the legislative proposal was tabled, Mr Sándor Pintér called for a seven-party consultation, where it was possible for the political groups to express their views and we asked them to do so if they had any proposals. During the first round debate, I also found that the factions understood the importance of this bill, and if they did not agree with every part of it, with each amendment, but with the basic objectives, I think they did not question it. I ask everyone to support it, because this is a bill to be adopted for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. Allow me to say a few words about some of the substantive amendments contained in the summarised amendment proposal. Even in consultation with the factions, there was a need for the possibility of a reliability assessment to be uniformly extended by the bill to both bodies entitled to conduct public procurement procedures in the field of health. The same amendment was finally tabled by Mr Lajos Kósa. In addition to the State Health Supply Centre, the Government has supported the possibility of ensuring reliability for employees of the National Health Insurance Fund Manager in public procurement procedures. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This in itself is evidence that what you said about overpowering and disregarding the principles of law is completely unfounded. On the basis of an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Classified Data, the data of the Security Managers and Assistant Security Managers may be recorded by the National Security Inspectorate. What was about cyber affairs, cyber security, here in the first round of debate, were also heated comments. We also know how important this is, and we, the Ministry of the Interior and the Government are doing everything in our power to ensure that prepared personnel with adequate professional knowledge and an organisation with appropriate tools can protect the safety of Hungarian people. The proposal to facilitate the operation of the Parliamentary Guard was also tabled as a further amendment. These are, in fact, changes that create coherence. The amendment refers to the possibility of regulation in the instrument governing the public body to the subject of the internal regulations of the Commander of the Parliamentary Guard and to the amendments necessary to establish the internal coherence of the law. Further amendments to the bill lead to the necessary linguistic and legal clarification in the text. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt this bill, because, as it is stated in its title, it serves and promotes the safety of citizens. And I think that if we look back on the last ten years, we can say that today Hungarian people and Hungary are safer than they were ten years ago. This bill, which will be voted on tomorrow, will also serve the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary, and I therefore ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. After the debate was closed, the debate was closed. I declare that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on strengthening the role of churches in the area of social and child protection benefits and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/9933. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-18-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 30 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9933 on strengthening the role of churches in the area of social and child protection benefits. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, With the proposed legislation, the government intends to strengthen the role of churches in the area of social and child protection benefits. The bill regulates legal issues relating to the restructuring of the institutional system and its change in the maintenance person on several points without the need for completeness. The proposal provides that the approval of the Minister of Human Resources is necessary for the transfer of the state-owned social or child protection institution to a legal person of ecclesiastical law, which requires prior consultation with both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for the Coordination of Relations with the Churches. The proposal addresses both the legal fate of the churches and the social institutions listed in the Annex to the proposal, which have previously been taken over and operated by the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service Association, according to which 36 real estates and other property necessary for the performance of the task will be owned free of charge by the current operator. Where the transfer of the operation of the social and child protection institution has a historical and/or other protected register on the property's property, the Minister responsible shall contribute in advance to the transfer in view of the protected nature. The proposal introduces a guarantee rule under which the assets thus transferred to church legal persons are transferred, free of charge, burden and demand, and these items are recorded in the books at the time of transfer. The proposal also settles the termination of the supply contract of the institutions received and the issue of termination, in which case the ownership of the immovable property and movable property transferred shall be returned to the State. In the light of the above, we can see that the Government is committed to thanking for its unselfish social and social responsibility, by expanding and creating the necessary conditions for the provision of essential social and child protection services, and by continuing to give genuine support to churches and other organisations performing the charitable service. In view of this, I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-233	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Attila Philip: No, thank you.]] Secretary of State at the end, I suppose. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. Interventions by the Members shall take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. You have the floor.
u2020-05-18-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The general debate was a very long one and could be said to have included ideological elements. Obviously, the factions were able to tell us what they thought about this proposal. I had already asked questions from a different approach, but at that time I was not given an answer to which I could say that I was completely reassured, so I am going to try again to ask Mr Secretary of State a question. It was also mentioned here in the Notice of the Legislative Committee that there are some of these real estates to be handed over, which represent significant architectural value and even historical value, so they are specifically classified as monuments. I would like to mention two examples. For example, there is the Benyovszky Castle, built in the late 1700s in Börcsöny, which is unique in itself. Not only in relation to certain historical aspects, but it can be said that this castle is unique in its own style. This is a Scottish-style castle, which is not a great example, by the way, let alone in Hungary, but not in the surrounding countries at all. The other is the Esterházy Castle in Devecser, which was built in the 1500s. This in itself represents a very serious architectural value. We have heard that in such cases, i.e. when it comes to the transfer of property under historic protection, it is necessary for the prior approval of the competent minister, but this alone does not provide sufficient guarantees, nor do I see in the proposal any guarantees that would ensure that these properties will be returned to the State, if appropriate, by preserving their status, taking into account the conservation aspects of the monument. I do not see the guarantees that ecclesiastical organizations, which deal with social care, have the professional capacity to manage such renovation programmes, which may arise. What professional help do church organizations receive? When is it expected, in what form and in what volume, that tenders will be available so that such historic buildings can be maintained? And in particular, what kind of supervision will prevail in order to preserve these extremely important buildings and architectural works? I am very confident that I will receive a reassuring answer to my questions from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
u2020-05-18-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. And then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State, Attila Philip, who is present on behalf of the rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[18.00]]
u2020-05-18-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, questions have also been raised in the context of the general debate, which I think I also tried to say and answer at the TAB meeting, but I would be very happy to do once again. The law actually contains two things, and it's good to separate the two. One is a procedure. It is true here that what has been said is that it is recorded from this point forward in the process of handing over exactly what is meant by the process of handing over. So if a church maintainer asks for it, it will be done by public government decision on the basis of a specific proposal from a specific minister and the involvement of other ministers. The other half is about the law and this is what this Annex 1 is about, that the property, where the service is performed today, should not only be in property management but also in ownership. Precisely because the property is always considered to be part of the service, so the churches do not take over the property, but the service and the property related to the service, so it is round and complete, so paragraph 4 of the Act is specifically about the rescinding of the tasks transferred. It also stated that, if the church is no longer able to provide that service, it is obliged to return to the State the property related to the provision of tasks explicitly and specifically, at the book value. So there's a guarantee that if someone doesn't do the job, the property will be returned to the state. On the other hand, I would also like to ask for the support of the Members for this proposal, because I also think that the current date shows perfectly that the churches have played a major role in social care, taking on today, and doing the kind of care that comes from their past, from their mission. This law will only support this mission in the years and times to come. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to the next item, I'm forced to take a five-minute break. (Sunning: 18.02 18.08) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Sándor Szabó and Dr. Winner Vinnai)
u2020-05-18-238	Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain administrative laws and the presentation of free asset allocation and the summary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9934. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. They have a total of 15 minutes. First, in no more than eight minutes, I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. [[18.10]]
u2020-05-18-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous speech, the ladies indicated that it was not quite possible to hear it, and I do not know if it can now be heard. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes.]] It's audible, it's understandable, it's good, so one more time. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 30 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain administrative laws and the T/9934 on the provision of free property. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 25 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table includes a number of objectives, one of which is the creation of rules to reduce administrative bureaucracy. The legal institution for pending decisions was born in 2015 at the will of the legislator. Based on experience and in the spirit of cutting red tape, the pending decision will be terminated as a formal act, with the condition that its positive effects on citizens remain. These effects therefore automatically take place without a formal decision. In this way, the customer's rights will not be undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the proposal, two state-owned properties will be owned free of charge by the Public Foundation for Research in Central and Eastern European History and Society. The Foundation shall be established to carry out public tasks related to scientific research, public education, education and the protection of cultural goods. It was also necessary to amend the law on civil status. The current legislation does not currently contain the concept of "non" as its definition is based on biological grounds. The birth certificate is not actually based on the fact established by the doctor, which is declared by the birth certificate, i.e. it justifies the registered facts and rights until proven otherwise, so it has no legal effect. However, on the basis of the gender declared by the register, rights or obligations may already arise. Accordingly, it is necessary to define the concept of "no birth'. In view of the fact that it is not possible to complete the biological change, it is necessary to state in law that it is not possible to change it in the register. Dear House, The purpose of amending the law on the formation and protection of the built environment should also be mentioned. For the purpose of changing the use of the 400 square metres or more gross floor structure to commercial purposes, the municipal municipal notary of the seat of the district in which the building is situated, the notary of the metropolitan district municipality in the capital district, and the area directly managed by the Metropolitan Municipality, will be replaced by the metropolitan notary by the metropolitan and county government office. It is also a major objective to make our national shrines in Mátraverebély-szentkút and Máriapócs a national memorial place. The protection of national memorial sites, the preservation of future generations and their peaceful visit are public interests, in which religious communities and ecclesiastical legal persons play an important role. Our national shrines are an important part of our Christian identity and historical heritage. Dear Parliament, The amendments envisaged by the proposal aim to sufficiently regulate the objectives of cutting red tape, increasing the efficiency and speed of procedures and preserving monuments. The proposal therefore rightly calls for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. We are now listening to the minority opinion. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2020-05-18-241	Thank you very much. Dear House, The opposition members of the committee did not share the enthusiasm of the pro-government members of the committee for the bill. The original goal, the reduction of bureaucracy, is, of course, appropriate, and that is the least of the problems in this bill, but, like many of the legislative proposals that we have before us, is that much more has been put on this by the government. What I would care less about now is the benefit of wealth, but I do mention in one sentence that we still do not understand how it relates to the reduction of bureaucracy in order for the Schmidt Mária foundation to receive wealth from the government. It hardly reduces bureaucracy, at most it's good for friends, and it fits into this money-sharing line rather than cutting red tape. At the committee meeting, the debate was essentially around two proposals, and in these there was a strong counter-opinion. Both were mentioned by the majority speaker. Let me now speak on the other side of the coin about what opposition representatives have indicated in this regard. One proposal is to amend the civil status law. A previous amendment was tabled by Mrs Bernadett Szél, and the members of the Legislative Committee of the Democratic Coalition, in order to remove this paragraph from this bill, since the practical effect of this proposal is that it is virtually impossible to change legal status in Hungary by not including it in personal documents. From this point on, if a transgender or intersexual person changes his sex with a non-transmutation surgery, there will be no trace of this in his papers, which means and the organisations of those concerned have very strongly drawn the attention of the Members of Parliament that from now on, every time they have to formally justify themselves, they will end up in an impossible, discriminating, disadvantageous situation. From this point on, at a job interview, you have to explain to me, at the time of an attestation, why their true sex is different from the sex recorded in their personal documents. I understand, of course, the perverse, or if we are at church shrines once, the Pharisee argument that the state is leaving this area, but that is not true. The State would withdraw from this territory if it did not record the gender in any way. But it's not what's happening, it's what happens when the state records the gender at birth, and it says that from here on out, if you want to change that, if that's not your real gender, then put yourself through the daily humiliation. I must say that this is a cruel and inhumane regulation. This is not justified by any legitimate State interest and is not justified by any legitimate considerations. There is no reason why this would be necessary other than to prove how much they reject everything that belongs to the modern world in this area. I understand, that might be your opinion. You may have an opinion on intersex people, you may have an opinion on transsexual people, maybe I wouldn't confuse the two, as opposed to you, the people who otherwise belong to the LGBTQ society, the community, but that's your private business. But what is happening here is that this kind of transphobic homophobic mentality is being raised to the level of state legislation, and that is not good, fellow Members. These people are just as much our countrymen as they are Hungarian citizens, just like you and me. They have no reason and no right to distinguish between them. At the same time, we also said in the Legislative Committee that this kind of regulation is also legally wrong. Based on the consistent case-law of the Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe's resolutions, it is against the European Convention on Human Rights, so it is likely that if we adopt this regulation, the result will be that the Court of Human Rights will decide on these matters against the Hungarian State and will establish an obligation of compensation, which, of course, will not be paid by you, but by the Hungarian taxpayers. We asked for this proposal in the vote tomorrow, and once again we are giving you the opportunity to consider this issue. [[18.20]] Do not make the lives of Hungarian citizens hell because of their own ideological blindness! It doesn't make sense, it's not humane, it's not good for anyone, but some people are very bad for them. The other regulation is indeed the regulation, which was also mentioned by the Member, which was normally submitted by the Legislative Committee, bypassing the ordinary legislative procedure and which includes further restrictions on municipal rights. The essence of this is that, on 20 August, the state will essentially einstand a significant part of Budapest, all its major public areas, the entire World Heritage Zone and a number of other public areas. Moreover, not only for the period of the August 20th festival, because this would be unacceptable, but it is not the case in a 10-day period between 15 August and 25 August. The state says that this is a local government area, but we decide that the state has it from now on. It is very difficult not to think that this type of proposal fits into the series of proposals that have been made before this House. Such was, among other things, the proposal for free use of land for priority constructions, such as the proposal for priority economic areas, which deprives municipalities of their rights, such as the proposal announced in the Government Decree under the Power Act, which distracts parking and vehicle tax from municipalities; and I could continue this line for a long time. You have not been able to settle for almost three quarters of a year now that you lost in the municipal elections in Budapest and in a number of rural cities. I understand it's hard, don't tell me we've had this a couple of times, but I have to say, the fact that you're frustrated by it is not a reason to put your hands on someone else's property. I do not even mention the fact that there are some who assume that this ban, which covers a lot of areas and is completely unnecessary for the celebrations of 20 August, is also linked to the fact that this year's parade of gay pride was announced on 22 August. We don't know that. We'll see. In any case, I see that, with this proposal, you are violating new municipal rights and again without any interest that would make it necessary. It could be agreed with the municipalities. Get used to not everything happening on command. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-18-242	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, who is present on behalf of the authors, if you would like to comment now or later. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Now, Mr. President.]] Now? You have the floor, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Again, I apologize for waiting for me. I have no excuse. All criticism is justified. I would also like to thank you very much for your speeches on the Legislative Committee. The nature of the debates has been well developed, and I do not want to repeat them. What I would like to say is that the government considers this to be an important bill, which proposes to amend laws on administrative matters in general. It is not against parliamentary law or the Constitution or anything else that we regulate several subjects in a bill. Indeed, the most important part of this bill in terms of legal institutions is the establishment of a legal institution for a pending decision so that the legal effects remain. This measure encourages the administrative authority to make its decisions as quickly as possible. This legal institution has worked, and therefore the formal structure of this legal institution, so that the consequences remain in substance, we believe, is a correct decision. With regard to many other points, I would only respond very, very briefly to what has been said. I understand that the debate is maintained between the government side and the opposition side. The governing party and the government clearly believe that this proposal, which is about fixing birth in a non-registrar procedure, is on the side of freedom and helps to resolve an uncertain legal situation. It is indeed a matter of making decisions at the moment, without legal authority, in administrative and judicial proceedings, if I understand correctly, that the proposal of opposition representatives is to further strengthen this situation and take a position on gender identity issues. We don't think this is the right approach. We believe that state records work excellently with non-data at birth, and otherwise there is complete freedom in Hungary on issues of gender identity. We are facing international investigations in this regard. The other question, and this may be added to the points relating to the City Park, which Mr Arató did not mention, is on the same subject. It is, however, that the Constitution records three national celebrations, and on these national holidays organised by the state, which is inevitable, it is inevitable that it is the government that organises these public holidays de facto, and in this case the question of the legitimacy of public use as enshrined in the Constitution cannot arise. The bill concerns the granting of exemption from public access charges for this period. I think this is proportionate, necessary and fully justified, otherwise partly codifying the current situation. So that's how it worked in general. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] by agreement, as Mr Arató says, but the vast majority of the agreements have already pointed in this direction. This is what the legislation now intends to lay down. With regard to the City Park, it is also the case that the government maintains its position that, although there are final building permits, a building in the City Park that is not supported or built by the Metropolitan Assembly is not being built, but, in view of the settlement of green areas, the ban on change should be lifted under these legal provisions. I would like to be a local government that, according to your understanding, is being humiliated by the Hungarian government. Over the last ten years, we've been desecrating the municipalities in a citation sign saying that we've taken over 1300 billion debts from them and doubled their own revenues. So, I wish to all of you that every government would abuse them in this way, as we have afflicted the municipalities, I say this once again in the midst of great quotes. I would therefore like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your pre-emptive pro-government trust. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-18-244	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a speaker, and you have more than 10 minutes from your 15-minute timeframe until the end of the debate if you wish to make use of it. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-05-18-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bill, I do not wish to repeat the lectures I gave in my main speech, but it is a fact that in the legislative process I hoped that with the amendments, all the points that I believe are not legal or do not serve the purpose which is contained in the preamble may be corrected. Somehow I felt on Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, when I said my keynote speech and raised those few fully legal questions, so I didn't politicalize, but I tried to add my knowledge in my capacity as a lawyer, then I sensed in his eyes that perhaps this proposal could really be improved, at least on issues that I said were not good. I would like to highlight the 2006 LIII. Law 11/C. The new paragraph 5 of Article 5 of the Act, which refers to the fact that if, in an investment that is a priority for the national economy, they see a construction extending from a neighbouring plot to the site of the investment, that legislative proposal should call upon the owner of the building or the owner of the land to be dismantled. This is what I have outlined to Mr. Secretary of State, in order to consider, that there may have been a structure there for 30-40-50-80-100 years, perhaps already, I don't know which owner he has since, who has built in good faith or in bad faith, and then suddenly gets a letter to unravel, my dear. [[18.30]] We all know that demolition costs almost as much as construction, and not everyone is prepared to have such a situation happen. In fact, it is no one's fault that there is a major investment in the neighbouring site from a national point of view. Actually, it's a lot luckier than going to the casino. I have suggested to Mr Secretary of State that I think it is very well-founded and justified, and I am sure that the fact that a project of this type can only be determined on the basis of facts learned at the planning stage is that it is not a great loss if a given land is transferred to another site for this cross-border construction, and then the parties discuss the difference in value with each other, but one thing is certain that the construction is not going to take place. Then the amendment came, so to speak, I expected everything, but this, which was solved by a very simple hussar cut. I hope it's not Mr. Balázs Orbán, I hope he's not. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I can't comply.]] He didn't cut this knight cut, which is huge. In the event that the parties cannot agree, the proposal is to bring a lawsuit against the owner in order for this breakdown to take place. That's when I said I'm sorry, it's a procedure, it could be a long procedure. So how did the government solve it by cutting knights? A judgment of first instance may be enforced irrespective of appeal. There are a few little problems, Mr. Secretary. And you know that, don't you? That we also have a civil court order, and that in the first instance, executability, regardless of appeal, should be included in the civil order, because that is the general rule. We know how the lex specialis is, but I still feel that this legislation should have been done a little bit more circumstantial right now. I hope that there will not be many such situations, but let me say that, although the government always asks for it, when we accuse it of arrogant, self-righteous legislation, but if anything, this bill is arrogant and self-righteous. And that's because he wants to get into life conditions that life has created for a long decade, a century, and now just like that, it's the 21st. In the second decade of the century, someone thinks that I will solve this with such a simple stroke of the pen. I can't do this. Even if the judgment of first instance is declared legally or enforceable in vain, it will not be possible. By the way, what's amazing is just think about it one more time. That this is completely contrary to the rules of construction, over-building. As long as there's no bad faith, there's no obligation to break it down. So the civil code should have been redesigned a little bit. Anyway, I'm rooting for you to make this work. I fear that if such situations arise, there will be another legislative proposal here in a year's time, only on this issue. However, I think that although the aim of this proposal is to cut red tape, I feel more bureaucracy. For example, when we talk about the question of catering units over 400 square meters, it drags off the licensing not only for 75 days, but also that it does not include these 75 days with all sorts of requested authorities and various contributions, and I do not know what time it is, which means that, in fact, if an entrepreneur encounters a more sturdy administration team, he will never be able to build or create or change functions in life. I think that this is a kind of powerful intervention in the freedom of enterprise that I cannot support in any way. I can sense from this proposal, although, as I said in the keynote speech, there are some good elements in it, but I have a very strong feeling that the administration wants to occupy a dominant position. I think that in a democracy this dominant position should not even be maintained by appearances. So if we are talking about living and letting live, because it is a fundamental principle of democracy, and of course, that everyone adheres to the law, live by law, function and respect the rights of others, but when the citizen feels that the government is settling on it as such an umbrella, he creates a terrible amount of legislation in each life situation, even in things that are completely unnecessary, because everyday moral values and natural laws are determining how to behave, but such an umbrella develops over people, such an administrative umbrella, and the simple man feels that he cannot get out of it, compresses it. And actually, he's telling me I'm not going to do anything. I'm not gonna do anything, because if I don't have a good buddy in official institutions, then no one's gonna take care of my business; otherwise, I'm not even gonna settle in the sea of law. Thus, a Hungarian person with general knowledge and knowledge today could not tell himself in the simplest procedures what rights and obligations he has. So, with all due respect, I am sure that we will not respond to this proposal because of the objections which you have already and have just made, but I am asking the Secretary of State to say that I do not know how much he has influence in these matters on the government, but if it is indeed his purpose to say here in this Chamber every single day and he talks about a citizen-centred administration, then let them not only express themselves in general, but also in detail. I do not feel that this excessive legislation, this extremely complex legislative system, which already characterizes the public administration, does not help us to follow the law, but rather to create confusion. And when the citizen suddenly tells me that I can't find my way around the forest of rule systems, I'm going to get lost, believe me, Mr. Secretary, and find another way. And that usually happens on the ground of illegality. We should not aim to launch society on the black grey roads because of an emergency situation, and even in the interest of our community, to obtain solutions or permissions. That is what I wanted to say on this proposal, and I still trust in this particular part of the proposal that the government might change its mind and choose a healthier solution from a legal harmonisation point of view and in terms of the situations dictated by life. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-246	Thank you, Congresswoman. I would like to ask the Members and the lady present that someone else would like to comment on the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, on behalf of the rapporteur, to take advantage of his ten minutes.
u2020-05-18-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sure I won't take full time frame, but I'm just saying this to reassure everyone. Speaking of which, I'd like to respond to Congresswoman Varga-Damm. I am sad, because I remember the general debate as I remember it, and I believe that the protocol also confirms in this presumption that the situation was criticised by the Member, I think it is quite legitimate that the lengthy judicial proceedings on such matters... let us hope that this will not take place, let us hope that no problems will never come to light in this regard, that the potential cases are also very limited, but if I understood correctly what the Member said, then it concerned that, in such a case, in such a dispute, we should not allow the extension of administrative or judicial proceedings to push this forward, otherwise, to delay this further. The solution proposed by the committee in the debate, I think it is a correct proposal in this regard, because it says that, while the dispute is going on, it obviously has the rules laid down in civil law on how to settle it if one party or another is right, but that nevertheless, the investment of major importance for the national economy will continue to take place. [[18.40]] I hoped that this Congresswoman would be a relief, but that is not the case. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] I guess that's not what happened, so I can promise you, on behalf of the government, that next time we'll try to take all the demands into account. I'd like to say one last sentence about cutting red tape. I deeply agree with what the congresswoman said. Cut red tape is a serious fight, and I don't think it's over. The government has achieved great success, but there is much to be done in this area. However, I am sure of one thing: the imposition of a conditional decision in such a formal framework, which at that time, when it was introduced, was the right decision because it showed that the citizen is not for the state, but vice versa, the state is for the citizen, and in fact the expression of that decision is the legal institution of the dependent decision, so it was the right decision when it was introduced, but it has now become a formal burden. Thus, in addition to the retention of legal effects, we believe that this is reasonable and serves to reduce bureaucracy. That's all I wanted to add. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on supporting the educational activities of Mathias Corvinus Collegium and the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation follow up on the discussion of the proposal for a comprehensive amendment. The government referral is T/10046. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-05-18-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 14 May 2020 T/10046 on support for the educational activities of Mathias Corvinus Collegium and the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 22 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions, on the basis of Section 46 of the House Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us includes a structure in which special support for highly talented young people is considered to be an essential public interest. In this spirit, it should be established, although the professional conditions are specific, the direction and the concept is correct, that the current resources of Mathias Corvinus College are not sufficient to enable the college to perform its role effectively as the centre of highly talented young people. This bill aims to create these conditions by centralising the necessary professional and resource background. In order to achieve these objectives, the best form of organisation is the Trust Foundation. On behalf of the State, the Mathias Corvinus Collegium joins the Maintenance Tihany Foundation by means of the necessary asset allocation. This accession to the Tihanyi Foundation takes place while providing the minimum capital and the necessary resources. It is a guarantee that accession and asset relief can only take place if the transformation of the foundation to the State is carried out in a way that gives the State a guarantee. The Board of Governors will be appointed to exercise the founding rights. So from now on, the foundation will be a public-interest trust fund, and the founding rights will be exercised by the board. There are significant guarantees in the proposal in terms of the public side, since, in the event of the intention to dispose of the shares, a right of purchase and a prohibition on disposal and debiting is laid down to ensure it. In the event of any disposal, revenue may be used solely for the performance of the public task. In the event of termination of the Foundation, all of its assets will be returned to the State. By this arrangement, it is ensured that the assets allocated are always in the public interest of talent management and that this wealth is always available to carry out this task, regardless of the current form of availability. On the basis of the draft, the investment for the renovation of the building constitutes an investment of particular public interest, and the related public administration matters are also considered by the law to be of particular interest and of high importance for the national economy. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask that you support the bill with your votes. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-250	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: After that.]] He's waving at me, and then he's waving at me. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. It would now be up to the Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no two-minute comment during the debate, but I do not see a candidate. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he would like us to know his thoughts and that the debate is closed.
u2020-05-18-251	Yes, yes, thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I understood that you were suggesting in the finest possible gentleman's way that I should keep my words short, and I will do so. I just wanted to thank you for the constructive and partly constructive pro-government and opposition contributions to the bill. I think that a very important bill is the issue of talent management, and I say this without any pathos: this is one of the pledges of Hungary's rise. The Mathias Corvinus College has been a prestigious, prestigious institution that has been operating for 25 years and has also been confirmed by opposition representatives, where talent management will be well placed, and experience with the transformation of Corvinus University has shown that it has been the right decision to reorganize it as a foundation, and it is the right decision to strengthen it with the elements of state national strategy, because it is also suitable for this university to be one of the internationally listed citadels of social science and economics education, which is our strategic goal. We thank you for all your support. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-18-252	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the debate of the Commission's report on the proposal for support from the parliamentary group follows. The submission submitted by representatives of Fidesz MEPs Máté Kocsis, László Böröcz, Imre Vejkey and Péter Harrach KDNP representatives T/10307. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Böröcz, who is present from the rapporteur's side, that he wishes to speak now. [[László Böröcz: Thank you, at the end.]] Thank you very much. The congressman says it's gonna end up in the end. I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. [[18.50]] It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP, who has applied for a statement.
u2020-05-18-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, who are present. I would like to comment very briefly on this proposal. Basically, the justification for this proposal is that everyone must bear the burden of defence, and we agree perfectly with it, and we did not really have a word against the fact that this proposal involved the financing of parties in this way. At the same time, it is worth saying a few words about what came next and how the funds for the Economic Fund were used, and it is also worth mentioning the magnitude of these items. As far as the parties are concerned, as I understand it, 1.2 billion is the withdrawal that came up with the 50 percent withdrawal of the funding of the parties. Overall, I think that it is not a problem that we have to accept this absolutely, and the proposal that we have before us is a technical lead. We do not really have any objections to this, we can say that this proposal is logical in itself. Here's the problem. The creation of the Economic Protection Fund was obviously an important decision, and it was a major measure, which was partly the result of brutal restrictions on the municipalities, so it meant a whole different order of magnitude, HUF 34 billion, that the motor vehicle tax was taken from the municipalities. We know that this has now resulted in two thirds of small settlements having very serious liquidity problems or going into such a situation in the next period. It is an extremely serious measure, and this is anticipating even the debate that will take place at a few points later on the agenda, that it is reported that even universities can be withdrawn, especially large universities in rural areas, with this reason, which would again be unacceptable, because it would entail very serious cuts. The real problem is to look at what these resources are being spent on, and see how a poster campaign started a week or two ago, a propaganda campaign that we asked how much it costs, what its volume and how much it spends on this state propaganda. It is quite clear that we need protection, important, good and effective measures, not propaganda. Which is a much more serious step on Friday, the press reported that the Economic Protection Fund would transfer HUF 80 billion to the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. In total, this year they will spend 140 billion forints. If you compare it to the first amount, it's already two orders of magnitude. If we compare what damage this causes in terms of defence, it is worth talking about a government measure announced today, which is obviously positive in itself, even if it is late months: to create a job, the government launches a wage support programme worth HUF 80 billion, and the government calculates that it will be possible to create 70,000 new jobs using HUF 80 billion. Compared to this, the HUF 140 billion is spent on the completely unsubstantiated development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line compared to 80 billion. So it can be said that if the government's figures are based on the government's resignation of 125 thousand Hungarian jobs, the government will renounce the creation of so many new jobs so that the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line can be established. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that if we read the justification of the law, then I have certainly had to present these figures here, together with the fact that we agree with the proposal before us, and our faction will support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm asking you now that someone wishes to speak on behalf of the government. (No indication. ) I don't see any contact. Member László Böröcz, Fidesz, is present on behalf of the authors. Would you like to react? [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman Böröcz.
u2020-05-18-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this proposal actually contains a technical amendment, as mentioned by the Head of the Group, and the reason for this is obviously that the parties are involved in work, work related to the crisis, related to the epidemic situation, in which their activists are involved, and therefore, obviously, we wanted to create interoperability in the financing of the parties. We very much hope that this will be valid only for this year, because the bill submitted is also about the implementation of the bill until 31 December, and this bill will expire from 1 January, which means that the savings of the factions can be used for the parties as well. It obviously does not belong directly to the subject, which Mr. Group leader said, but in a few thoughts I would respond to it, the slightly more than HUF 30 billion vehicle tax; it is not about taking away the total vehicle tax, but obviously about the remaining 40 percent, since the State is entitled to a basic withdrawal of the remaining 40 percent of the amount from the vehicle tax, but, as the parties, we also believe, the municipalities should be involved in the common defence and, of course, in addition to the measures or one specific measure mentioned by Mr. Group leader, there are obviously dozens of them to help businesses, in order to keep the current jobs and, by some improvements, hopefully, even increase the added value of the services they provide in the future, and thus contribute to the productivity and efficiency of the economy as a whole. And, of course, there are long-term investments that, hopefully, will lead to the country's long-term economic consolidation, and it is certainly not worth taking the funds away from them because then we give up our long-term development opportunities and careers, which is not appropriate because we risk putting the Hungarian economy on a path that would result in the wage level rising considerably in Hungary within 5-10-15-20 years. Obviously, our goal is for everyone in Hungary to have a job, and possibly for the next decades to be accompanied by increasing wages, thus increasing the standard of living. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-256	Thank you very much, Congressman Böröcz. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of laws and of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/9920. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-18-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 30 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. Act T/9920 amending Act T/9920 and certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government is constantly working on the development and competitiveness of higher education, but in the current situation this area is even more appreciated. It has never been more necessary to develop the higher education sphere than it is today. The challenge posed by the coronal virus is also evidence that strengthening the Hungarian knowledge base is a nation-wide strategic interest. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On the basis of the proposal before us, the trust fund will be added to the list of beneficiaries of the establishment of the higher education institution. In the context of the new agricultural strategy for higher education and the change of model, the legislative amendment provides the legal basis for enabling public-interest trust foundations operating model-changing higher education institutions to acquire the property management rights of state-owned land belonging to the National Land Fund, which is already in the management of the institution's assets. [[19.00]] According to the draft, institutional transformations are also supported by the creation of organisational units with legal personality in the new institutional organisation and the proposal sets out a new funding framework for higher education institutions. In order to internationalise our higher education, the draft puts the definition of training and output requirements into institutional competence in the case of joint master's training under the Erasmus+. In addition, in order to ensure quality conditions for education and research, to attract foreign professionals to higher education in Hungary, the appointment of a Hungarian professor of university teaching in the institution takes place in a simplified procedure on the basis of a European qualification. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the above, the proposal aims to promote scientific replacements by establishing a student relationship with the completion of a complex examination in doctoral training, who, in parallel with his or her relationship with a student in general medical or veterinary school, prepares for the acquisition of his or her degree individually. In other words, doctors will be able to prepare for scientific training in a uniquely long, otherwise six-year degree. In addition, in 2013 he started an undivided teacher's training in the field of teacher training in teachers with two versions, secondary and primary teachers, and in the same way as other teachers, a uniform structure of teacher training is established. Finally, according to the proposal, a three-legged model of funding would be introduced for higher education institutions, which would provide specific support for the maintenance of educational, research, artistic activities and infrastructure. By doing so, I call on the honourable Parliament to adopt the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State Bodis, whether he would like to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. That's partly because I'm chairing. [[Defiance.]] I'd like to hear your speeches now, but my monitor indicates that... there's been a change. László Lóránt Keresztes, a representative of the LMP, wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise to be very brief, but I would like to ask a few questions to the Secretary of State, Mr Rector. The general debate has been very long and extensive, and we have received answers in many respects, and we have heard the opinion of the Secretary of State and the Government. There were a lot of things we couldn't agree on. This is obviously also where the opinion of the Legislative Committee was expressed about the role that the government intends to play and the efforts that the government is making to develop and competitiveness higher education. The results that we have seen over the past ten years are contrary, and I am not thinking of Mr State Secretary's specific activity in a ten-year perspective, in particular, we would say that the government has declared war on higher education and scientific life and as if it did not regard its actors as partners; and it is also necessary to recognise that there has been a positive shift in attitudes over the past few years. At the same time, the number of students is very serious, and we see that this mainly affects the higher education institutions in rural areas. My specific questions here in relation to recent weeks, since the general debate that is very important, have all opposition groups indicated that there is a serious lack of consultation and professional discussion with stakeholders, or lack of time, and that the Association of Higher Education Workers has also expressed serious criticisms or concerns, particularly with regard to the elimination of institutional autonomy. In this respect, have you been able to replace some kind of conciliation, to work out this deficiency in some way? It is also clear, and this is what is presented as a huge challenge, and we can say that today this is the most important problem of the entire system of higher education, that the wages of higher education teachers are at an outrageous level. So in particular, today in Hungary, a university assistant with a degree earns less than a charger, and as long as this is the case, it is clearly impossible to talk about the competitiveness of higher education. So what my fellow Member has said is that the aim of involving foreign professionals in domestic institutions is, unfortunately, the practice at present shows that the reverse is true, that Hungarian professionals are forced to go abroad to try their luck. In this respect, we can see that competitiveness and a specific aim of the change of funding are also to give university workers more competitive wages. We know that some institutions are changing here, and according to the commentary, this new funding model is expected to apply to the whole system by 2022. What can they say to the university staff, especially teachers, about the exits and how, to what extent, the terrible big deficiency is expected, about the enormous reduction in teaching wages? I also have a specific question that you may have caught, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Rector, in the context of the debate that we have just had; there is news here that withdrawal in the context of the economic crisis, the Economic Fund, could affect large rural universities. In particular, a HUF 3.5 billion potential withdrawal has emerged from the University of Pécs in terms of news. What do you know about that? I think that Mr Rector knows precisely that, if withdrawal at this level affects universities, it is inextricable, so it can cause huge tragedies and dismissals in these universities, so I would like a reassuring answer to that, and I very much hope to receive a rebuttal from the Secretary of State that this will not happen. In short, these are my questions. Obviously, I do not wish to repeat what has been said in the general debate. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-260	Thank you very much. Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, please.
u2020-05-18-261	Mr President, Dear House, Very briefly, taking advantage of Mr Rector's presence and the fact that, where appropriate, we can get answers to specific issues that have not been fully resolved in the context of the general debate, I would like to get a professional explanation, and this is a question without any political overtones for you, that 91.4 thousand people have applied to higher education, so we have experienced an amazing fall of about 20,000. An interesting argument has been put forward in this regard that there were some who led back to the incredible decline in the number of students for demographic reasons. As a big hobbyist of demography and a servant of the growth of Hungarian families, I would like to reject this argument because fortunately in Hungary such a population disaster does not occur from one year to the next. However, we also need to see that, say, in the case of ELTE, the decline in the number of candidates is quite negligible, but if we look at a slightly wider perspective, we can see that there have been 1500 fewer students at the Budapest University of Economics, 1600 at the University of Pécs, 1800 at Szeged and 3000 at Debrecen. Here, however, we should be able to explain the reason for this in terms of country-wide division. It is obviously a multifactorial issue, and there are a number of problems in this system. I would also like to remind you that the undissolved housing cataclysm and housing crisis affect students in higher education in the same way. So the solution to a typical one-room housing in Budapest has become an insurmountable problem in addition to managing educational costs, because it is very good that some people can still go to state school, but it is very rare to pay the education fee as a correspondent and, let's say, as a law student. I have to say, if this is the case with unrealisticly high housing costs, a lot of families find themselves in an impossible situation, or they can only achieve what, let's say, the parent has failed to obtain in the form of a diploma, but of course the child would like to provide it without further ado. Once again, I did not necessarily fear the largest institutions, but I see where the number of applicants is reduced by 1,500, 1600, 3000, and this process may remain so, as has been said earlier, and the amount of support is expected to be adapted in the long term to this phenomenon, which will make us even smaller, to make us even smaller. I would very much like to avoid this, and I would like to stress that this system should not be seen as a political issue. For our part, we have already put in place a complete housing programme that could improve the fate of students and higher education participants on the model of an Austrian rental system, even with a social point system. Of course, appropriate professional debates will have to be held on this subject in your agenda. At this point, I think we should look for an explanation of the reasons behind the amazing decline in the number of candidates, because I am sure that we will not be talking about a reason here, but I am also quite certain that this is a matter above the parties, which we should solve together. During the general debate, I have unfortunately not received reassuring answers to all the questions that have been said, but I have the hope that this will change here at the end of the detailed debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[19.10]]
u2020-05-18-262	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Secretary of State, would you like to reflect on what has been said? [[On the sign of József Bódis:]] Mr. Secretary of State Bodis. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-263	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive attitude that has been put forward in relation to a legislative package, and we have already been able to make use of it in the context of the detailed debate and during the process, since the higher education institution system is a very important key to Hungary's future. At a time when we are talking about a change of model program, we need to remember, on the one hand, what kind of history it had. The most serious precedent is the strategic material that has become known through the change of grades, and a number of steps have been taken in this respect, and the first major model change in terms of model change took place in the Corvinus University last year. With Corvinus University already living and working on this path, I must stress that current model changes differ from that. They differ so much from the fact that the Corvinus model is a private university model, the current ones do not follow that model, but in these universities there is a state involvement in the trainings of subpoenas, through the funding of public scholarship students and in many other respects. Another important milestone is the fact that one of our biggest problems in internationalisation is now being broken down, since the application of foreign university teachers in Hungary is now truly possible with an accreditation value. The three-legged funding will be introduced from 22nd and from 22nd, because this law has not yet been passed by Parliament, and the budget of 21th has already been submitted to the Parliament, so we could not plan it in the budget of 21st, but it is in the best interests of everyone that the whole higher education will operate as soon as possible, so from 22nd onwards in a different type of funding system. On the one hand, these three legs are about the educational part, which is roughly equivalent to today's funding, about infrastructure maintenance, and it's about a scientific normative, scientific support within which everything that is quality, everything that is performance, and all that can provide for the university existence that is the key to development. I believe that, when we go through the model change process, another level of autonomy will appear in the higher education system. If the state maintenance of universities was previously called nationalisation, then this is now a denationalisation step, so that the umbilical cord, which means funding, will remain and even strengthen. Thank you very much, Mr Crossman, for your thoughts and your suggestion. I hope that I will be able to answer every thought that has been raised. It is always a criticism of the lack of consultation or of its inadequacy. I don't know how I've been in a meeting when everyone leaves with the satisfaction that it was perfect, and we agreed on everything. Obviously, in a complicated case such as the change of model, it cannot be a complete agreement, but everyone agreed that the autonomy of universities should be taken to a different level. Everyone agreed that the institutions should be able to go further than they currently are, with a little more freedom from those constraints, from the Public Finance Act to the Law on Property and public procurement obligations. This new system brings this whole problem into a different, more manageable dimension. The consultations therefore did not fail, there was a lot of consultation, and of course the trade unions had their own choice of what they were involved in. Higher education wages are low. I think there are facts you can't argue with. It would be much better if we talked about other numbers and different dimensions, with a 27-percent wage increase over the past three years. We have prepared more material for the current situation in terms of further wage increases, but it is certain that if this law is passed, there will be a 15 percent wage increase from 21 to 22 and a 15 percent wage increase from 22 onwards. The withdrawal. It's never a pleasure for a secretary of state when there's withdrawal in his sector, but at the same time an unknown little biological factor has rewritten our lives. This virus created a situation, at least at the beginning, when we didn't know what the outcome would be. It was not a pleasure to see the extent of the withdrawal in this sector, but in this period we have already managed to bring back 8.6 out of the original 23 billion, and we hope that everything that has become a recovery package can bring our institutions back to them. That's why we still have a lot of work to do, but if there's one penny more we can get back to the sector, it's worth it. The University of Pécs was a specific number. Indeed, if I remember correctly, this was about 3.6 billion, which has been reduced to 1.9 to this day, and we are working to reduce it further. Thank you again for your thoughts, your problem management and your positive attitude. I would also like to thank Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat very much for the thoughts raised. Yes, this year there are slightly over 20,000 fewer candidates in higher education. Of course, this can be read more, there are a number of reasons, and I would prefer to link it to a higher level of graduation. This is the first time that high school graduation has appeared as an admission criterion. By the way, there was also the case for the secondary language exam, and it was resolved earlier that he had been removed from the conditionality. A higher level of graduation on one side of course requires a higher performance, and on the other side a kind of screening. I think that young people who are unable to show a higher level of education or to show such knowledge are not yet mature enough to be successful in the higher education system and to learn. [[19.20]] It is obvious that there are large differences between institutions, especially in rural areas. In fact, there are certain disciplines, including those that we would like to strengthen. We would like to correct this contradiction as far as possible by amending the rules for the replacement. It is not in the interest of the system, especially, but it is not in the government's interest to have fewer students in higher education, especially because more graduates are needed. The fact that for the first time in many years we have been able to take a step that has solved the problem of so - called stuck degrees is perhaps sufficient to support this thinking. If I expect the introduction of the Bologna system, this will affect 75,000 former students, and if I take the date of the introduction of the requirements, 1993, it will affect 120,000 of our fellow citizens. And we also included what was now a fear in the viral situation that the virus situation, the transformation of the educational program, the difficulties in examining the candidates who are currently carrying out the tests would be adversely affected, so it also represents a serious opportunity and concession for applicants in this period, I think, for the benefit of all of us. In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone for the positive thinking that followed this bill. Thank you for the constructive criticisms that are as important as the professional work that this has been done. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-264	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Marek József Foundation, the Marek József Foundation and the University of Veterinary Medicine, and the discussion of the proposal for a comprehensive amendment will follow. Government referral T/9921. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur for the committee, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-265	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 30 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the Marek József Foundation, the T/9921 on the asset allocation to the Marek József Foundation and the University of Veterinary Medicine. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's Hungarian higher education has reached the limit of its development, with which marked further development can no longer be guaranteed effectively in the current operational order. The aim of the upcoming proposals on universities, which I will be forced to present, is to provide these higher education institutions with greater individual room for manoeuvre and dynamic development in the same way as we did in the case of Corvinus University, although not to the same extent. The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that the University of Veterinary Medicine is the XX. Reclaim its international reputation at the beginning of the 20th century and be reclaimed as one of the world's leading veterinary training institutions. It is planned that by using the most modern research methods, unique animal health discoveries and developments in the world will be possible, which will also produce market values. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal on the House's table should be supported, because in order for higher education in Hungary to be able to gain a better position in the future, new partners need to be involved and a change of perspective. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak now. [[Sándor Farkas: No, thank you.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Bills on the continuation of the various universities in the form of foundations and on the implementation of their assets are now following each other. After this next act, after the Commission's proposals, I will, of course, not speak to all of them, I will comment on this first. I think that even though we have been to a plenary session, despite all the proposals before the committees, we still have not received the answers that have created our doubts. In relation to one of these proposals, I raised two issues in the general debate. The first question is, if the minister has appointed curators, then why are there no cities, like ability, some kind of way of life, some kind of professional attachment to the university. Why is it that, in fact, this proposal makes a former political leader's pleasure to know who these sacred institutions will be, the card partners, fellow hunters, childhood classmates, or who they will be? Nothing, but no professional principle is defined as to what, what qualities must be fulfilled by people who will operate these sacred institutions. Plus, as I said before, everyone in this country knows that curators can't just be called back by the founder. It's not like I thought he was gonna be a curator today, and then I just think he's not. In one case, it is possible to make a change if it is appointed for a limited period of time, but it is not included in the proposal. Therefore, there is not even the fundamental principle laid down by the legislator that, if the Minister is to be made a discretionary right for all eternity to be disponsed over these sacred institutions, at least then he is to be designated for a limited period of time, so that he can look at his work and see the talents, development of the university, and the increase in competitiveness that we no longer know how often we hear about this subject here in the House. Since there is no Hungarian court to register a callback for a curator, it is possible to put people who may not be able to manage these institutions for ever. When I raised this subject, Minister of State Balázs Orbán replied that the aim is to ensure that the operation of these institutions will not be determined by the political change at all, but by a continuity, that the people who will be appointed will be able to operate these universities effectively for many, many cycles beyond the parties. Yeah, but what if I don't? I'm sorry, is it just a political decision to make some kind of change? Is politics the only way to determine whether someone is being held in a position or not? Well, it could be a lack of skills, a lack of attitude, maybe he hasn't been to the board meetings in three years. Can't that happen? Maybe his health is going down so bad he can't do his job. If time has not been set and this proposal does not provide any guarantee, then it is precisely that a political regime is putting people at the head of these institutions who may not be fit for it. But here's the other question, much more serious than that. I don't understand how, by the way, in legislation, in this proposal, such a thing can come before this House. [[19.30]] What's happening? We're handing over assets to these foundations, so the state, the citizens, out of the common wealth of these assets. That would not be a problem if it were written that it could not be sold, it could only be used for its own purposes. Yes, the proposal stated that in the event that the foundation ceased to exist, the property would return to the state. But what fortune? Which fortune is going back? The one you don't even have anymore? And the fact that it is written in this proposal that the university may use the property it owns for the purposes specified in the transfer agreement, but may sell it, and if it has sold it, it can use the remaining part after the cost of the transfer for its core activity or is forced to use it. Well, if you sell the property, the building where the university works, how will it work? Then how are you going to serve your core business? Don't tell me this isn't about bailing out state property. Don't tell me that if you wanted to run a university as a foundation from now on, you wouldn't have been able to remain the property of the state, and the foundation is your trustee. I don't want anyone to tell me that this was the only way. What we are talking about here is that the current government wants to disposal over universities for a long time, so that perhaps it is not precisely education needs, it is not just development, it is not the rise in education for young people, but it is the goal of exercising a political influence in this area in the long term as well. If that wasn't the point, this wouldn't have been in here. What do you mean, they're gonna start a foundation from veterinary school or any university tomorrow, give him the money and sell it the day after tomorrow? Nothing, but there's no guarantee. What are you doing? It sells the billion-dollar, beautiful buildings, which, by the way, are in large part, except for very few buildings in the XIXth century. Our centuries of ancestors created us, so we should think of the ancestors who created them, that we wouldn't squander them, and then they would sell themselves for billions of dollars, and then they would rent a simple block building somewhere, a building with such a lightweight structure, and he would say: "Then there will be university education and goodbye!" And it's the thirtieth of the dogs in the state. Here, in this proposal, there is no guarantee that these assets will at some point remain in the interest of education. Whoever brought this into this house is against the Hungarian nation's community assets, against common sense, and against all the reasons why people even think that there is democracy, there is a rule of law. And most importantly, a political regime never creates relations that cannot be changed. The regime, whose fundamental purpose is this, plays to the survival of its own power. But, please, you know, everyone knows, at some point, everything will end for all of us, for whom, for whom later, and for the university world, this sacred cause is being used for the long term real estate manipulation of these universities, I simply cannot accept it. So, with all due respect, Mr State Secretary, in your previous proposal, you welcomed those supporting opposition support proposals, and, well, I can say, dear Secretary of State, that if anyone in this opposition environment votes for this, it will certainly take the breath away from the education of the future. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-268	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate, but there is no one to do so. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] No. As no one has made themselves known, the debate is closed. I'm going to ask Secretary Bodis if he'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-18-269	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much. I would like to say a sentence about the current, therefore, the Marek József Foundation. I think that the University of Veterinary Medicine is one of the best universities, the best university in Hungary, and its performance so far is also respectable, and with the change of model it can enter a different dimension, a certain development path that, in addition to the development of real estate infrastructure, represents a professional development that has a new quality in terms of the transformation of the entire currency. I will answer Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm's point anyway. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea from the open door to the Chamber: I am here, I hear it!]] So I'd react. I think that one of the key issues with regard to model-shifting institutions is what he raises and pushes. The real role of the board is that of the university's local government autonomy, so it doesn't matter how the board will stand. The compilation of the curatoriums is the result of many consultations. It is one thing that, legally, the Minister has the right to appoint the members of the Board of Governors, but basically before him has been preceded and preceded by a very serious consultation and consultation, has already preceded and now precedes appointments in this respect. There's been a misunderstanding about the property. The property isn't for the foundation, it's for the institution, the university itself. By the way, this is a serious guarantee for the university, and on the other hand, it can provide a security for the board of trustees, the Board of Foundations, because they cannot and do not have to deal with matters that are none of their business. I think, going back to the proposal and the bill, that in the life of the University of Veterinary Medicine, a new chapter begins, a positive chapter, a very beautiful vision for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-18-270	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation, the presentation of the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation and the University of Miskolc and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/9922. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee, please.
u2020-05-18-271	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 30 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation, the T/9922 on asset relief to the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation and the University of Miskolc. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 11 votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the bill before us, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University of Miskolc, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation as a maintenance member of the University, and on the tasks related to the establishment and provision of state assets. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is returning to the Chamber.]] The University of Miskolc considers the more efficient and effective operation of the scientific, innovation, art and training ecosystem, which develops the socio-economic environment in the Borsod region, and can also serve the demand for a medium- and long-term tertiary workforce in the steel industry and research related to the industry. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the adoption of the proposal that has been tabled.
u2020-05-18-272	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak now. [[On the sign of József Bódis:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Speakers will now take place on the agenda in a time-frame. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik, please. [[19.40]]
u2020-05-18-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since the methodology for the subject matter of the previous debate is similar to that of the present proposal, I would like to draw the State Secretary's attention to the fact that what you just said in the closing words is simply not so. This proposal gives the foundation the wealth. To the foundation! Not for the university. Would the university be a separate person from the foundation? It may be a budgetary body, but here they are talking about the fact that it comes out of the budget framework, whether it is a university or an independent legal person or a person who can acquire rights on his own behalf and take commitments, but the property is transferred to the foundation by the proposal. The other issue is that the foundation operates a university, but according to this proposal, the university itself as an organisation does not divorce the foundation. If that were the case, this would be included in this proposal. Therefore, after the property is provided for by the foundation, because it is owned by the foundation, it will be the curators who, under the law, are able to decide on the assets provided, so there can be no answer to the university. It's not written here. The other issue is that we are talking about wealth for the operation of the university, but it is also a fact that if curators decide to sell any of the free-of-charged assets in the course of the university's activities, they can do so as suggested. I wish to stress, Mr Secretary of State, that competitiveness in the world has nothing to do with the fact that infrastructure for the activities of a university is necessarily owned by its maintainer and founder. Education, whether you like it or not, is largely organised by the state in many countries around the world, in order to guarantee intellectual succession, and in many of those professions, the state provides for the training of professionals and the replacement of professionals, so only the private sector cannot be used on this issue. So, with great respect, I ask the Secretary of State to do so then, to resolve the contradictions, because I have read the exact text of the proposal and it goes against what he has responded with great respect to the previous proposal in his closet. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-274	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? I declare that no, the debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak. [[József Bódis: I do not wish, then at the end.]] Mr Secretary of State does not wish to speak, he does not wish to speak, but the only way I can appreciate this is that I am not giving the floor now, because this bill is being debated, so I will inform you that the decisions will take place tomorrow at the meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Moholy-Nagy University of Art Foundation, the Moholy-Nagy University of Art Foundation and the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, as well as the discussion of the summary amendment proposal, will follow. The government referral is T/9923. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, Mr László B. Nagy, as rapporteur, you may order, Congressman.
u2020-05-18-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 30 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts Foundation and the T/9923 on the asset allocation to Moholy-Nagy University of Art. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 9 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the bill before us, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, on the one hand, and the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the university. The aim of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts is to further strengthen as a centre of design and creative knowledge and to act as an institution capable of corporate, market cooperation in the future that can ensure the development and competitiveness of the Hungarian creative industry. By 2030, MOME intends to become Europe's dominant centre of progressive, creative education and culture, which is competitive with the world's cutting-edge design universities. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-05-18-276	Thank you very much. I have to ask, but I know the answer. [[For signal:]] So not now. For the record, it means that I have asked Mr Secretary of State that he wants to speak now. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Would anyone like to speak, Congresswoman and gentlemen? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting, and I'll inform you. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports on the Foundation for the University of Neumann, the Foundation for the University of John Neumann and the Commission reports on the application of assets to the University of Neumann, and the discussion of the draft amendment. Government referral T/9924. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Congressman László B. Nagy, please.
u2020-05-18-277	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 30 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the University of Neumann, the Foundation for John von Neumann and the T/9924. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the bill before us, the Government, in its decision on the new model of operation and maintenance of the University of Neumann, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Neumann and on the basis of the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University of Neumann. The Neumann János University of Kecskemét is also a regional knowledge centre and an innovation workshop, an integrated higher education institution with a complex role, which will continue to play a decisive role in the economic life and education of the city and the region. For these reasons, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-18-278	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, I must ask you, you wish to speak now. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State does not wish to speak. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for Sopron University, the Foundation for Sopron University and Sopron University, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/9925. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Congressman László B. Nagy, please.
u2020-05-18-279	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 30 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9925 on the Fund for Sopron University, the Foundation for Sopron University and the University of Sopron. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. [[19.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the bill before us, the Government, in its decision on the new operating and maintenance model of the University of Sopron, provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Foundation for the University of Sopron, which is to be established as a maintainer of the University of Sopron, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University of Sopron. The aim of the University of Sopron is to build on its strong traditions, especially in the field of forest engineering and wood engineering, as well as in the field of environmental and climate protection research, to become the leading knowledge centre in the Central and Eastern European region. In addition, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-280	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary? [[Joseph Bódis says no.]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[On the sign of József Bódis:]] There's good harmony between us, Mr. Secretary, but we have to keep the house rules. Mr. Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission reports on the Foundation for Széchenyi István University, the Foundation for Széchenyi István University and the Commission reports on the application of assets to Széchenyi István University and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal will follow. Government referral T/9926. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Congressman László B. Nagy, committee rapporteur, please.
u2020-05-18-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is the last time I'm gonna speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for Széchenyi István University, the Széchenyi István University Foundation and the T/9926. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 against and 1 abstention. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of the bill before us, the Government in its decision on the new model of operation and maintenance of Széchenyi István University provided for tasks related to the establishment of the Széchenyi István University Foundation as a maintainer of the University and on the tasks related to the provision of state assets for the establishment and operation of the University. Széchenyi István University of Győr aims to develop an entrepreneurial institution that has an appropriate research, development, infrastructure and service portfolio for the creation of a global economic ecosystem, for the sustainable development of the technical and technological standards and innovation culture of the Western-Transdanubian automotive industry, with local enterprises and cooperation from the university, while the university performs its social vocation as a multidisciplinary training centre. After all, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-18-282	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to speak now? [[Joseph Bódis says no.]] No. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Would anyone like to speak, Honourable Parliament? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] Yes, please. Mr. Secretary of State Bodis.
u2020-05-18-283	Mr President, Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It was originally my intention to speak at the very end of each institutional foundation, only to address it. I'm always embarrassed when you have to argue with a lawyer as a doctor about legal matters. I wouldn't dare do that. I'd rather do it my way. In my interpretation, the bill is about the wealth being given to universities. The foundations, of course, have the wealth of the 600 million fortunes they're created with. Then, what their fate will be later, depends on many things, their activity and other activities. Another question about the callback of the curators was unsolved. The articles of association may provide for the recall of the curators. If not, the Board and the Supervisory Board may decide jointly to recall the curator. I believe that these regulations are a sufficient guarantee, both in terms of the functioning of the Curatoriums and in terms of the security of universities. At a time when the Parliament will decide on the Nftv. amendment on the change of model, then it will decide on the foundations of Miskolci, Moholy-Nagy, John von Neumann, Sopron University, Széchenyi István University and the University of Veterinary Medicine, it will decide on a serious issue that will raise the autonomy of these universities to a different level, it will decide on a matter that will raise the operating conditions of these institutions into a different dimension, and an opportunity that will be able to enforce the expectations of the socio-economic medium in respect of these institutions much more directly. Knowledge that has already been accumulated in these institutions, or is newly created, will directly help the everyday and future life of an environment that is decisive both for the institution and for the social context. I would also like to thank you once again for the work and activity of all those who have made it possible for us to come this far with these legislative proposals, and I trust that in the final vote, in the final vote, you can support everything that has appeared in these legislative proposals in substance and with regard to the mission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-18-284	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the organisation of land ownership and the amendment of certain land laws under the land use rights of the cooperative and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/9932. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Congressman Sándor Fazekas, the rapporteur of the committee, said so. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-18-285	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9932 on the settlement of land ownership and the modification of certain land-related laws under the land-use rights of the cooperative. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 8 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table aims to eliminate a pregnant legacy that still lives with us. This heavy agricultural policy legacy is an institution of undivided common property, which is essentially a community of owners, in which no members who are familiar with each other, who do not have family ties, are entitled to use their ownership without violating the rights of the others and their legitimate interests. [[20.00]] In practice, this is a highly disadvantaged construction. The share of property is known to everyone, but specifically the size and location of the plot is not indicated. Undivided joint ownership cannot invest, cannot use the areas as collateral for bank credit. Its undivided common system does not match EU legal standards, and it also represents a kind of independent development of law in Hungarian law. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft before us eliminates land with an unoccupied ownership status. The State acquires ownership of land under the land use right of the cooperative and has not yet been privately owned, with the adequate remuneration of the relevant share owners of HUF 50,000 per gold crown. The draft also abolishes the right of operator, which has been only registered in real estate, but which has not existed in substantive legislation for nearly 20 years. With the adoption of the bill, it will also be possible to make more efficient use of the land covered by the National Fund of Earth. It is also important to mention the wooding and forestry programme, which can be further expanded in areas declared unnecessary for defence purposes. This helps to meet climate targets, and also increases the carbon capture capacity of our forests. It is a welcome proposal that the amendment of the law in relation to the Hungarian village programme expands the free municipal ownership compared to the current titles. It is a positive consequence of the proposal that the property of the National Land Fund would be extended by the land which is permanently defined as a plant house and which is registered as such in the real estate register. This means that the number of greenhouses, the share of greenhouse crops may increase in the future, thus improving the efficiency of our agriculture, increasing emissions and creating a significant number of new jobs in agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is part of a kind of national estate arrangement, which proposes to settle the ownership of land under the land use rights of the cooperative and to abolish management rights, as well as to amend laws that can represent a significant part of the Hungarian farming community by helping them to make a positive change in their day-to-day work. On the basis of the reasons already set out, the proposal should be supported, please support it with your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Sándor Wolf applauds.]]
u2020-05-18-286	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State Wolf, if you'd like to speak now. [[Sándor Farkas: Maybe at the end!]] In the end, say the Secretary of State. I would like to inform you that the designated Agriculture Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have representatives' speeches. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one wished to speak, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, is there anything you'd like to say right now? Here you go.
u2020-05-18-287	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-18-288	That's right. So by all means, don't say anything, say something. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-289	Yeah. I'd like to be more specific. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their comments and their comments in the general debate, and then their attitude and support in the Commission's work. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas applauds.]]
u2020-05-18-290	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I declare that B/10305 has been submitted to the Economic Commission and the Economic Competition Authority for its activities in 2019 and on the experience of the application of the Competition Act in relation to the application of the purity and freedom of competition. B/10504. Mr Róbert Zsigó, Fidesz, Member of the Council indicated that his ballot counting machine was not working, so his vote was added to the number of votes cast when the result was published. However, in view of the fact that, when the number of votes cast was recorded, the system also recorded the mechanical vote of the representative, the vote cast in question is therefore not taken into account when determining the result. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Please leave the room in accordance with the information provided by the Director General, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Z. Mr. Dániel Kárpát, representative of Jobbik: He said that he had spoken after the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-291	Mr President, Dear House, The representatives of Jobbik bring the voice of the bled-out opposition authorities to the Hungarian Parliament, as this week the House is preparing to negotiate a proposal under which the industrial tax that is typically due to the opposition authorities will now be paid to county leaders in the future. These county leaders are the only genre on the Hungarian political palette, which have a purely fidesz majority, in essence, in all the counties concerned. I would also like to stress that earlier the Government of Hungary spoke about public burdens in relation to the disease control. At this public burden, he kicked the engine by demanding half the support of the parties, and we said that we were ahead of him, but we didn't see this public burden coming either in the case of multinational companies or in the case of banks. Today, we have had a brief chat or debate, but there was no longer an opportunity to explain what we were thinking when these people were excluded from the burden of public transport. In the case of multi-company companies, it is true that untaxed profits are being made from Hungary in the order of a thousand billion. Now they want to include them in the epidemiological protection fund with a few ten billion items in the form of a separate tax, from which a special tax can still be avoided by tricky market methods, portfolio diversification and other ways, and a number of Hungarian companies pay for it. So let us not think that only multinational companies with foreign backgrounds pay this type of special tax. What really knocked out the collateral was the banking system, we could say it was a separate tax, but we are correct to say that the banking system was supported. It is no wonder from a banking government that signed a pact with the EBRD in 2015, under which neither the creditors nor the former currency holders are willing to help with new methods and not undertake to impose any burden on the banking system towards public burdens. Although a few ten billion individual taxes have been levied, this can be written down in full by the banks concerned over the next five years. On the other hand, Hungary's Government, although not directly, offered a thousand billion-dollar credit line through the arms of the Hungarian National Bank. Here he provided a 4-percent grip. So it's worth 40 billion dollars of direct support if you just look at what's going on in the different accounts. It is worth considering what happens to the municipalities if the burden of public transport is not achieved so much in the case of bankers and managers of multi-company companies. Now there are a lot of question marks around that the concept of a special economic zone, which would take away business tax, applies to cities with county rights, or not. Our well-trained lawyers and codificators say that since they have not been removed from the law and are not specifically indicated, it cannot be claimed that this provision does not apply to these cities. Today, Gergely Gulyás, as a lawyer, was confused with the fact that if something was not included in the exceptions, it would be placed under pressure in the dimension of an opposition representative. We must, however, take it as a yes, also burden cities with county rights until we see a guarantee between the laws to the contrary. [[20.10]] He's a veterinary horse for everything. We know that after the investments of the multi-company company that appeared here, we are talking about the city of opposition, which will now reach the Fidesz-led county municipality. Although the entire population protested against the expansion of the Göd, the expansion of the investment, and a good part of it is protesting now, they are simply reaching over their heads, overwriting the results of the municipal elections, overwriting the most fundamental expectations of democracy. What did the people of Göd face? This may explain what the Government of Hungary is now raping the results of the elections over whom people can expect nationwide. They couldn't tell us how many forests to cut off in their territory. It was possible to drag the factory fence to the edge of the residential area without leaving any say to the population. They didn't have the say to move hundreds of Ukrainian and Asian migrant workers in with them practically life-style, and it's very strange for a government that advertises on its billboards that it doesn't allow Hungary's ethnic composition, living together and changing the rest. I'd add you're right, but that's the way it should be done. They couldn't even get there on the spot, Göd, to confront the population in a normal residential forum with those investments and the service of their interests, the Government of Hungary, and find some sort of solution. But it is certain that in this form, the Jobbik will not allow the override of democracy and election results. We will struggle to stop this madness at this stage and to the last of our means, and the Government of Hungary will escape from it, just as it was before to cut down the rights of local governments when it withdrew. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-18-292	Thank you very much. Mr Félix Farkas applied for a speech after the agenda with the title 'Dangerous'. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-293	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech after the agenda by thanking the government, the ministries, all members of the operational tribe, especially those working in health care and everyone who has helped and helped those in need in this critical situation. I would point out that Hungary and the Hungarian government will not abandon anyone in the event of an emergency. We feel that the Hungarian government is doing everything in its work to ensure that the Roma in Hungary receive all economic help to ensure that their communities live safely, that their members remain healthy, and that children can participate in education. The Fidesz-KDNP Group in the European Parliament also referred to this in its communication on the occasion of the International Roma Day on 8 April. Therefore, I must say with due emphasis that the Roma have not been left by the government on the side of the road. This is also the case in the field of digital education, even if I mention only the schools. In several of my speeches, I praised the dreamers of the school network operating in Hungary, because the schools are designed to help students living in difficult social conditions with extracurricular occupations. Group and individual classes reduce early school leaving, help prepare for school and successfully complete school studies for children of families with difficult fate. As we know, for the Roma, learning is the only point of breakout. In order to ensure the continued smooth functioning of schools operating as part of the domestic supply system from 2019, the Ministry of the Interior acted immediately following the publication of the 40-2020 Government Decree on the announcement of an emergency. Based on the information requested by DG Social Chances, the Deputy State Secretary-General Katalin Langerné Victor immediately assessed what was needed in the schools. Of the 185 working schools, 162 schools keep in touch with all families, 92 percent of the schools reach more than 80 percent of the families of the students there. 66 percent of the schools also provide food in some form for students at school. And in the case of schools that don't keep in touch with families online, they do personal care every day. In order to eliminate the lack of digital tools, the Ministry of the Interior has also announced a developmental tender with the title "Development of the conditions for providers operating and receiving school services." The budget for the development proposal is 340 million 700 thousand forints. Schools may apply for grants for IT tools or other instruments depending on the number of children provided. The grant awarded in the tender may also be used to provide a snack. In addition, the Directorate-General for Social Chances, under the leadership of Attila Stojka, the Director-General, continues to travel around the territory, providing materials and sewing machines for masks, as well as agricultural equipment, tools and seeds for agricultural work, thus helping the Roma living in difficult situations to thrive. At the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, I said that, unfortunately, the situation of Gypsy in Hungary is somewhat specific for the protection of the Crown Virus. Just like before the emergency comes out, I'm working a lot in the field right now, and I see a lot of things. It is not a question of the need to pay more attention to Roma and non-Roma disadvantaged families living in poor conditions who live in rural areas under modest conditions, with three or four generations in one household in some places. I am pleased that the Hungarian government, as it does for all Hungarian people, is also giving us a helping hand for Roma people. I believe that the government measures taken quickly and in due time have opened our eyes to each of us. We too must act responsibly at every moment to protect ourselves, our children, our elders. Instead of creating a mood, calmness, patience, unity and solidarity are needed. That's what I asked my fellow Roma countrymen to do. Take care. Let's take care of each other. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-294	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. After the agenda, the leader of the LMP group, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, spoke with the title of our city, Pécs 6. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am talking again about my city, Pécs, in my post- Agenda speech, but still today in a context that has a national lesson and national significance. We know that it is a huge challenge for municipalities, cities, to prepare for the 21st century. One of the most serious challenges of the century, climate change and various forms of environmental destruction, which are already a direct challenge for virtually all citizens of all settlements. We know that for 13 years, the European Environment Agency has announced the title "Green Capital of Europe" every year. This has been the case in recent years: in 2019 Oslo will be the green capital of Europe, this year, in 2020 Lisbon and in 2021 Lahti will be the green capital of Europe. My city, Pécs, has applied three times to win this honour, unfortunately in recent weeks it has turned out that for the third time it has failed. It is very important to say that it is not the title in itself that is interesting, it is the title that is important, but that cities capable of creating an approach, the environment and a healthy environment can be rewarded, which can set an example for other settlements, how to provide a viable and healthy environment for citizens living in those cities. That the city of Pécs had failed to apply for the third time, there are several reasons for this: on the one hand, obviously, the various measures taken or insufficient by the local administration, the then pro-government administration, and on the other hand, very serious objective restrictive factors for which Parliament or the government must take action. I draw attention to these important factors and important measures. In the case of the city of Pécs, the so-called biomass fire was carried out, and in itself it would be worth opening a debate on how much green energy, for example, could be considered to be the combustion of forests under large power plant conditions. The LMP's very strong position is that it cannot, of course, be considered as green energy, and therefore it is absolutely necessary to change the legal environment and legislation in this regard. But we also have to say that in such cases, when there is a district heating service with biomass fire, unfortunately in the current legislative environment, the various development, insulation and energy efficiency projects are also excluded from the relevant district heating apartments, in particular, they are left out of the home heat programme. Here, too, a legislative amendment could help to address this situation. This can be quite clear to everyone that the window change, the insulation of the building is definitely a green investment, a green maintenance that reduces energy consumption and is certainly forward-looking. By the way, during one of the parliamentary debates, Mr Kaderjak, State Secretary, even promised to deal with this situation, this anomaly. I would like to briefly refer to the state of the Karolina research. We know that the elimination of the traces of the former mining activity is moving very slowly, and the Pécs are constantly facing the fact that the original deadline for completion has been extended for long and long years. [[20.20]] The work is progressing slowly, and this could pose a continuous environmental risk and air pollution for the Pécs, which obviously has quite terrible and inaccessible consequences. More effective government action is also needed here. We have discussed several times in various debates that, despite the will of Pécs and the will of the people in Pécs and the people in the region, the government intends to implement a nuclear cemetery six kilometres from the city's western borders. Here, the promise made by the Prime Minister five years ago was still lacking that such a nuclear project, a nuclear object, would not be possible until the Pécs and the people in the region contributed to it. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has not yet fulfilled his promise, and the search for a possible site for the nuclear cemetery continues to run smoothly. Similarly, the plans to restart the once discontinued uranium mining activity are worrying. Those who know the area of Pécs know exactly what brutal pollution uranium mining has caused. In particular, it caused devastation that could never be recovered, and so far it has cost Hungarian taxpayers about HUF 30 billion because of this activity, the need to recultivate afterwards, and this is a process that can never be completed. Therefore, very effective, clear and hard decisions should be taken so that it can never happen again, so that what some people are planning to do now is not to happen again in the inhabited areas of the city. There are environmental problems and challenges that affect Pécs, and they also affect many other major cities, and it is very, very important that it is time for the government to recognise its obligation to do so in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. One of the major challenges of the 20th century, with regard to its problem system, cities should be given the opportunity to create an environment for their citizens that can in any case ensure a healthy living living environment. We must make immediate decisions in this regard. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-05-18-296	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, will be followed by:, Ami after 77 days she missed out on the title. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A month and a half ago, when the emergency was announced and I started volunteering, I reached out to several families who did need help. I got to those segregations where Roma kids ran for a loaf of bread because they were hungry. Last week, when I spoke here in Parliament about people still being left on the side of the road, that's when I asked Félix Farkas a Roma minority advocate to give his opinion. [[To Felix the Wolf:]] This indicated that after 77 days you missed it, because you spoke here in the Hungarian Parliament after 2 March 2020. I'm very happy for you, because you keep saying, better late than never. You started your speech by thanking healthcare workers, thanking healthcare workers, thanking those who work on the front line. But thanking the MEPs for publishing a statement that they are helping everyone, I think that a little cynicism and a smile on our faces, because we do not need a communication. As you have said, you are walking the settlements, you see what happens, how, under what conditions families live in many, up to 10-20 people on a few square meters. I saw it, too. I can see that, yes, we need help here. But to say that a statement will help you do that is a huge blama. I'm sorry about that expression. We need real, tangible help. You have rightly brought up that the schooling program, education, is the primary way out of segregation. I couldn't agree more. By winning an application for IT tools, I agree. But I've also been to families where there's not even an Internet, but there's no electricity, there's no proper conditions to use IT equipment at home. Yes, the way the schools work is to go to the children, and they may have provided these conditions so that they can use these IT equipment there. But there is a need for normal catching-up programs in Hungary. You can throw hundreds of millions and billions at me, but those kids, those families, they really need a lot of help. You ended your comment by saying that there is no need for a mood. No one wants to make the mood. There is only one aspect here, at least in front of my eyes, that children who begged me to bring them books and pencils two weeks ago, because they don't have them, then the heart of a person is broken, and because we have come to the point that these parents have also lost their casual job, which can even give them hope to survive everyday life. When they're begging for bread and fries, and I'm gonna give them a strudel, because we're gonna bring them that, we should think about how to help them. What I have missed very much from your speech is that it did not mention the situation of Roma national authorities, how vulnerable they are. There are very few operating frameworks from which they can farm, very few resources they provide, not to mention withdrawal from national governments, because we see the goal of withdrawal from everywhere. Obviously, this will also affect Roma minority self-governments. Yes, but people in their settlement expect help from mayors of settlements and representatives. Only if there's no money there, they can't help you. This will ring at a level that I have already said in my previous speeches. It's gonna end very, very bad. We need help. I very much hope that you will continue to do everything in your power to help our fellow Roma countrymen find their place. In this, I ask you to do everything you can, to move all your contacts, because people who live in these segregations want real, tangible non-communication help. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-05-18-298	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Brenner Koloman, the representative of Jobbik, will now follow: It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-299	Herr Präsident! Danke schön. Händeweg vom Geld der Nationalitäten! As a representative of the German government for 22 years, I was also a representative of the German Government of Sopron until 2011, and I was very surprised to hear that the Fidesz government was transferring nearly HUF 1 billion, or nearly one third of the funding for nationalities. The government has decided to withdraw cultural and camping subsidies from nationalities and to redeploy them, mainly for church renovations. The justification for this has been quite short, and not that Jobbik as a national ethnic party has a big problem with church renovations, but let us see that when, according to the usual method, the Fidesz MEPs tell us in advance how much they have won in the tenders, because this is what they do, these national governments and cultural groups, counting on these a few hundred thousand forints, which are already organized in small settlements by the majority of nationalities in Hungary, do not give God, seizes certain events, then they are subsequently withdrawn, and refer to the fact that this is more necessary in other places, in the opinion of the People's Party Jobbik. I mean, let's face it, here in this Parliament, it has not been a week since Secretary Soltés praised the national policy of the Fidesz government in a dim voice. This is not the way a responsible national government acts with people who, by sacrificing their free time, do not spare time and energy to organise their cultural life for domestic nationalities. Moreover, it is very difficult to see now that the relaxations have started, and it is possible to have day-care camps, why these funds have been taken away, because much of the year is still ahead, and a significant part of these events is likely to be held in some form. I find it difficult to see, let's say, the German ethnic harvest parade in Sopron is a viral problem in the current state. So we stated, in a joint statement, that we condemn this step on behalf of the EPP Jobbik, the youngest member of the European Committee of the Regions, with Patrik Schwarcz-Kiefer, our municipal representative from Baranya County. [[20.30]] After all, while we are fighting for the extra rights of Hungarians across the border, the Fidesz government is withdrawing a third of the support of nationalities at home. That's not wise on the 100th anniversary of Trianon. I think we can all see that this is not the one billion forints that will solve our defense against the virus epidemic. Dear House, The Fidesz government has shown that it supports only those municipalities that have Fidesz leadership. First, very serious resources were withdrawn from the municipalities, and now Zsolt Semjén's proposal puts the point on i, where it turns out that, moreover, more tax resources will be taken away as a priority economic zone from opposition-led municipalities with higher value investments. However, if we look at, let's say, the municipality of Sopron, we see that they are not very much included in this list, so the Sopron people have chosen Fidesz city leadership in vain, which has not benefited too much so far, but the damage is that there is an incompetent mayor who maintains investment in meaningless megaloman, and instead wants to finance the 600 million withdrawal from operating expenses by Mayor Farkas Ciproán. On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, we are sending a message to Mayor Ciproán Farkas and Congressman Attila Barcza that we should not be posting on Facebook, but that the Sopron region and the people of Sopron should have been represented against their own Fidesz government, so that they would not withdraw money from the municipalities, because there is a fight against the virus. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-300	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Kálló, the representative of Jobbik, will now come:, Together for the Ironworks! It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-301	Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Man plans, God finishes keeping the old proverb. Personally, I was not happy either that in the first months of my Membership there was a serious health and economic crisis, but unfortunately, this is the way it turned out, which is the situation for all of us. The epidemic has made us all more humble, taught us what is really important, what is real, and who are those we can really count on. The danger has not yet passed, and we can even say that it is only now economically difficult. In recent years, I have repeatedly spoken to the largest employer in my district, the Danube Iron Works. It is not only one of the largest employers of the district and Fejér county, but Hungary's largest metallurgical and mechanical complex, which is now experiencing serious difficulties due to the effects of the global economy, endangering the livelihood of hundreds, if not thousands of people. I am talking about jobs, quality of life, the livelihoods of families, the lives of people who have worked honestly, conscientiously and honestly, yet their jobs are at risk, thus making them live. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the plague has taught us humility. The entire Parliament should or should have learned this lesson in the last few months, so when I ask the Ironworks for help, remember this lesson. That is what I have confessed, and I now confess: there is no Fidesz and opposition patient, and there is no Fidesz and opposition worker; there are sick, unemployed, anxious workers who need us. I'm talking about Hungarians whose jobs are in danger in my area. I therefore ask you, with all due respect, to do everything together to ensure that the Danubeferr has not only a long past, but a predictable and prosperous future, despite the current difficulties. With all due respect, let's show an unprecedented cooperation, put aside our differences in party policy, and save the ironworks jobs. I will look for opportunities with patience, but decisively, if necessary, here, speaking; if necessary, lobbying at the negotiating tables; if necessary, submitting a series of papers to ensure the productivity of the largest companies in the region, despite the expected crisis. Let us support each other in this work, save the iron jobs if necessary. Thank you very much. I'll remain a servant of my district. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-18-302	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, the representative of DK is following:. Who bankrupted the municipalities? Title II. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-303	Mr President, Fellow Members! Obviously, in the Fidesz fraction or in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, there is a so-called phrase base, called communication panel, which last week, instead of using specific professional responses, points back to the communication panel for the last eight years, and says that we have redeemed the government's debt by 1300 billion, and on the basis of this 1300 billion, this site should not say anything. They are not talking about it, and it is very quiet that these debts have actually already been implemented in the municipalities. It is the 194 municipalities with whom this consolidation was carried out. This total consolidation is 89 percent, we are talking about 194 municipalities, while 3173 municipalities operate in Hungary according to the Statistical Office. I think, after consolidation has taken place, there is also a strong silence from a background. It is said that activists were running the municipalities before the election campaign, right, that the then government was struggling with the financial crisis of the world in 2008 to take out loans, and then we will settle them, without purpose, from the banks. Bond issues have been made, namely foreign exchange bond issues. That's what happened in '97. It is true that 152 HUF was then the Swiss franc loan, the foreign exchange loan, 152, and in incredible quantities believed by the municipalities. Obviously, I was a mayor on the other side at the time, as a practicing mayor, I wasn't organized to issue a bond. Then came this company Quaestor, which fell, and half of Győr was killed. So I have to say that, in the consolidation of 1,300 billion, it is safe to say that those who encouraged me had a moral obligation to those who were set up to consolidate it. But they also knew that they were going to pull it in, and in several cases, and even before me, there have been certain faces here, the ones with which they have recovered this 1,300 billion, if we add it up. So, basically, it was very cleverly organized. However, as a reminder, I would like to mention a few things from this phrase base, because these are extremely tough cases, and here in the afternoon my fellow Member, Fidesz, said that 60 percent of the vehicle tax base was the State's before. Yeah, since the Fidesz government. It's been 20 years since the car tax, but only after 2010, during the period of consolidation, 60% was taken first, and now 40 percent, that is 100 percent. At a local government of the size, the car tax would now be 700 million forints, where I could serve Budapest XV. in my district, now my constituency. So I think it's starting to take back money of an incredible size, and in a very devious way. Therefore, the price of consolidation was also paid by the municipalities with the exception that not only the 194 large bond issuers but also the 3173 municipalities paid. That's a good way to do it. [[20.40]] They threw it away beautifully, and we're paying. A hundred percent of the personal income tax was withdrawn. It's gone, no personal income tax. It's the same place, but there's no personal income tax in the future for the benefit of the settlements, nothing. So I think that this type of tricks, like agreeing on a minimum wage with someone, or a guaranteed minimum wage, say, this year, 8 percent... and the minimum wage. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Normically, they won't give you a single penny. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just wanted to tell you that they took back that 1300 billion forint from us. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-304	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK will be following:. But what is going on? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-305	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, It may seem that the question put in the title is poetic, since there is no longer a man in Hungary who does not know what it is that is becoming more and more powerful on the leader of the party state and government. For more and more people can experience it, we can experience it from close to the body, we can feel the consequences of all of this on our skin, on our lives, and we face the roaring difference between lying propaganda and the real world. What is sad is that they now know Europe, and not only Europe, but also worldwide, and only to avoid misunderstandings: Hungary's situation is now dealt with by the European leader on the right, the Christian Democratic mainstream policy. Yeah, if we're gonna say it, I have to say, I'd like to talk about the stealth dictatorship. The system that the Fidesz government and its people have been building for ten years, and the leader of which is on an unknowing and usual path of dictators, from the image of the people's leader built up by the propagandaists to the statutory fall. What the representatives of the State Party and the Fidesz-KDNP call an illiberate state in a self-discovering way, and I must note here that it is the concept itself, which, despite all the efforts of its users, betrays the lewdness of their system. Otherwise, Fareed Zakaria used the concept for the first time in an article published in 1997, and since then everyone has used it, since then we have known that illiberalism is a government system in which even free elections could be held, but because of the lack of civil liberties, the power of the people is severely limited. Of course, the question arises, as has been so many times in the last century with similar systems: why do the leaders of current power think that it is worth getting into the same dirt again? Why should they go the same way as all the authoritarian leaders have done many times in history, and what dictators have been going through, and which has led in one direction, to a dump in history? And why does the Fidesz-KDNP now believe that this path will now be viable, that it can be dragged, investigated, that opposition politicians can be imprisoned simply because they are opposition politicians? We can ask ourselves and each other what's going on here under the cover of the plague. What's going on here, having a search warrant in the morning, booking computers, pushing me into police cars, bullying people, humiliating people just because they're forming an unattractive opinion on social networks for the Prime Minister and for power? Did we really get here? ! Are you trying to silence people, politicians, just because they dare to criticize the existing illiberal power? Is that where we're at? ! Even in the midst of the social economic crisis, hundreds of billions are spent on false propaganda, while hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people remain without work, income or real state aid? And remember: about the Guinness Recorder Ripper, the only gas mechanic in the world that has become a billion dollars in ten years, the former MEP of the Prime Minister's family, György Schöpflin, says the following, and I quote that Mészáros is not a direct employee of the state, but still conducts the state's economic policy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Is that what we're talking about? ! While the world is fighting the epidemic, do the government's people seem to be taking over private companies long-awaited by the government, quickly decapitating its management and putting the company in an inoperable position? In the day of distress caused by the plague, the last of democracy and otherwise I must add to it its shaky bastions, the authorities are beginning to taste the power? For many municipalities, we know very well that the government is drawing tax revenues that can be considered as the last source of income. My fellow Members spoke of similar things not so long ago, but we now have the new unscrupulous bill, which, behind the cover of the creation of special economic zones, clearly gives the government another weapon to destroy, regulate and punish opposition settlements. Well, what's going on? ! And now allow me to answer the question I asked myself, which may have been poetic. So far, the stealth dictatorship is crossing more and more red lines. That's what's going on! What's going on is that Orbán's course has already openly stepped on the institution of democracy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This isn't gonna end well. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-18-306	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the representative of Jobbik, is following:, On this face there is something so kind and naughty that even the Communists can't fool her with its title. Here you go.
u2020-05-18-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 1978, when the Polish Bishop Karol Vojtyla II. He was elected Pope John Paul, the great miracle was that he was elected a Pole; he was elected from Eastern Europe, from the Socialist bloc. That must have caused quite an amazing scare all over the eastern block. The party leaders ran to each other to see what would happen now. György Snell, the parish priest of the time, noted this: "This face has something so kind and naughty that even the Communists can't fool it. And there was a lot of truth in that. It was a great job for the socialist countries to take off the robes of dictatorship, and they went on the path of democracy with this papal urge: "Don't be afraid! Open and even open the gates to Christ! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. ANNEX II Pope John Paul was born today a hundred years ago in Wadovice, Poland. After him, XVI. On May 1, 2011, Pope Benedict made him happy, and on Sunday, April 27, 2014 he made him holy to one of the predecessors of Pope Francis, XXIII. Pope John. Karol Vojtyla was consecrated as a priest on 1 November 1946, and the path that led to the papacy is love, patience, understanding and infinitely strong faith. [[20.50]] ANNEX II Pope John Paul is still called the pope of young people for a reason. He made a lot of gestures to them, and he understood himself in a fascinating way with the future generation. He made music, sang, skied, played all kinds of sports, almost until the disease became violent, lived an active life we had never seen before from Pope. On 31 March 2005, he had a fever due to an infection, but at his request he was not taken to the hospital because he wanted to die in the Vatican. Perhaps more people here remember, on April 1st, his condition deteriorated, he lost consciousness around 5:00 p.m., and from then on on April 2, 2005, for 21 hours, 37 minutes, the world was directing that time, the expectation, the infinite long death that Pope John Paul had to suffer until he returned to his Creator. I've been looking for you, and now you've come to me. Thank you all. .. this was II. The last sentence of Pope John Paul to young people. He let the young ones go by saying: "I see in you the messengers of the dawn. Take your life into your own hands and make it into a real personal masterpiece. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Its name is the first Youth Summit, an event that takes place year after year, and millions of young people on all continents gather in one place to live their faith with enthusiasm. He visited Hungary twice, once in 1991 and once in 1996. He was welcomed by love, joy, enthusiasm, liberation, everywhere in the world he went. But he still has a connection to II. Pope John Paul to Hungary, a Hungarian hero, because not only did Pope John Paul leave us in the spring of 2005, but Gergely Pongráz also went to his Creator 15 years ago today. Gergely Pongrátz, the hero of 56, was first a part of the Corvin public insurgents, then, from November 1, 1956, the commander-in-chief of the rebels, the founding father of Jobbik, the owner of the slot flag, who gave us, Jobbik, the flag to continue their journey, which they began in 1956. So tonight I was able to remember two wonderful people, the birth of one, the death of the other, and I wish all of us that we were surrounded by such wonderful people and show us the way. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-18-308	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
