u2020-11-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 22nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I have a sad duty to fulfil by announcing that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Zoltán Szokolay obtained his mandate in the first free parliamentary elections, the 1st constituency of Békés County in the colours of the MDF, and until 1992 he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament. Under his mandate, he served as Vice-President of the National Security Committee. Besides his political career, he worked as a writer, poet and literary translator, and his work was rewarded with numerous professional awards. He died in 64 years of his life. In 1994, János Olasz acquired his mandate as a candidate of the MSZP in the 13th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, and until 1998 he was a member of the Parliament. Under his mandate, he assisted the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religion. In addition to his political and public activities, he worked as a teacher, school principal and municipal representative in his narrower home. He passed away 83 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay a silent tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The government, although this is not unusual, is now in the midst of the greatest problems in the epidemic situation, when cooperation is needed, in the crossfire of attacks by the Hungarian left and criticisms from abroad. This is true for the control of the epidemic, for the protection of the economy, for the protection of families, children and the elderly, as well as for the values on which the decisions are based. Many do not shy away from creating insecurity in people or even spreading false news by attacking health care workers or employment protection measures. In this situation, it would be expected that if someone can't help, they don't want to, at least don't hurt. Thank the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses for their support in the second wave of the epidemic. Dear Parliament, In recent days, false statements and accusations have been made in connection with the financing of public finances. This is an important issue and it is therefore necessary to be clear. However, before I record the facts, it is false to hear these criticisms from those who have bankrupted the country by 2010, who have also increased the public debt ratio during a favourable period, and who, even in pre-crisis times, have governed with a budget deficit of 6-8 percent. It was the civilian government, on the other hand, that over the last ten years, has forced public debt down, converted to disciplined and consistent fiscal management, reduced the country's exposure, and put the country's finances in order. Therefore, as Minister of Finance, I wish to inform the Parliament that Hungary's funding is guaranteed not only for this year, but also for the coming years. In other words, there is sufficient resources available to operate the country, to control the epidemic, to finance programmes for the re-launching of the economy. Even if the European Commission continues to deal not with the solution to the economic crisis, but with political debates, and thus the payments of EU crisis management resources are still delayed. The government was also judged in the autumn issue of foreign exchange bonds. I would like to stress that this is the government that has reduced the foreign exchange ratio of government debt from 50 per cent to 20 per cent and intends to keep it below this level. Only one and a half billion dollars of debt have been repaid this year without using external resources to do so. With the issue of foreign exchange bonds of EUR 2.5 billion in November, we have achieved that no new foreign exchange resources are needed by early 2023. At the same time, in view of the uncertain period ahead of us, it is right and necessary to strengthen the country's reserves. Mr President, Dear House, In fact, the crisis caused by the epidemic is also adversely affecting the Hungarian economy: this year we calculate a 6.4 percent decline. The consequences of this are also reflected in public finances: we expect revenue losses of HUF 1700 billion. On the other hand, spending is increasing, jobs are being protected, protective equipment is being bought, investments are being made, wage increases are being made, including in health care. The budget deficit could be around 9 percent this year. At the same time, it is important to see the details. This year's third quarter's performance exceeded 11,3% in the previous quarter. This shows that if there is no need for restrictive measures, if the dampening forces disappear from economic processes, the Hungarian economy will be able to recover quickly. The outstanding economic performance of the past years is thus reflected in the Hungarian economy. [[13.10]] This restoration capability is also reinforced by the economic protection action plan, which mobilises more than one fifth of gross domestic product. It was an important decision that the government also transferred development resources to this action plan. We have significantly increased the investment framework: with HUF 65 billion in the framework of the Big Business Investment Programme, a HUF 50 billion health programme was launched, and with HUF 360 billion we launched the competitiveness-enhancing programme. Only in the latter 975 companies operating in Hungary decided to invest a total of HUF 629 billion to protect 215 thousand jobs. The solution is therefore to give Hungarian people the opportunity to work and work. We have only contributed to protecting the jobs of 220,000 workers with the programme for job protection and wage support. Employers have so far applied for more than 10 000 workers in the sector's wage support programme. During the epidemic, the government's economic protection measures contributed to the preservation of more than one million jobs with various investment and wage subsidies. And this is complemented by the continued tax reduction policy: from 1 July, the social contribution tax decreased to 15.5 percent, leaving 160 billion forints for employers this year; tax and contribution reductions were granted to the companies of the company, and in total we helped to protect 360,000 people's work and businesses; businesses in the catering, tourism and leisure sectors were exempted from the employer's tax burden, and we have already decided to further reduce the rate of small business tax to 11 percent. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that last week all the support decisions were taken in the applications for economic protection, including in the case of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, as well as in the case of the "Competitive Central Hungary" operational programme. Due to the speed and efficiency of the assessments, two thirds of the HUF 100 billion budget, more than HUF 75 billion, are already in business, which means that 4,000 companies have already been able to benefit from this support. The number of jobs thus preserved exceeds 110,000. We made it clear from the government this spring: rapid and targeted economic protection measures are needed. The European Union has had exactly the same amount of time to help every country's economy, but Brussels has just reached its first support and is still focusing on political debates, not on resolving the crisis. In this connection, I must recall the statement made by the Socialist Vice-President of the European Parliament, the left-wing German Social Democratic Party politician, the German Federal Government's former Minister of Justice on the German public service radio, who said that Member States such as Poland and Hungary should be starved financially. It's repulsive to hear it from a German politician, bringing up bad historical memories, and I don't even want to qualify for it. However, I must remind you that the Hungarian government's deposits currently exceed HUF 2300 billion, plus EUR 2.5 billion from the two-week-old currency source. If I add these two numbers together, this is greater than the total budget deficit expected for this year, which means we can fully finance the deficit for the following year. Bad news for fans of Hungary is that a major foreign currency loan is expected only in the first half of 2023 if we do not pre-empt this amount by then. Dear Parliament, The government is not using austerity and tax increases in this crisis either. On the contrary, by reducing taxes, increasing support for families, strengthening businesses and investment. Next year, the doctor's wages will increase significantly, but we will also expand the home creation program by reducing VAT, with the support of the state housing renovations. What we want to achieve is that by the time the vaccine arrives and the world economy restarts, Hungarian businesses will be ready to grow in a competitive state. Hungarian public finances will provide and provide the necessary resources for this. The work of the past years has not been easy either, but the months ahead are likely to be even more difficult. However, we have every hope of fighting the crisis successfully again, as we did in spring and then in 2010. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-2	Dear House, It is now up to the political groups to react. First, I give the floor to Gergely Harvesto.
u2020-11-30-3	Dear House, Dear Minister, We have witnessed a particular paraphrase of your comment, because originally this comment came to Parliament with a quick help instead of a squeeze, and then changed its title, obviously at the request of the Ministry. This is no coincidence, it refers to proper and legitimate self-criticism on your part, because there really is no quick help, there is no quick help for businesses, workers, ordinary families, pensioners, and there is austerity, because you are dealing with the economic crisis that you created by yourself by starving and destroying local governments. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] that they make it impossible to supply local public services, that because of your policy, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] public transport, passenger transport and many other local services are at risk. It is so easy to deal with a crisis without austerity that the burden is passed on to someone else. And, of course, they have one other miracle weapon: currency loan. You, who, in a favourable economic situation, yelled snakes and frogs at the previous government because they were forced to borrow money, are now rushing to the market for foreign exchange loans: 800 billion forints of loans were taken up only in the last period. [[13.20]] The government debt is back to over 70 percent, above 73 percent, to be precise. In Romania, however, just to take a similar example, it was just over 40 percent. And, of course, the European Union can be criticised, and the European Union can be fought! You guys are doing wonderfully. But where's the help coming from now, anyway? From the European Union, which you are now blaming. At the time when the money was distributed, when the credit could be used to keep jobs, they didn't say, "Yeah, sorry, if there's a rule of law, you don't have to. Yeah, sorry, if you're protecting the Hungarian people against their own government, you don't have to. Then I could really use this money. And that's okay. It's a good thing this money's coming. Just get it to employees and businesses. 'Cause don't brag about the fact that you've used the job-saving subsidies for ten thousand employees in Parliament. You know that hundreds of thousands of workers have lost their jobs and millions of workers are at risk. Why don't you help them, why don't you give them support? Why is it that, by the way, family allowances are not being raised even in this situation, even though this is the only benefit that comes to people? Why is it that, in addition to rising prices, pensioners are not given extra support; they are even playing tricks on raising pensions? Why is it that, for example, they do not give direct wage subsidies or wage replacements to those who have lost their jobs, as opposed to the model of Austria? ! [[Moraj, interrogations in the pro-government benches.]] Why is it not that, in contrast to Austria or the Czech Republic, they do not give support to small businesses who are insane? Because, Minister, they are not dealing with the essence of the crisis. The only thing that matters to you is that you find enemies and fight wars. They're back at war with the European Union. Tell me, Minister, if Hungary is indeed a land of milk and honey in Canaan and democracy, if the rule of law is working perfectly in Hungary, you say that this is a wonderfully functioning democracy, then why are you terrified that the European Union is looking at you? ! If you say that EU funds are not being stolen, why are you terrified of the mechanism that does not give the source to those who do not spend it properly under the rule of law? Why are they starting a political war then? ! Why give up on the HUF 1700 billion due to Hungarian people an amazing amount of money if there really is a rule of law here? Because there's only one thing you care about. It is to be able to steal calmly and not to ask how democracy is in Hungary, and that Hungary is fulfilling the conditions it has undertaken with the accession of the European Union. And finally, Minister, let me talk about something you didn't tell me about. You didn't tell me today that the government replaced Szilárd Demeter. It would be the least I could do to have a normal life in this country. Because Szilárd Demeter is not the new Jew, but the old Nazi. We all know that tone. Mr. Secretary. If you take seriously the fact that democracy, the rule of law, people's lives, Christmas and advent are important to you in this country, then this man could no longer be in his place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By still in place, you'll be conspiring with an anti-Semite, an open Nazi. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-11-30-4	Now it's Sándor Burány's turn. Here you go. [[Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, especially on the government side. Ten years of trials can make a man more patient and impatient. Please try to perform a test of patience here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, In your comment, when you quoted the economic data, you slipped gently, let me remind you that it was enough to go up to the opening page of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office to see that the figures that Mr. After all, quarterly GDP figures show that the economy is still 4.6 percent below the same period of the previous year. Of course, if we look back from here, because Deputy Prime Minister said how much we have improved from one quarter to the next, if we look at the 13.6 minus, which was the data of the second quarter, then there is indeed progress, and I would just add two things to that. If we stand in a hole and look into the cliff from there, even our situation in the pit would be pretty much fine. That's exactly what you just did. The second is that 13,6 percent decline was not even in domestic GDP during the 2008 global economic crisis. Now the Hungarian economy has managed to fall into a deeper gap. Deputy Prime Minister mentioned a few other numbers. He mentioned how many jobs have been protected through OSH support. [[György Balla: Workplace Protection.]] Now, I would like to say that the criticisms of the inadequacy of this assistance are absolutely justified, because according to your own figures, the number of employees who have received additional wage support to protect their workplace is slightly above 200,000. This is about 5 percent compared to the number of domestic workers. Minister of Finance, the same figure in Austria and Germany depends on which country's data are quoted at 20 percent and 30 percent respectively. So much for your occupational safety program. [[György Balla: Workplace Protection!]] Now, as a result of this, the unemployment rates have turned out nicely, more precisely scandalously wrong. This number's rising. If you look at how many people have worked for businesses, businesses and institutions of at least five, 110,000 people are less than a year earlier, according to the last known data on the website of the HCSO. That's how much the number of people working has decreased. That's how much you've managed to protect the jobs, Deputy Prime Minister. And by the way, that GDP has fallen, that the general government deficit has gone away, I wouldn't blame it on my part, because we're going through a crisis. For example, I do not follow your rhetoric or your rhetoric, when even the previous governments are held responsible for the global economic crisis, I do not do the same. However, I say that now that there is still a wealth of money in Europe compared to 2008-2009, and all the countries and the European Union say that crisis management is now more important than a lack of budget, it is not so surprising if these figures go away. The question is, what are we going to use this for? The problem is that, unlike Germany and Austria, as I just called, we did not use these funds to protect jobs in Hungary. We couldn't even protect the jobs, but the lack of public finances has gone away. Well, that's not a great achievement, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because for your favourite purposes, for sports investments, for the Belgrade railway line in Chinese investment, and I could mention the subsidies given to Lőrinc Mészáros, they spent abundantly on it during this period as well. What should be spent to a much greater extent: OSH, job protection in the form of additional wage subsidies, as it reaches 80% in the neighbouring countries, where appropriate. There is no need to fear such loss of income for the people there. Unfortunately, it is in Hungary. The other thing to spend it on is mass free testing. Clearly, we should keep people at home, not shut down the country, who have mild symptoms of infection in the country. And eventually, you'd have to spend it on 100 percent of the sick money. With mild symptoms, it was never fashionable to stay at home on sick leave, and in addition, sick pay is 60 percent, so families who, let's say, stay home on sick leave because of Covid, are threatened with a serious loss of income. We should raise this allowance to 100 percent during an epidemic. But it couldn't even be achieved where Covid could be considered an accident at work, in doctors, paramedics, nurses [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For educators, there should be at least 100 percent of the sick. And finally, why didn't Szilárd Demeter tell us about his resignation? That's what we're waiting for. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-30-6	Tamás Belling is next, please.
u2020-11-30-7	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. If I have to briefly sum up your speech before the agenda, then I can sum up that this is mostly a bluff, a hint of bluff, a little political circus, a complete lack of panic and a complete lack of meaningful announcements. Today's news, Minister, that exports of services in Hungary have decreased by 32,6 percent, with imports of 31.1 percent. Also today's news is that overdue invoices have doubled in the economy over the past period from 23 percent to 43 percent, which means that every second one is now the case with regard to unpaid or later payable invoices. [[13.30]] We all know in this House and, unfortunately, Hungarian businesses too, what this will lead to: this will lead to the massive failure of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises within weeks and months. This is the first step of the circle. Then, Minister, you were amazed at the fact that more people are dealing with next year's budget deficit and the untenable budget. Minister here confirmed that 1700 billion forints didn't come in until this year. Compared to this, you are still engaged in a veto circus, endangering the arrival of thousands of billions of forints of EU funding in our country next year. And this is only part of your power, political game. Only, you know, Minister, not you, but Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian people will pay the price at the end of the day. Then you forgot to tell me, Minister, speaking of bullshit, that the nearly 3000 billion forints that have been spent since spring have been spent for such sublime purposes. This Saturday, a large portion of money was spent again, so they managed to get 900 billion forints in ten days. Let me quote a few things: HUF 41 billion for church-built heritage protection; HUF 22 billion for community-wide public service investments; Paks II. HUF 11 billion for the capital increase; then HUF 9 billion for the implementation of the national athletic centre; HUF 6 billion for active recreation programmes; Adria Port Zrt. 5,5 billion forints. Also 5.5 billion forints: indispensable, Minister, politically, humanly, professionally, that the Nemzeti Ménesbártyok és Tangyazdaság Zrt. to raise your capital now 5,5 billion on Saturday. You know, that's why the ball is standing on the spot; right now, it's going to be a castle with János Lázár. In the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, it was obviously essential for economic protection and health! And don't forget, because this year 82 billion HUF was transferred from this amount to the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. By the way, billions have flown into stadiums, space exploration and hunting exhibitions, Minister. So there's one thing no one in this House can accept: there's no money. And let's see what he didn't get and what announcements he missed today. We have been demanding a 100% pension for weeks and months, Minister, because this would treat the spread of the epidemic at the same time, and otherwise help the Hungarian people to make a living so that they do not have to go sick, because they have to choose between going to work or losing almost half of their family's income. It's inhuman, it's not normal, so be nice to do it. The extension of the period of unemployment benefit and the increase in the amount of unemployment benefit cannot be postponed. 200,000 people today do not receive any care in Hungary. You know that, Minister. We were talking about wage subsidies, and my fellow Members have demonstrated exactly the difference between 5 percent and 30-40 percent, which Austria and Germany give to their own citizens. You're not doing anything about it. And I would like to continue asking you, it was the first Sunday of Advent, here comes Christmas, my honourable fellow Members, people, families, at least one or both parties lost their jobs in tens and hundreds of thousands of people, with so many humanity in one press, and we have tabled the proposal to give one forints per child to these families before Christmas. Maybe they're paying for the heating, maybe they can buy something to eat or a gift for the kids for Christmas. Come to your senses, be kind to dealing with people's health and livelihoods instead of the political circus. And if it's advent's first Sunday, ceterum censeo [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How long can Szilárd Demeter stay in place, when will the decision be made? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-11-30-8	Congressman Antal Csárdi now has the floor.
u2020-11-30-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Unfortunately, we have seen that your speech before today's agenda was perfect for the way in which government communication has so far been experienced: in virtually a victimial role, the government is pleased with how many people are hurting this government. You're talking about false allegations, and I think that the Ministry of Finance has all the means to prevent any possible false or possibly real allegations. The simplest and cleanest way to do this is to submit a budget amendment for 2021. But let's get in line. Technically, you're pretending to be completely silent about the budget for 2021, and you'll communicate about it using all kinds of communication panels. It is true that this could be spoken of as such, and it would even be necessary for us to talk about it, that it is submitted and visible to all, voters and Members, what your plans are in 2021. 'Cause technically, what is it? It really is what my fellow Members have been talking about, and so far your crisis management measures have not affected the most important area, and this is the daily life of the working people. The replacements you've made are little, missed and late. The fact that you simply refuse to temporarily raise your sick leave to make it a hundred percent weakens the tribe of defense. And I think it is also unacceptable that, in the economic situation in which this country is now in, we still have to fight to ensure that the unemployment benefit is nine months old. I think that you are mistaken, that you should not only be serving the capital here, I know that you are doing it, you are basically helping the economy, you should be helping the working man, because they are the biggest problem at present. What we see is that micro- and small businesses have little or no support, and we need it. I think that we don't have to go far, that trade in tourism is practically on its deathbed. If this goes on, then I think that hundreds of thousands of bankruptcies or at least tens of thousands of bankruptcies will occur only in this narrower trading segment. I think it's worth talking about what you're saying, but the cleanest speech would be if the budget changes were on the table before us. One month from this year, if I count to the end of this session, then there are three weeks, and we do not have an amendment to the budget for 2021. However, we know that we have to expect a deficit of about eight to ten times next year compared to the budget originally adopted, and we know that we have to count on a deficit of HUF 3000 billion in addition to the original deficit target. And you are not submitting the amending budget in violation of transparent farming, and I think that this is important not only for us in Parliament, but also for the opposition side, because you have received a signal message from the large business community, but the Eastern Commission has stated that the uncertainty that comes from the veto on the one hand, and the lack of transparency of the budget next year, is not in the interest of large companies or of Europe, and it is in Hungary's best interest. Dear Minister, I have to finish with what the others did: what about Szilárd Demeter? How many minutes will he be in position? When will the government separate itself from him? When will you make the decision that is expected and necessary? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-10	Now it's time for Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-30-11	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Minister has been a great disappointment, since, instead of pressing, the quick help was left out of his work paper entitled "Quick help" and instead, in the first two minutes, he practically listed the top products of political propaganda, which I think is unworthy of a professionally well-prepared minister. [[13.40]] I must tell you, Minister, you are the Deputy Prime Minister. In my opinion, you cannot say a word about the majority of Hungarian workers today, while a few days ago there was time to put your friends and friends in the position of brewing, there was also a debate in the House about this, and during the summer preparations they were unable to arrange enough for vaccines for flu vaccines to be professionally available to all those in need. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks:]] And I'm still getting signals that a test result will take more than a week to get back. Minister, you're unworthy. And in this situation, they tell us the production report that everything is fine in Hungary, the universe, the best economy in the galaxy, is ours. In the meantime, explain to us why they had to borrow 900 billion forints if everything is all right? Why did they take money from the municipalities, if everything is so well, and why didn't they take it away from, say, the commercial banks, which have only been paid a little tax by name, but they can write it off in their taxes over the next four years? The question arises as to why the veto produces a situation, Minister, in which amounts, billions and hundreds of billions of people are excluded from the common register for non-refundable and job losses. Let me get this straight, Minister. If anyone tries to impose decisions on Hungary, whether gender or resettlement quotas, I will resist it and the Jobbik faction will also resist it. The thing is, if it's about corruption and putting your friends in position, and they're vetoing so that no one can see the corruption channels you've entered, then we'll be your indescribable opponents, and they can't explain, they can't relativity. Stealing doesn't have color, stealing doesn't have party color, and if you guys are organized and institutionally discrediting public funds, don't be surprised. If we're doing so well, why do we have to decide on an eastern Chinese mega-loan in Hungary over 240 years? Explain that the investment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, which will be returned in 240 years, to which you have now been able to give 80 billion shares in the difficult situation, whose interest it is in how long it will take you to repay it! You could talk about other Oriental loans, but... Minister, you can't do that without talking about full social groups. You promised not to leave people on the side of the road. More than 13,000 families were evicted without accommodation, Minister, two weeks ago, your strategic partners, the executives, were still throwing people out of their homes. You do not dare to talk about this here in Parliament. The warrior, freedom fighter government dares not face the fate of these people. You also promised to cure everyone, but everyone knows the real picture. However, while the Audi is being granted a two billion grant agreement and its total income lost due to the quarantine situation will be repaid, all in all, list three small Hungarian businesses, Minister, which have also received this 100 percent replacement. Do it, honor the Hungarian companies with this! After all, when we came up with the concept of the Hungarian Fund for the Protection of Jobs, that 80% of all wages are being replaced, you contrasted with a maximum of 200,000 jobs, so you can help up to 5 percent of the employees with 15-20 percent replacement. Is this a freedom fight, Minister, or can we wait for a revolutionary announcement? It's quite amazing that they forget about entire social groups. You can shake your heads and act as B-category stand-up comedy, but that still leaves the nugget thing the same. A penalty tax is imposed on the cadavers, and they are not willing to argue about the limit. Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit system is being operated; it should be increased by 90 days, it could be worked, it could not even be negotiated. You can imagine an increase in the family allowance on Jobbik's family card; in the case of child raising articles and basic food availability, we would absolutely increase this. I also have to say that while you are playing wartime, the executives can prohibit 33 percent and 50 percent of the lowest income without delay, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers lose their jobs, not even a penny of your tight-handed system, and then you stand up and hold a victory production report. It's completely unworthy of you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is quite amazing that the quality of the Hungarian Parliament has fallen to this point. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-12	After I see no more speakers, Minister will have the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your valuable contributions. Allow me to respond to them in a few sentences. On the one hand, let me start with those left-wing Members who were already sitting in Parliament when the IMF loan was taken up by the country. Remember that their economic performance was so successful that the markets no longer financed Hungary, so we had to turn to the IMF. The performance of this government was also that, while creating economic growth and creating jobs, we were able to repay the IMF loan that you took up in 2008. This is true for the speech by Gergely Arató, Sándor Burány or Tamás Harangozó. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly say a few words about the situation of the municipalities. This government took over 1369 billion forints of debt from the municipal system. Currently, at the end of the third quarter of 2020, the funds of the municipalities are HUF 1512 billion, of which HUF 592 billion is in the treasury account. Only in sovereign debt there are HUF 285 billion of municipal assets. I know you're particularly concerned about the situation of the City Council. Here, let me tell you that in debt consolidation, the government took over 217 billion forints of debt from the Municipality of Budapest, and the Municipality of Budapest had 134 billion forints of sovereign debt in September this year. So I think that the objections to the state of the municipalities do not hold their ground. Allow me to respond briefly to the labour market situation, as Members who are concerned about the labour market forget that, prior to the crisis, the number of unemployed people in Hungary has fallen to a very positive degree, and even if someone has carefully studied the latest KSH data published, he sees that, on the basis of the November KSH report, there were 4 million 451 thousand employees in Hungary, which is still over 700 thousand more than in 2010, when we took over the country's governance. So Hungary was also in a completely different position in terms of the labour market from neighbouring countries or even Austria, which was mentioned here. The unemployment rate was much lower. So we in economic programmes also had to target the labour situation, but also elsewhere. I also thank Mr Sándor Burány for his speech. Here, unfortunately, Congressman did not listen well to what I said. I was just saying that if there is no epidemic, if there is no emergency, the Hungarian economy's ability to re-orient and the situation that promotes economic growth is much healthier and stronger, as the performance of the economy has increased by more than 11 percent between two quarters. I think you should take unemployment data into account. Hungarian unemployment before the epidemic was 3.3 percent, now 4.3 percent. Of course, every Hungarian employee and every Hungarian citizen who wants to work can count on the government's support, but this unemployment figure is still much more favourable than the vast majority of Europe's countries. We will, of course, continue to support Hungarian businesses, as we have done so far. I was just talking about the GINOP grant that we have used in recent years, worth HUF 3000 billion, which served only and exclusively to support small and medium-sized enterprises. And now, in this situation, we have been able to make a quick decision, and we have been able to help support the SME sector. Here, I would remind you of what you did not during a crisis, but also during a more favourable economic activity: you have taken on debt, the country has been indebted and privatised; here I would remind you of the sale of Budapest Airport or MOL shares. As far as your comments on Demeter Szilárd are concerned, it is not my place to link the country's funding to Demeter Szilárd's writing, but let me say that Szilárd Demeter withdrew his writing and even deleted his Facebook page. [[Intercom from opposition lines: Cancel!]] He wrote that what he wrote could damage the memory of the victims, so he admitted his mistake. By the way, I also note that the left here is a double standard, because when one of the left-wing representatives, mayor, said that the man of the year deserved to be Adolf Hitler, you did not take any concrete steps. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the last time I saw László Bíró, it was like the double standard worked. Thank you for your attention. [[Intercoms from the opposition, applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.50]]
u2020-11-30-14	The political groups are now making their contributions before the agenda. First up for the Dialogue is Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I give you the floor.
u2020-11-30-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to thank the health workers, the social workers who are in the hospital, the people who wish to get well as soon as possible, and the families of the deceased, for our sincere condolences. Ferenc Deák, who has often represented our country in successful negotiations abroad, for example in Vienna during the settlement, left the following advice to posterity:. We can risk everything for Hungary, but we must not risk Hungary for anything. The Prime Minister does not seem to follow the advice of his home country sage, because right now, in the middle of the epidemic, his short-term political interests are more important than the well-being and security of the Hungarian people, because by blocking the European Union's recovery fund, he takes 250 thousand forints from all Hungarians, and by taking on a 900 billion forint loan instead, he pays 90 thousand forints for every Hungarian person. But what could be done with this grant? In hospitality, tourism workers, everyone whose work is in danger, we could give at least 90 percent wage support. We could give 100 percent of the sick money to everyone who has to stay home because of the plague. We could give a normal, fair, inflation-following pension rise to pensioners who are in the most vulnerable situation right now. We could buy laptops for all Hungarian students from the upper school to the university, and internet subscription, so that we could help distance learning. Or, in 2021, we could introduce the basic basic wage for crisis management proposed by the Dialogue, which would remedy these problems. It is no coincidence that, according to the EU-Parlament survey, 72 percent of Hungarians support linking the rule of law with the payment of EU funds, because they know precisely that this guarantee is that their money will not be stolen. [[Constant noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] In the rejoinder, the representative of Fidesz will talk about a lot of things, of course, not about the point, there will be refugees, serializations, brizzles, Fidesz oversteps propaganda at such a level that people are upset at a level that creates, for example, the unacceptable manifestations of Demeter Szilárd. Fidesz claims that the reason why these conditions of rule of law are imposed is that Hungary is being criticised for the rule of law because it does not want to accept refugees. Yes, but the problem is that Hungary was very critical of the rule of law already in 2012; this was the Tavares report, right, he was the current Soros, and there was no refugee crisis at the time, there was no problem at all. Also, the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, has always said with a loud voice that the V4 fully agree on the refugee issue, they take a position. In this regard, it is interesting why Slovakia and the Czech Republic can accept this rule of law. Here's the catch, and here's the point: Fidesz's arguments on this issue have failed. The rule of law is indeed, in fact, very strict anti-corruption rules that rule out the possibility for the Lőrinc Mészáros and other Fidesz-close companies to steal EU funds, no matter what the Fidesz propagandaists say. And please explain to those people who lose their jobs or take much less money home that they can't help them because you refuse to accept the rule of law! The Dialogue continues to say that if the government refuses to accept these conditions, these strict anti-corruption conditions, then give the money to the municipalities, give the money to the free cities, which are willing to use these funds with the greatest transparency, as they did in the first and second wave of the epidemic in the first line of the epidemic. And we're asking the government not to deal with George Clooney at home, but with the fight against the epidemic, to start mass testing, to test as many people as possible by Christmas to make Christmas as peaceful as possible. In Brussels, return to the sober path, return to the Deák road, and do not devote yourself to their short-term political interests, and submit to the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-11-30-16	On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-17	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, About... [[Intercoms, among them: Can't hear! He's turning on the microphone. Intercoms, among them: Now you can hear it!]] You can hear me now, thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, We have experience with the fact that when the left steers even in a crisis situation, what will become of it: 12 percent unemployment. If I approach you from the numbers, what I can tell you is that if I recall correctly, the Bajnai package was about 6,000 billionaires, not plus, but minus, in austerity; when the left tries to deal with a crisis, there will be hundreds of thousands of people on the street, and at the end of the whole IMF loan, on political terms. That situation cannot be compared to the current economic crisis management. As regards the question of how the rule of law issues are linked to immigration, when they are talking about the rule of law in Brussels, they actually mean migration. Look at the cases in which, for example, Hungary will be prosecuted for infringement in these weeks. They are starting because after the transit zone has ceased, asylum applications must be lodged at foreign representations, and Brussels wants to cancel it. Or look at the migration action plan, honourable Member. It says that immigrants should be given a home, that they should have political voting rights, and that EU funds should be spent on immigration, and I only quoted three. So, please, take a look. And if you consider the basic income as a solution, then I suggest you tell me who you want to take money from. 'Cause what's the point of a basic income? Giving money to people who don't work and taking it away from people who work. Tell me how to take it and how much they want to take away from working Hungarians! By the way, we already know that they want to raise the income tax rates. Then put the cards on the table and tell them how they want to take money from them. Speak honestly. We also agree that jobs must be protected, but we believe that tax cuts are the solution here. With this approach, we managed to bring unemployment down from 12 percent to less than 4 percent in Hungary. On the other hand, left-wing municipalities are already thinking about raising taxes, and in this, Budapest City Hall is one of the main hubs of this policy; they point to the government, but they want to raise taxes for businesses. And if you say it's just a plan, and there's nothing going on, then let's look at the local level, see, say, the districts. There are some places where the parking fees increase dramatically, somewhere the public reservation fees are raised, somewhere local taxes are raised, someplace layoffs, someplace rents are raised, someplace rents are posted, some of the tenants are posted, the public employees are rented out of their apartment like a 2008 political retro movie, left-wing restrictions, many seasons. I wish they were so active in the fight against the epidemic. There is one other issue in which they are active: re-planting pumps where they have access to city leaders. Take, for example, the hundreds of millions of bus tenders. The amazing thing happened here was that the acquisition was won by a company that wasn't registered at the time of the announcement, so it didn't exist. Now there are two possible cases: that in such a display, you do not require that there be any experience with a contract of hundreds of millions, or the other case, which is worse: this could happen because you knew in advance that this newborn company would win. It's been a couple of days since the scandal started, and you'll be betting for the future that it won't be like this in the future. But don't get ahead of yourself. First, give an answer to how a zero - mile - long company might have been given such an important assignment! How could they think that such a company could perform such a task, although we do not know that it was at all among the criteria to be able to do the work. That's how it is. So on the big tour of the metropolitan mugs, it looks like we're gonna have to separate lanes for the offshore bullies, and we wouldn't be surprised if Miklós Hagyó was a candidate for the vacant deputy mayor seat. Either way, what we see is the worst left-wing combo: protection against the epidemic is not supported or even truncated, jobs are threatened with various austerity measures, and if that is not enough, they will bring back the nokic box policy. Now, this is the policy that the Hungarians wanted to close, and if it's up to us, we won't let you come back. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-11-30-18	On behalf of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Next week, the leaders of the European Union will basically decide on the issues that determine our future. The Union's climate policy, decision on stricter climate targets and financial plans for the next period, such as the adoption or non-approval of the seven-year EU budget plan and the recovery fund, will be on the agenda. As we know, the Polish and Hungarian governments have announced the veto on financial plans. With this veto, the Hungarian and Polish governments have practically taken the budget of the European Union hostage, the 1.8 billion proposed by the European Commission By blocking the EUR 10 recovery package, they will prevent rapid assistance from citizens of the European countries affected by the Crown Virus crisis. In other words, they are willing to sacrifice lives for power. This is simply unacceptable! The Polish and Hungarian governments want full access to EU funding, but they want to avoid all controls on breaches of the rule of law and respect for fundamental democratic values. They contradict EU treaties and selfishly harm families, businesses and citizens all over Europe, including in Hungary. Of course, we know that there is something to hide between governments and the Hungarian government, because the Hungarian government interprets the rule of law in a fidesz way. The rule of law, according to the government, is when they occupy all important positions when, in the midst of the crisis, they amend the Fundamental Law and the electoral law, when they share resources between Lőrinc Mészáros and the fidesz oligarchs as they please. According to the rule of law of Fidesz, there is freedom of the press in Hungary, and everything is fine in the public media operating from HUF 120 billion; HUF 120 billion for the public media, but there is no HUF 45 billion for social workers. Unfortunately, the government leaves the people in need on the side of the road. In the middle of the crisis, the government has not changed its job search support, while over 60,000 people have lost their jobs in the last two months. It does not change pensions enough for the hundreds of thousands to starve, it takes all resources away from the municipalities, and it continues to seek the favor of the multinationals. Ladies and gentlemen, Veto is a historical sin, which can cause irreparable damage to Hungarians as well. Therefore, LMP strongly demands that the government do not confuse the interests of Fidesz and Hungary. The rule of law is a universal value. If the government is serious about having nothing to fear in this area, then do not be afraid of examining the rule of law, withdraw the veto. Another important issue for the European Council next week, which will determine our future, will be tightening up the EU's climate targets. In recent years, the LMP has consistently pointed out that climate change is one of the major challenges of our future, which is particularly relevant for our country, and that action must therefore be taken immediately. Extreme weather conditions are causing increasing economic damage, particularly affecting agricultural crop results, drastic increases in food prices and, not least, human health and the quality of our environment. From the government's point of view, we have found that he has chosen procrastination policy and green painting. In the spring, he neutered the climate bill, putting in targets that were already scarce yesterday. We ask the government to rise to the challenge, because climate change does not stop at national level, it cannot be controlled by vaccines, only by smart, fast and effective action. Support the European Union's more stringent climate objectives and do not forget the adaptation tasks. Finally, I would like to express the LMP's objection here on the statements made by Szilárd Demeter. Unacceptable! It's not enough to withdraw your claims and erase yourself from Facebook! Such a person has no place in public life and must not remain at the head of an institution such as the Petőfi Literature Museum. We expect immediate action from the government. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-30-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and He brought important questions to the Parliament about our sovereignty and the representation of Hungarian interests. These are questions that are indeed worthy and should be discussed, but allow me to try to do so by emphasising the Hungarian position, the representation of Hungarian interest. After all, if we look at these debates, if we look at the questions that you have raised in your speech, we can see that you and you on the left are regularly and consistently politicalising against the interests of Hungary. They do not represent the Hungarian interest in Brussels, but they want to represent the interests of Brussels in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is, and you know it very well that today, in Brussels, only the country that lets migrants into its home country is regarded as a rule of law. The state that protects its borders and protects its country from migration simply cannot be regarded as a rule of law in Brussels. Therefore, after the adoption of the current proposal, there would be no obstacle to linking Member States' funds to support immigration, to support the issue that the Hungarian people have repeatedly and definitely said no to. They are trying to get us to blackmail Hungary, because this proposal, which is on the table in Brussels, makes it possible to blackmail countries against migration through budgetary means. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My request is to resist this experiment. Try to represent the Hungarian interest once! Try to accept once that the Hungarian people have repeatedly and definitely said no to migration, said no to immigration, and therefore we cannot support any proposal that will result in this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me also to draw attention to the fact that the budget agreement was reached in summer. The Hungarian and Polish governments are sticking to this agreement, this agreement was not broken by us, this agreement was a good agreement. However, after the changes have been made, previous agreements and proposals have been broken, so all countries, including Hungary and Poland, have the right to veto guaranteed by EU treaties. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We want to exercise our right, we want to make it possible to protect the interests of Hungarian people and say no to the integration of a new criminal and extortion mechanism. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and So our position on this issue is clear: we cannot contribute to Brussels deciding on issues that are Hungary's sovereign right, and we will not allow Hungary to become blackmailable, whatever you say here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The other issue is similar in many ways to what you said in relation to climate change. It must be said again and again here, in this Parliament, that it cannot become a political debate, it cannot be made a political playground for this really important issue. It cannot be said that this government does not act, because if we look at the performance of either the past months or even the past years, we can clearly see that Hungary is a European climate champion in comparison, and we can also see that no government has ever done as much in this area as the national civilian government has. We have adopted the climate action plan, we have adopted the energy strategy, the national energy and climate plan, the climate and nature conservation action plan, the implementation of which will take place, either in one way or in the other. And, honourable Member, you should be ashamed of the fact that, as a pro-green politician, you have said no to the climate bill, saying no to the parliamentary decision and the law that you have tabled, which contains the serious things that you have noticed in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian state's position is also clear here: we also represent the Hungarian interest in the figures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2020-11-30-22	I now give the floor to Gergely Harvesto.
u2020-11-30-23	Dear House, Let me begin by briefing Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, who unfortunately understood very little about the European Union's mechanism of rule of law [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh! Tell us.]] This is not about immigration. I know this panel for you, whatever it is, any question, then immigration, Soros, Gyurcsány. I've seen the Secretary of State Dömötör go there, so that he doesn't forget that he made it his heart to say that this was always the case, that migration was now the current one. But the truth is, do you know what the EU's core values are that all EU Member States have to comply with? Respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, human rights including the rights of persons belonging to minorities [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Szekler autonomy?]] respect, pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity, equality between women and men. Article 2 of the EU Treaty, can be read in it. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State or the government's response what's wrong with you. Which of these do I not want to respect, even at a price that costs Hungarian citizens an amazing amount of money and a long delay for the whole Union? Instead of ruining Hungary, let's move further away from the EU, but shouldn't we have to respect them? That is not why I asked to speak today, but to talk about another very important matter, which will determine the fate of this country in the short term. I know you don't really care about the problem of ordinary people, but I'm sure you're thinking about Christmas coming, and we're all concerned that the approaching family holiday will not be overshadowed by the danger, the risk of meeting with our loved ones and then getting sick, the epidemic will spread. Surely you would like families to be able to celebrate together under the Christmas tree; if you do not have to be afraid of not meeting your family members because of the epidemiological restrictions and especially because of their own responsibility. From the beginning, we say that if we want to avoid closure, if we want to avoid restrictions, and especially if we want to avoid spreading the epidemic to the present extent, people getting sick, and unfortunately, another and more records of those who have died, then this can be countered primarily by extending testing. It would be good for everyone to feel free to go to their loved ones if everyone had the opportunity to celebrate with them without otherwise risking anyone's health. We therefore propose again, and we would like to ask the government very strongly to allow all Hungarians to be tested for free before Christmas; so that everyone can be sure that if they travel, if they want to go to their loved ones, they will not be in danger, and of course they will not be in danger. We would like to ask, and even demand, on behalf of Hungarian citizens, that they stop playing with their safety; that they do not stop testing, but, on the contrary, extend it. Take examples of Slovakia, take examples of Austria, make it possible for all Hungarians to know that when they travel on Christmas, when they meet their relatives at Christmas, they are not threatened by this meeting, and of course they are not in danger. I think this is indeed a matter that is a national matter at the time of the epidemic; which has no political exclusivity; which does not in any way prejudice your political interests. It's simply a question of humanity and common sense. It is simply a question of allowing everyone to celebrate Christmas and the question of finally curbing the spread of the epidemic. You have slept through the summer period, you have done nothing, despite our demands for testing, you have refused to start mass testing in time, as a result of this extremely serious epidemiological situation. I'm asking you not to make that mistake again. It is not too late to act to ensure that Christmas is safe for all Hungarians. We ask you to allow everyone to be tested free of charge before Christmas and to let everyone know that they are not a threat to others. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-24	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2020-11-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the epidemiological situation is concerned, the crucial factor remains that the number of infections in the world is growing strongly, and Hungary is not spared by the epidemic. We already know 62 million infected, and the number of dead is close to 1.5 million. That is why further protection measures had to be taken, including the return of the elderly's shopping time band. We know that this is also an inconvenience, but we would like to do everything we can to ensure the greatest possible protection for those most threatened by this virus. As far as testing is concerned: mass testing has been carried out, 1 648 000 tests have been carried out so far, filter buses have also been in service, and mass testing of healthcare workers, workers in social institutions and workers in educational institutions is taking place in a total of 16,000 locations. Thank you to those who are involved in this difficult work, so thank you to medical students as well. The government has already developed a vaccination plan. A total of 13,000 points have been assigned for mass vaccination in the country. The first person to receive the vaccine is those who are most at risk. A registration system will also be launched to indicate the need for vaccination. I would just like to tell you one of the developments of the last few days, namely that Pfizer has canceled a significant proportion of the shipments to the European Union, because they say that first they will deliver to the United States. These are committed shipments that were contracted. So that's why you have to stand on more feet. I am talking about the approach that you are regularly attacking here. Unfortunately, what we're experiencing is that the epidemic period can't go on long enough for you to give up the fear and false news campaign. Let's take the last few days, honourable Member. For example, it was claimed that medical students involved in the testing did not receive adequate protective equipment, whereas those applying for it received plexi headguards, facial shields, but also FFP2 masks, gloves and protective cloaks. So what you're saying is a lie. They also claimed that chronically ill medical students are also required to serve in defense. Government agencies don't require anyone to take part in the tests. If someone doesn't want to participate, they don't want to participate. I would like to ask you one thing after all: what else must happen, honourable Member, to stop this hideous fake news company? At least do it in the hardest weeks of the plague, stop it, please. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Stop it! And there is one more thing that we cannot go without saying: you want to make a political issue of the vaccine, while the whole issue is purely a health issue. You're talking about experimental mice, human experiments elsewhere, vaccines that aren't safe. On the other hand, whatever vaccine it is, it must undergo a strict health check, have the necessary protocol and be carried out by health professionals. So you may want to attack the government with this, but in fact, these professionals are being attacked in the middle of an epidemic. I'll be damned. Think about the consequences, honourable Member, of what will happen if less people are vaccinated because of your rumors. What will be the consequences of that? Notice that this is not the field of political games, realize that this is not the autumn faction meeting, this is about people's lives, so don't play with them. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] [[14.20]]
u2020-11-30-26	No, it's not Mr. Harangozó. It's Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-11-30-27	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, My question to the Fidesz politicians sitting here is for the very first time what they do to protect people, because that's not what they do, that's for sure. In one month, 3,000 of our countrymen died from the coronal virus infection, 84 percent more infected in the hospital, 3-4 thousand to 6-7 thousand new infections per day, while every third-fourth test was positive. But the virus threatens not only our lives, our health, but also our livelihood. Half a million pensioners are crippled, hundreds of thousands have no jobs, there are continuous cuts, families can't pay their checks, and 120,000 taxpayers are terrified of January. They don't want to help them, but they can rewrite the electoral law, so they can include the theft of public money in the Fundamental Law, they can, they can, they can, they can, too. Clearly, they are incapable of protecting people from the killer virus, from everyday livelihood problems. Even though we said it, even though the experts said it, it's gonna be a big problem, you guys just beat me up. Here's the result. This is the result of your avoidance of work. But what do Fidesz MEPs, politicians do during an epidemic? Circus and theatre, whatever it takes. After all, they don't pay the bill, we all pay the bill. One of the MEPs of the Fidesz regime, Tamás Deutsch compares the European Union to the Gestapo; the other MEP resigns; the main cultural warrior of the Fidesz regime, Szilárd Demeter, Nazis with a gas chamber, not to mention he should resign immediately; the Minister of the State Party for Health, Miklós Kásler, tells us that the Fidesz regime is doing everything right; people are responsible for the spread of the epidemic. And every Friday, the Prime Minister goes on the radio, tells us that Soros is in trouble, and then he spreads his hand, maybe a little sad and worried about this year's ski season, and reminds people that they don't want to go skiing right now. It's pretty amazing. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, when a person dies every ten minutes in the epidemic, skiing is not the biggest problem for Hungarian people. Notice that Hungary is not threatened by a 90-year-old man, but by a killer virus. You should stop fighting the shadow boxing and the mouth wrestling and start fighting the real enemy, the virus and the livelihood crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, What if, for once, they were fighting the virus for freedom? They wouldn't stop Brussels, they would stop the virus, not on billboards, but on the streets, hospitals, schools, nursing homes. People need assurance to survive, not promise. Or do you really think you've sorted everything out with some serialization, migrantism, and an uncertain promise of vaccination? We should take action. Be mass and free screening, meaningful contact research, be 100 percent sick to infected people, give meaningful help to families, elderly people, entrepreneurs, unemployed people. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Fidesz Congresswoman, gentlemen! You are on the government, you have all the money, all the tools and all the power to decide, but you also have the responsibility. It would be worth listening to the message of Pope Francis, who called the Advent period, besides others, a period of assistance. So come to your senses and start defending and helping, so that at least the holidays at the end of the year will not be a tragedy. For our future, for Hungary!
u2020-11-30-28	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-11-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You have listed many things about how much you see or want to see in the world and in Hungary about defence, only one thing you have been embarrassed about in this list, the Lajos of the Kamuvideos Korózs, for whom you have not apologized today, honourable Member. [[Intercoms.]] that Hungarian doctors made a video about making decisions in Hungarian hospitals, resulting in people who need hospital care getting out of hospitals and therefore dying 90%. This is the video you approved, this is the video that our colleague Lajos Korózs Kamuvideo posted, and then he had to delete it, and then you deleted it. Why don't you say anything about that? ! You attacked Hungarian doctors not to obey their own medical oaths, but to send people home, which, in your understanding, is to send them to their deaths, honourable Member. How irresponsible is it in the middle of an epidemic to tell Hungarian people that doctors make decisions that can lead to the death of people? ! And why are you not apologizing for this, and why are you holding Lajos Kamuvideos in position to this day, honourable Member? Two of Mr Arató's thoughts, which spoke before you, left a very, very deep impression on me. One is when you said, Member, that you will now define the rule of law for us here in Parliament. I've got my head on, so someone can define that in five minutes. I was curious that at law school, volumes were created to try to describe it, but you said that you defined the rule of law and quoted the founding Treaty of the European Union as the important value of the rule of law that must be respected is the rule of law. So the rule of law is the rule of law. That is a beautiful argument, in a quotation mark, honourable Member, that it is precisely a weapon that you could not define here in Parliament, even though you said that you defined it, but you said that the rule of law that is the rule of law was your definition. This means that the person involved in immigration and migration included those who included either LGBT or other gender claims. You have proved to us in Parliament today that this is the biggest rubber law in all, and neither you nor the European Commission have been able to define it. The other, honourable Member, you always refer to other countries. They even refer to countries where doctors protest because there is no protective equipment, because there is not enough security, to countries where the dining room of hospital workers is being transformed and care for patients with coronal viruses, and there is still a list of what kind of, indeed, deterrent news we see in many countries richer than us. But you have set an example here because Hungary should test it in bulk like Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, you have said this as an example. Austria undertook to start testing teachers and police in December in its three western Member States, federal states and provinces. In December, he will start testing these two professions in three provinces, while the targeted testing of social workers, targeted testing of teachers and targeted testing of healthcare workers has been taking place in Hungary for weeks. And you here in the Hungarian Parliament claim that Hungary is lagging behind, while we are weeks ahead of what has been announced in Austria, and you are trying to deceive the Hungarian people that it is really as if we are behind the country which, thank God, we are ahead of it, and we have introduced restrictive measures sooner if I look at the spread of infections than they are. Mr. Bertalan Tóth, you said you were concerned about the livelihood of pensioners. Then why weren't you worried when they took a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners? You said you were worried that families would pay their checks. Then why weren't you worried when electricity prices were doubled and gas tripled? There was no problem with that when they raised VAT, it was not a problem when personal income tax was skyrocketed, there was no problem when family tax benefits were taken away, there was no problem when they took away the third year's child from the families, then there was no problem that he was concerned about the family's payment? ! Companies are terrified of January, says the honourable Member. We were all sitting here, and I also looked at the voting record: June 16, 2020 when we voted on maintaining the credit moratorium so that companies would not have to be afraid of tomorrow, but that there should be a credit moratorium, and that Hungarian people would not have to be afraid of tomorrow, and you voted for it? I need to see that you didn't vote for it. You said that no one should be afraid of loans and taxes, while when we decide on it here in Parliament, you press the no-knock button. And he wasn't alone in this, I'm not addressing this sentence just for you, I'm addressing it to almost all opposition representatives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Who here did not support the defense against the Crown Virus in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2020-11-30-30	The word now belongs to Peter James on Jobbik's side.
u2020-11-30-31	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! Well, I watch, I listen to the Prime Minister speak on the radio from week to week. He's kind of like a father who thinks he knows everything about the world, and he's gonna tell his kids, tell the Hungarians what they need, and what they don't have, he's gonna teach them sometimes. Now, Father Orbán knows very well that the family register is empty, the children's clothes are torn [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties:]] There's hardly any bread in the pantry, because there's a crisis after all, and he's been in the last few years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Instead of saving up, whatever he was saving up, he drank the money. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nana!]] But there is no problem, because here is our federal system, the European Union, which would give this country HUF 2500 billion in support in this situation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit!]] In order to recharge the food supply, the pantry, and to get to the Hungarians' table (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit!) With the bread, a little bacon, or at least a nice peppered potato, right? One thing the Union asks of our father Orbán: that he does not drink this money, but that he should turn it to what he receives for the well-being of the Hungarians. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are you talking about?]] But our father Orbán wasn't carved out of the kind of thing that he couldn't be dictated to. That's why he gets into the Union, saying that he'll show you what to spend this money on. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And the Poles?]] And he's such a nice guy that even empty bottles can be returned to the store by the kids, and they can keep the change. Our father Orbán is like this: he makes himself look like a statue of decency, but he is only willing to vote in favour of the EU rescue package if he can spend it all on his own, or if he will throw some change to the people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about the Poles?]] Colleagues! The European Union would provide Hungary with a rescue package of HUF 2500 billion. It sets only one condition, that, exceptionally, the government does not steal this money, but give it to the Hungarian people. By vetoing this rescue package, Viktor Orbán made his own position clear. He made it clear that he was ready to lead Hungary out of the European Union at any time. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] He also made it clear that if he cannot have the EU money, then no one should have it. Well, that's a real selfish man who's just busy with himself, while this money could save jobs, raise wages and pensions, fix health care, in Hungarian: we could lead this country out of the crisis. Instead, what are you doing? The Prime Minister announces that, by the way, the government has taken a loan of HUF 900 billion for 30 years, just to show the country-world that we are able to continue the development that enriches Lőrinc Mészáros and his attachments, i.e. the Prime Minister, without EU money. In other words, the Prime Minister, the prince of the thieves, does not give up a forint, but does not put the EU rescue package in his pocket, because he does not know that, but pockets the loan he will want to recover with us and our children for 30 years. Well, there's never been such a vile man on Earth. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] And in the meantime, you vetoed a $2,500 billion grant, it's amazing! Fellow Members, if we did nothing but distribute this money among the Hungarians, everyone would still receive 250,000 HUF support from the infant to the old man. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Credit!]] I believe that this is a small sum for you, but believe me that it would mean survival for the Hungarians and the Hungarian economy, because the Hungarians' money has run out, it's over, there's no more! And you know very well that where there is no income, there is no consumption; where there is no consumption, there is no economic development. Hungarians must be given money, because Hungarians are in crisis. And I have some bad news: your voters are also in crisis. The crisis doesn't know the left and the right, it's not the right and the left, it's the top and the bottom. You're up there, the people are down there, but you're really down there. You represent those who are up there, yourself, your relatives, your friends, which is why you're saying that the EU money should be yours, or that no one should have it. We represent the people, which is why we say that this EU money is due to every Hungarian person who suffers from this crisis: the worker, the pensioner, the teacher, the nurse, the waiter, I could tell you a long time. I know you guys have a lot of guts, but let me ask you, haven't you stolen enough in ten years? ! [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Back off!]] Not enough for you, not enough for the Prime Minister to have hundreds of billions of dollars in the name of Butcher? Isn't it enough for the Prime Minister to have tens of billions of dollars in his son-in-law's name? Isn't Balaton enough for the Prime Minister, Tokajhegyalja? Half the kingdom isn't enough, you want the whole thing? Is nothing enough for you? ! Let's just say that Father Orbán is, in fact, the greatest godfather in Europe; he is a real mobster who drinks public money and is intoxicated by it. We Hungarians will have to sober him up, and we will sober him up. Sobriety will be painful for you, but it will be liberating for us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Luck!]]
u2020-11-30-32	State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go. [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Shame!]]
u2020-11-30-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, It is obvious, Mr Group leader, from your speech that you do not really understand the functioning of the European Union, but I am not surprised at that, because you are the president of a party that campaigned against membership of the European Union, or you have a Member of the European Parliament who has burned an EU flag not long ago. [[Interview from the benches of Jobbik: Zsolt Borkai!]] Consequently, when there were debates on the definition of national positions to be taken in the European Union, you were on the streets of Budapest as an extreme right-wing crowd and were therefore unable to participate in these debates. So if you'll allow me, I'd respond to that. So Hungary concluded an agreement with its accession to the European Union. Simplifying this political agreement, Hungary will open up its labour markets together with other countries in Central and Eastern Europe; it will undertake that Western capital, Western technology, will flow in and put the economy in a difficult position. But for this decision, compensation is due to Hungary. This compensation is the possibility of drawing on European Union funds, which is due to these Member States as defined in the Treaties. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It's not a donation, it's a entitlement in a basic contract. From this, Hungary should actually pursue a strategic goal. This strategic objective is called convergence, i.e. convergence, i.e. convergence, compared to the standard of living in Western Europe. Hungary and the other Central European countries, all macroeconomic data show this, this strategic objective has been well supported over the past decades, and we have managed to get closer to the European Union's average. If you disagree with this, you are arguing not with me, not with the Hungarian government, not with Fidesz representatives, but with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, for example, who said that the Central European countries and Hungary are also making good use of EU funds. If there is any irregularity with regard to the use of EU funds, there is, in fact, an objective mechanism to detect these irregularities. There are several such institutions, such as the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF. In the vast majority of the cases identified by OLAF, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, as opposed to other European or Western European countries, launches the relevant procedures. If we can fix this starting point, it is also quite clear that the EU's budgetary negotiations for the next period, and the discussions on the next generation recovery mechanism, are not about that, but about the fact that they want to use Hungary's budget support under the Treaties for political blackmail. They want to hold back these subsidies because the Hungarian government, under the authority of the Hungarian people, does not pursue a policy that would correspond to these politicians in Brussels or to the George Soros networks. Take a look and debate this issue with your ally, listen to the statements made earlier by left-wing politicians, what they were talking about, that there was a history of this. This is what the Tavares report is about, because that is what the Sargentini report is about, because that is what the procedure under Article 7 is about. What are the findings there? They do not understand how Hungary can become a member of the European Union without becoming an immigrant country or an immigrant continent; they do not understand why we want to support the traditional family model; they do not understand why we are defending our sovereignty and why we think that the European Union is a political and economic platform for cooperation between free and equal nations. These are the criticisms that have been formulated against our country. We represent this position because the Hungarian people have entrusted us with this, and if we want the funds under the Treaties to be linked to such political blackmail means, we have a dog's duty to say otherwise. And we would like to ask that the Hungarian opposition, in the Hungarian left, in Jobbik becoming left-wing, have the insight to take the side of the Hungarian people at least in this one situation on this one occasion. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.40]]
u2020-11-30-34	Next up is KDNP representative István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The protection against the corona virus and the epidemic will continue to determine every day of every Hungarian person. Those who fight in the front line do superhuman work, proving every day that if there is a problem, then we Hungarians can join forces. Thank you for your work, we should thank healthcare workers in the first place, doctors, nurses, paramedics, but thank you also for the work of teachers, kindergarten workers and daycare workers, and do not forget the workers of social institutions. If we look around the world, we can see that everyone everywhere is busy fighting the corona virus. I wish I could say that everyone here is fighting the virus. Unfortunately, just as during the first wave, the Hungarian left is now not fighting the virus, but the government and Fidesz-KDNP, thereby blocking the defense. There's not a day that goes by where they don't attack the fight against the plague and tell a lie. As he did earlier, Szabó Timea or Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos. Speaking of Lajos Korózs, on the weekend several newspapers recalled another golden spit by Lajos Korózs, who said that Lajos Korózs said that he thought he was more talented than an ordinary politician. So, according to Lajos Korózs, Lajos Korózs is more talented than an ordinary politician. Since it looks very likely that talent on the left is measured in lies, this statement is undoubtedly true, as the kamuvideo he created rivals Ferenc Gyurcsány's autumn lie. Of course, by the end of the sentence of extraordinary self - knowledge, he could have placed the famous sentence of Comrade Bastya from the film Lajos Korózs A witness in Kamuvideos, saying that he prefers modesty in himself. Of course, it would be funny if we weren't in the middle of an epidemic, and Lajos Korózs would be willing to do what he should have done a long time ago after his chauvide, and he would have given up the presidency of the Welfare Committee. But since he didn't do that, it's not funny at all, it's absurd and bizarre, so once again we ask him to do what he has to do and cancel. But the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány also took the road to Korózs. DK has now spread great lies, not just one, but more, about the use of medical students in testing. They said, literally, that they force chronically ill medical students to work, these students don't get adequate protective clothing, and even the university doesn't reward this assistance. Now, there is a medical student who, unlike DK, has actually been involved in mass testing, has had enough of the lies of the left, so he has described to the public what is happening in reality: no one is forced to participate in mass testing, this is voluntary work. All protective equipment has been provided and food has been given. By the way, SOTE acknowledges this assistance, so each student involved in the tests receives two credits. But there wasn't enough false news for last week, and the left continued to hystericalize the vaccine. They're constantly trying to make the vaccine an ideological issue. I would like to quote literally from MP Tibor Nunkovics, who said that the acquisition of vaccine is a gamble with the lives of Hungarian people. Sándor Rónai, a Member of the European Parliament of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who says that the Hungarian testing of the Russian vaccine is only undermining the confidence in vaccines. László Varju summation:, there is no need for vaccination outside the EU. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the vaccine is not a political issue, but a health issue. The Hungarian interest is to obtain all possible vaccines from Hungary, to come from the EU, the US, China, Israel or Russia. In particular, in view of the fact that your drug manufacturer, Pfizer, has withdrawn half of the EU's committed volume for US orders. So, of course, an American company is obviously not to be condemned, but it points out that putting everything on a vaccine would be very irresponsible. We know that the vaccine is being examined by the Hungarian authorities, so please do not attack the work of professionals! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-36	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-30-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Today, too, in the previous weeks, we have seen from the Hungarian opposition that it does not trust anything that is Hungarian. Perhaps because the Hungarian people did not trust the previous elections in the left, this may have been in return on the part of the parties of the left, but neither in the Hungarian authorities nor in the representation of the Hungarian interest, they do not seem to trust. Today, too, in the last few days and weeks, we have heard several times that left-wing politicians say that there is no need for a vaccine to arrive in Hungary that is being examined by Hungarian pharmaceutical authorities, and that Hungary should be fully subject to the decision of the EU pharmaceutical authority. This means that we should not look at it according to our own rules or try to obtain vaccines from outside the EU mechanism against the coronal virus, in case it comes a few weeks, a few months earlier, or if there is a quantity from there that can supplement vaccines from joint procurement in the European Union. They would, as you said, reject this on an ideological basis, but also on an ideological basis, so that the Hungarian pharmaceutical authority would not participate in this. This is irresponsible, as we have already talked about here in the House, because when it was possible to require respirators in the spring through joint European procurement, they took these ventilators with 52 weeks of transport time, i.e. to date the quantities that Hungary had requested would not have arrived. They might not have arrived, while Hungary bought directly, they are here and can help treat patients. But not only in the case of the pharmaceutical authority, left-wing representatives said this, but also in the context of borrowing, that Hungary should not take up independent loans, compromise its own terms, not take on what is most important to it, but also fully submit to the joint borrowing of the EU, which Peter James consistently called only support, support and support, deceiving all Hungarian people, and not honestly saying that it is now a subsidy, but from tomorrow it is a loan, because it must be repaid. So it doesn't matter how someone talks about the Union. Earlier, all the EU's real facts were the most negative when the right-handers collected signatures while they were leaving the EU; now that the dice have turned big [[Zoltán Balczó: We never collected a signature on the exit!]] And they switched to Ferenc Gyurcsány's class, and now they're saying about the loan as well as the support. It shows that those who are extremists on one side, on the other side also extremes, can lurch here to the left, but the style does not change. So, in the case of credit, it is also said that Hungary should not take on its own feet, take on its own credit when it is necessary, but only take part in the joint borrowing of the EU, which carries the risk, and at an age of example, when the Member States of the eurozone took out loans and paid back that one country would pay back loans instead of another, and since Hungary has always repaid all its loans, Hungary may in this case be in a position to repay them in place of another Member State. It is typical of the Left's attitude that, now that there is a debate on European funds, on borrowing, they talk about standing up for the Hungarian national interest as selfishness, and they talk about the resources that we have for us, as if someone in Brussels decided that they would or would not devote resources to us. These resources do belong to us, and they are still positive from abroad, as European companies are generating more profits from Hungary than they are receiving support from Hungary. It's amazing how they can attack all the actors in the fight against the epidemic from the left from the vaccine to the defense. We need support, help at these times, but the left has decided that it won't work together. Gábor Kerpel-Fronius said that politics is a period of epidemic, not a period of national cooperation. Maybe they can't even follow how much untruths they've claimed. One day Benedek Jávor, Budapest's representative in Brussels, former left-wing Member of Parliament, says that this is a relatively inexpensive, relatively harmless epidemic, and later they claim to be the opposite, everything and everything from the left. It was also outrageous when Csaba Gyüre and Brenner Koloman said that Hungary was only discussing a Russian and Chinese vaccine. As I recall, they have not apologized since then for being deceived, since Hungary is negotiating for every possible source. But we can remember that if it were up to them, what defense problems we would face, it would be a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. [[14.50]] They were the ones who shut down hospitals, who sent thousands of doctors and nurses to the streets, and who reduced the wages of health care workers. Compared to this, doctors' wages are doubled, the wages of nurses are increased by 72 percent in this cycle. We will strive to make the product tested by the Hungarian pharmaceutical authorities a vaccine in Hungary, and in the medium term we will have to strive to produce these vaccines in Hungary as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-38	I give the floor to János Halász, the last in the list of speeches before the agenda.
u2020-11-30-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The second wave of the coronal virus epidemic is raging throughout Europe, including Hungary. The pressure on our health system is enormous, but the country is prepared for the second wave. We trust our experts, who will be under heavy strain for months to come. Thank you for the sacrifice of health care workers. We're counting on them, and they can count on the government led by Fidesz-KDNP. Dear House, While EU countries and people living in the Member States are fully focused on overcoming the epidemic, what is Brussels doing? What we see is that in Brussels, they are quite amazingly and shockingly working at the top of the pandemic to sharpen the Soros plan. György Soros's plan, which is denied even its existence, is yet to be implemented point by point on the basis of the guidance of the billionaire philanthropist. The European Commission's latest migration action plan is the implementation of the Soros plan. A conference on immigration was held recently in the EU. It is well demonstrated that despite the terrible acts of terrorism in recent years, the dramatic deterioration of European public security, the bureaucrats and politicians in Brussels continue to support and encourage immigration. The Commissioner for Home Affairs in Brussels said, for example, that there are many migrants in Europe and that more migrants will be needed in the coming years; or, for example, that obstacles should be removed before immigrants are admitted. In Hungarian, Brussels said that it wants to make Europe an immigrant continent, and it does not want to see any physical or legal obstacles to the tens of millions of migrants coming to Europe. The plan also includes giving immigrants the right to vote, in Hungarian the Balliberal pro-immigration forces want an open society with a mixed population of pure political interest, and they want to build their own electoral base across Europe. They also want to pay migrants all kinds of aid and housing with the money of the European people, including the Hungarian people. Dear House, So in Brussels, the Soros Plan has been sharpened, and they are openly sending messages to countries that stand in the way of this. It is clear that extortion is also part of the political conditionality of EU money. Brussels also fulfills Soros' order, as George Soros ordered in 2015 not to give EU money to Member States that do not install migrants. Everything we've talked about over the last few years has become a reality step by step. The Orbán government, Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian people rejecting immigration stand in the way of the Soros plan. That's why they're using everything against us. We can see that the Hungarian left has played from the beginning from the score of György Soros. No one should have any doubts. If the pro-immigration left led by the Gyurcsánys came to power in Hungary, they would also quickly turn our country into an immigrant country. Dear House, Several terrorist acts repeatedly prove that illegal immigration and terrorism are hand in hand, and that the protection of our borders in the epidemiological situation has become more important and vital than ever, since migrants are not only a national security risk but also a strong epidemiological risk. If we don't close the borders on illegal migrants, it could cost people lives. We know that the Balkan migration route remains active. On the Hungarian-Serbian border there is a significant number of illegal immigrants staying there. This is why the border fence has been in Hungary for more than five years and protects us. The border fence will stand as long as Fidesz-KDNP has a government in our country. We know that the opposition has been constantly attacking this fence since 2015 and that they are criticising the strict legal barrier. In fact, the left did not even vote for the defence to carry out border protection tasks. It is clear that Hungarians can continue to rely only on Fidesz and KDNP against the ongoing attacks of the Soros network and against migration, not on the left. Dear House, The Fidesz fraction continues to fully support the government in the fight against the Soros Plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-40	I now give the floor to Secretary Tamás Menczer. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in relation to migration, the situation has not improved in comparison to 2015; immigration is also a life threat, as we can see that people are dying in France, people are dying in terrorist attacks in Austria. There are still tens of millions of immigrants ready to leave today, tens of millions of people who can make decisions to go to Europe at any time, or who are already on their way. In the light of all this, the recent pro-immigration strategy published last week in Brussels is particularly incomprehensible and outrageous, and I would like to summarise its essence in seven points. Point 1 states that the EU's work on integration and inclusion is underpinned by common principles and values that should guide the work of the Member States. In other words, they want to control national decisions and national policy; this is an imperial effort, meaning that they want to take away the right that we now have. By the way, this is the concept of the United States of Europe, whose biggest supporter is the Gyurcsány Party. I would like to bring point 2 here: mainstream policy must be adapted to the needs of an open society and transformed by George Soros, we can add. Point 3 is as follows: integration may start before arriving in the EU, and Member States should therefore, as far as possible, establish and extend integration activities before departure. Which means that Brussels wants to continue to organise migration and not stop it; it wants to recruit and launch programmes before departure, that is to say, it thinks immigration is a good solution, not a problem, unlike us. Point 4 is already about money, this House: specifically increased financial support opportunities must be provided, and the Commission intends to provide funds for the integration of migrants in the next budget significantly beyond the current framework. In other words, they want to organise and financially support migration; if they want to give more money there, it must be taken away from European people, obviously. Point 5 is the following: it is intended to allow access to adequate and affordable housing with the support of EU funds. In English, they want to give an apartment to immigrants. And I would also like to bring here a point: according to the document, migrants are a significant part of the European workforce; that is to say, they want to give housing to immigrants and work, which is particularly outrageous at a time of such an epidemic, which we are now experiencing. Hungarians are the most important to the Hungarian government in general, but especially in times of crisis. We will never give homes and jobs to those who want to enter the country in violation of our laws or who Brussels wants to bring into Europe and Hungary with some quota. According to point 6, the document aims at full economic, social, cultural and political participation and expects to ensure equal opportunities for citizens. It is therefore a sign of equality between immigrants and European citizens. According to point 7 of the final point, financial support should be provided for the financing of objectives such as the promotion of migrants and migrant organisations' participation in local, regional and national decision-making. Which, in particular, means that they want to hand over political decision-making to immigrants, which means they're going to decide about us, the next generations, our children and our grandchildren, they're going to decide, not us. This will complete the process of becoming an immigrant country. [[15.00]] I would also like to bring two statements here, honourable House, honourable Member. Scinás Margaritas, EU Commissioner for the Promotion of European Living, is ironic and shocking that this man is responsible for promoting European lifestyles, he said, in substance, not literally, that doctors and overqualified immigrants who are working in Europe are not dangerous; that is, in his view, crowds of overqualified immigrants are arriving in Europe. That's a shameless lie, to put it mildly. Home Affairs Commissioner Johansson said that there are many migrants in Europe, but more is needed because Europe is an ageing society. This is a betrayal of Europe. If that's what they want to do, their souls are on it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] ♪ but ♪ Hungary will never be an immigrant country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-42	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-11-30-43	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Erik Fülöp, independent; Zoltán Varga, DK; Gergely Farkas, independent; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On the day before tomorrow's agenda, the following representatives came forward: Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; László Varju, DK; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; János Latorcai, KDNP; Pál Barna Zsigmond, Fidesz. On the day after tomorrow, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2020-11-30-44	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the statutory declarations, information materials and envelopes for the family member's declaration of property necessary for the declaration of property will be received by Members at the reception desk at the beginning of the meeting of the Parliament today and beginning on 14 December at the beginning of the meeting, at the entrance of the Chamber of President, at the secretariat of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the epidemiological situation, the place of take-over is designed to allow only one representative husband at a time to the table, so that the take-over process is expected to be slower than usual. In view of this, I ask for the patience of my fellow Members. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the full package needed to make the declaration of assets can then be taken over by the Secretariat of the Committee on immunity. The property declaration form can also be found in the E-courier, among the information and background materials. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now deciding on the proposals to amend the agenda. The Government proposed that T/13645 repealing Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road The debate on the Commission's report on the legislative proposal No 20 shall take place on this day as the last item on the agenda instead of item 20 on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions taken before the hour for immediate questions and answers should take place on this day at 16.15 rather than 15 minutes originally indicated. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands as well. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank follows. The Economic Committee preparing the election has listened to the candidate, and, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, Dr. Péter Gottfried proposes to elect him as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank with effect from 1 January 2021. S/13987 presented by the President You can find out more about this on the website. Dear Parliament, The member of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the personal proposal without debate. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Result displayed on the display: 150 present, 49 away.]] Thank you. Looks like everyone's computer is working, so we're gonna get to the vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. Gottfried Péter as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mr. Péter Gottfried to the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank by 112 votes in favour, 19 against and without abstention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, Now it is the solemn oath of the elected official and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Dr. Gottfried Peter to come to the middle of the Chamber and take his oath. I would also ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to hear it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Gottfried Peter steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-11-30-45	I, Péter Gottfried, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2020-11-30-46	Dear House, I ask Mr. József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the elected Dr. Gottfried Peter to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Péter Gottfried and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Gottfried Péter is the first to be congratulated by Viktor Orbán, then by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Hiller, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes and Dr. István Simicskó.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the Member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary on behalf of the National Assembly and myself, and wish you every success in your work and, above all, good health. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. It follows the discussion of the legislative committee report and the proposal for amendment to the Family Farms Act, adopted on 17 November 2020 by the President of the Republic, sent back for consideration. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature 13261/19. Letter from the President of the Republic No 13261/20. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[15.10]] T/13261/22. T/13261/23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. After a few seconds of technical pause, during which our fellow Members, who are outside their duties, leave the meeting room with an exeggeration and silence, I give the floor to Mr Ádám Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13261 on family farms sent back to Parliament by the President of the Republic for consideration. Bill No. 1. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposal and the report are set out in Article 78 of the House Rule. It adopted it by 36 votes in favour, no votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The importance of the proposal before us has been described several times here in Parliament. I feel that I do not need to show its content separately or the benefits it can bring to small and medium-sized farms in the agricultural sector and to family farms. The President of the Republic drew attention to the small but important shortcomings of the bill adopted by the Parliament on 17 November, which unfortunately missed our attention here during the parliamentary debates. On the one hand, in the case of the tasks of processing specified for the National Chamber of Agriculture, the purpose of processing is not specifically defined at the level of the law, so the legislation does not fully comply with the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act 5. The requirements of paragraph 3 of Section 3. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] On the other hand, the President of the Republic indicated that the Act would also require the disclosure of data managed by the National Chamber of Agriculture which are not possible, and that their disclosure would also include the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. It would be contrary to the law. These problems have been addressed by the Legislative Committee, and now, after the debate, we will have the opportunity to adopt the bill thus supplemented. I would particularly like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the adoption and publication of the proposal as soon as possible is extremely important, since the 30-day transitional period for tax changes before the planned entry into force of 1 January 2021 should be completed. I therefore call for the support of my fellow Members to enable the economic society to benefit from the benefits that the bill intends to provide next year. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome you. I will now ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, as rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] He doesn't want to speak. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that you can expect a period of 15 minutes in the case of the closing. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There will be no two-minute comments during the debate, and then there will be the opportunity to speak at the expense of the remaining timeframes. László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I will be very brief at this stage of the debate, we all know the facts well, and I also attended the meeting of the Legislative Committee. When this law had a summation debate before the vote, it was said from the opposition side that we had a lot of debates with the government side, but it is still the Agricultural Ministry, who, I think, is taking an exemplary approach to either the debates or the Commission's work, and this was also a legislative process of a kind which, I think, is certainly forward-looking in this political climate today. This bill has been adopted by the House with almost complete agreement and full consensus, and obviously the mistakes that have been made have been made, and these have to be corrected. However, the correction will, of course, be supported by the LMP faction and will support the bill itself in the re-vote. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that here President János Áder returned this bill, and obviously the criticism he expressed was well founded and sent it back to Parliament for consideration, but it would be very good to see that President János of the Republic would use his powers in this way in many, many other cases, and would carry out his task in this way. There have been many outrageous bill proposals before the Parliament, which the majority of the government has accepted uncritically in cases where they have seriously violated Hungarian national interests. Therefore, I would also like to ask Mr János Áder, President of the Republic, with respect, to use this tool more frequently, which he has been using. I repeat: we will also support this amendment and the bill itself in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Member László Varga of the MSZP has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP also supported the original proposal here in Parliament, and obviously after the debate on the Legislative Committee, I can say that both the amendment itself and the modified original proposal will be supported. I can say, too, that the President of the Republic would be scraped at this thoroughness, because I also think, in connection with other laws, that this could be used and sent back to Parliament for consideration in several cases, if there were no other, social effects or a proposal for major debates. I think it's important. One moment, actually, I would like to draw attention to a question here before the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee has, of course, included an amendment which the Data Protection Commissioner present at the debate has further amended orally. Obviously, this has been accepted by the present member of the Government, and I believe that Parliamentary Secretary of State was present as a representative of the Government, but I think that, in particular, in connection with a motion sent back, it would be more worthwhile to use the appropriate text in amendments and materials sent before the Legislative Committee meeting, not even in the course of the debate there, to amend the motion orally on the spot. At the same time, we will not be an obstacle to this, obviously the matter itself, which is important for all of us here, the issue of family farms, and I think that our group can wholeheartedly support it, so we will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar is coming from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, it is typical of the matter in which President of the Republic is willing to refer legislation back to Parliament and on what particular issue. I also consider that you were right in the statement that there is a need for a more precise definition of data processing, and its purpose must be clearly defined. At the same time, we would have expected that the President of the Republic would, let us say, also speak when he privatized one of our last national treasures, the state farmland, by the vote of the Fidesz majority, by the Hungarian Parliament. And let's just say, the President of the Republic could have spoken when, contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, which he has set himself by two thirds, which he has voted and which he considers to be granite-solid, the source of ground-privatisation was not in their mind to use it for the purposes set out by the Fundamental Law, i.e. not for the purchase of land, but for other purposes entirely. This could also have been a situation where the President of the Republic was right to speak, but no, he waited until he found a little data processing problem, and on such grounds he could return the law with which we agreed, I believe that all the factions of the Hungarian Parliament have spoken in support, and obviously this amendment will not change this, and will make the legislation even more acceptable. Let us not forget, too, that it was ten years ago just this summer that, during the first, more precisely, the second Orbán government, the first agricultural minister's speech, we were promised that the law on family farms would soon be before the House. This has been more than ten years, and we would have expected much more from this legislation; not only will it help a kind of tax optimization in the sector, but we would have expected it to transform the legal environment into such a way that much more family farming can survive in a given settlement and radically transform support policy, it will no longer disproportionate, as we are experiencing in this situation. [[15.20]] In other words, it would be good to finally experience in practice that not the few will be rewarded with more European Union and domestic support for the most able citizens who do not have the largest land. For example, this could have been the case in the law on family farms, or that we would change property policy in Hungary, and the state would help those who need it, who, say, could be part of a demographic land programme, or even need it on a social basis, rather than those who are close to the government. And speaking of family farms, we still have no answer as to why the remaining few public land can be rented for a quarter of the market price by those close to the government and their companies, for one third of whom we mention so much here, for example, the law on family farms could also say that, unlike them, for a fraction of the market price, state land could now be rented by family farms, and not by these few well-off entrepreneurs near the government. We would have plenty of other tips that this legislation should be about. As I mentioned at the outset, since the legislation has not changed in terms of its substantive quality, we can continue to support it, but its shortcomings and unacceptable living situations that currently exist in this sector in Hungary continue to be criticised, and we encourage President of the Republic to continue to be so courageous and to speak when it comes to squandering national wealth and, for example, when it comes to public land rented to the greats, the most capable, at ridiculous prices. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Agriculture, Magos, the Chamber of Agriculture and everyone involved in this. I think that we could also agree in the general debate that this is a forward-looking bill, in which there was a broad consensus here in Parliament. It is a future-oriented bill, and I would like to highlight this, because it is very important because we are talking about a bill defining the future of Hungarian agriculture, and it is not only important, but also urgent, which is why we are here. I would like to thank the President of the Republic for noticing the mistake that we here in Parliament have not noticed, and it also shows that the Hungarian constitutional system is doing well, and that legal supervision is still working well. And I agree with the amendment tabled by the TAB, which, in our view, deals with this issue in its place, which Mr President raised. For left-wing reactions, I would just like to say that the Fundamental Law is misinterpreted, because the President of the Republic doesn't return the law when you don't like it, but when he sees a legal error or hiatus in it. So that's the difference between our basic law interpretations. He doesn't send the law back on your political side, he's running legal supervision. I would like to thank everyone who has been involved in this important law and, of course, we will also support the law thus amended. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-30-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the Family Farms Act, I would like to say that we have seen, in general, in two areas in recent years, that there can be balance and agreement between the opposition and the ruling parties: international treaties and agricultural laws. In the latter case, in particular, we were able to have a meaningful, normal professional debate here in Parliament if the agricultural politicians of Fidesz left the Soros-Gyurcsány world and focused on the profession; because of this came out legislative proposals such as the law on family farms. So, I think it's very important that we try not only to pass agricultural laws, but all the laws, and then perhaps we can adopt legislative proposals in this way. I was surprised that the President of the Republic had just returned a law to Parliament for consideration, in respect of which the parties with the parliamentary faction had indeed agreed. And in fact, if the President of the Republic had not returned this bill, I would have forgotten that there was a President of the Republic of this country called János Áder; because, while the issue of data protection is very important in relation to family economies, and it is obviously important that we correct this, the Parliament would have done so, so I think there were other issues here, in which the President of the Republic, Mr Áder, could have expressed himself, and, as my fellow Member Nacsa said, in terms of legality. I think that such a legality case could have been the case of the SEC, such a legality case could have been, for example, the reduction of the rights of transgender workers or the reduction of the rights of academic workers, or the question of overtime. But interestingly, the President of the Republic thought that he was going to return a law that was consensual in the National Assembly. Moreover, the past period, we all know, is a very serious crisis for Hungary and the whole world, not only because of the epidemic, but because of the social and economic crisis, but because of some reason, the President of the Republic, János Áder, Mr Áder, did not feel the need to express himself on this issue, to speak to the Hungarian nation, to speak to the Hungarians about the epidemic or about the emerging social and economic crisis. But if you look only at the events of the weekend, obviously and do not misunderstand the processing of family holdings is extremely important. But that János Áder, who is the President of the Republic, did not feel the need to speak about Szilárd Demeter's repulsive, ugly Nazi speech, I think it is quite amazing. The three main public-law dignitaries of this country did not speak, while János Áder considered it most important to reprimand not only the Parliament but also the national ministry in relation to family farms. I wish that was the biggest mistake this government has, to be honest with you, and the agricultural purse. Of course, I am also sure that Mr. Áder will now puppet him, how much he is the guardian of legality and how much he listens to the fact that everything is very well here; but I think that when he will have to examine the amendment of the Fundamental Law from a legitimate point of view, for example, the Fidesz public money theft or KDNP apologies to Congressman Nacsa, I would add that he will not be offended. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So, the Fidesz-KDNP public money theft, which is embedded in the Fundamental Law, is obviously not going to be so eager, Mr. Áder, who is the President of the Republic himself. Of course it would be, because in May of this year, in the middle of the crisis, his foundation accidentally received five billion forints of public money, which was then started to be spent, for example, for a communication tender. I honestly think it's important to have legal supervision. Neither the Constitutional Court of Fidesz nor the Fidesz- and KDNP-like can forgive this at the moment, Congressman Nacsa, just to be precise, Mr Áder himself, who is the President of the Republic, is not embodied. You puppet him, you send him back, you think data protection is important in these cases, which I can tell you is almost the least important issue. The important thing is that the bill on family economies has had the support of a very large majority of Parliament, but Mr Áder does not express itself there in matters that are really important for legality, constitutionality, Hungarian citizens and the Hungarian nation. As the Constitutional Court has long lost its constitutional character, so I think it is true that the President of the Republic has lost his presidential character and is sending back laws to show that he not only sits and hangs his feet in the Sandor Palace, but also works a little bit for his salary. I think that the law on family farms is worth much more than János Áder showing that he is still the President of the Republic today. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-58	Thank you very much. Mr Balázs Győrffy is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-59	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members for the flexibility they have shown here in the second round, and for the good intentions they have shown here in the second round, because we have really not been able to bypass it because of a reflection and inclusion in the agenda. I think that it is indeed a good thing that we can think together so that we can work together on responsible issues. I think that we have missed a very important issue, and I think that obviously dealing with information in today's world is a generally important issue, but it is not an agricultural issue. I think it is important to say that if farmers ask us how this amendment will change the substance of the law, the essence of the law, then I think we can say with a calm heart that they will not perceive anything of this. [[15.30]] This will not result in a change in agricultural policy, which will only change information management issues, which, I think, is very right, must be done. I'm very confident that the law will be passed again. And I would also very much like to encourage representatives of the Dialogue for Hungary to try to vote in favour of the countryside instead of abstaining, perhaps for the second time. The other opposition parties could have set an example in this regard. So I would like to see this legislation in the Hungarian Gazette tomorrow, so that nothing will prevent it from entering into force on 1 January. I encourage everyone to press the yes button. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to speak for the time frame indicated above. [[For signal:]] Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-30-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to take the debate in this direction, just a quick reaction to Congressman Nacsa. I would like to point out that Hungary's Fundamental Law also states that Hungary provides conditions for fair economic competition. I think that in this situation, or taking this into account, President of the Republic, we should have acted against the fact that, without a tender, you gave the Russians the project of the gigantic Paks expansion, based on lies, or you should have spoken, and you should have returned the law when all the documents of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project serving Chinese great power interests and bringing 300 billion to Mészáros Lőrinc's companies were encrypted for ten years. Then these laws should have been returned. At the same time, I can say that we naturally agree with this bill, and I repeat that the LMP faction will vote for this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-30-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Minister István Nagy that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Minister, I would like to inform you that you have a 15-minute window. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank you all for your speech and for your supportive attitude, because we can talk about a good goal, a good law. At the same time, we have to admit that we made a mistake, and it's my responsibility. Indeed, precisely on the basis of good intentions that this could enter into force from 1 January 2021, we rushed with the law to get to the House. And since a very long consultation has preceded this bill at a professional level in order to be able to come to the House with a professional proposal and to stand up to the farming community, which fundamentally alters the taxation of family farms with an almost historic opportunity for primary farming, it is a country-supporting, supporting law that understands every consultation for us, and we have used it at all times, indeed, the administrative circle in which consultation with the Data Protection Commissioner would have been behind us, we have failed to do so. But we were driven by the best of intentions, because we didn't even think it would be a problem. I am very grateful to the President of the Republic for noticing that he has signalled to the House, sent this law back, and so that we can indeed present these proposals to our fellow Members without error. Thank you very much to Lóránt László Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP, for continuing to support this bill and for his assessment that he is exemplary with farmers. I would also like to thank László Varga, on the part of the socialists, for supporting this proposal after the TAB debate. And then, of course, one can bear the fact that some of our opposition fellow Members take advantage of the opportunity to speak for other purposes, and it also stirs up things that are not right here in this very debate. But, of course, one listens, and we can, of course, give them the right answer at any other time in relation to the relevant law, and we can also discuss why my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar is wrong about the things he has suggested. I must say, we were led by the intention of making this law flawless. I am also grateful to the Commissioner for Data Protection, and also to the President of the Republic, that they have done their job, that they have noticed the hiatus that we have committed. For these mistakes, I apologise to my fellow Members for having to ask you here again on this matter, and we had to ask you for another decision. But thank you for your support, and I trust that these supportive words are also reflected in the decision-making process. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-30-64	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. Now I'm going to take a break for 16 hours and 15 minutes. At 16:15, we will continue our work with decisions. (Recess: 15.35 16.18 President: Dr. János Latorcai Recorders: Dezső gullible and Dr. Lajos Szűcs)
u2020-11-30-65	Dear Parliament, Take your seats, and at the same time I will ask our technical staff, the staff of the Parliamentary Office, to check and check the horseshoe for the conversion of the voting machines. [[It's happening.]] Please also check with Secretary Gergely Gulyás that he has been reset. [[Gergely Gulyás: I see my own name.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. However, before we begin the voting procedure, I would like to ask you to press one of your voting machines'present' buttons to check the functionality of the voting machines as usual. [[Attendance statement.]] I declare that 170 Members of Parliament are present, 29 are absent. The Parliament will take its decision. It is now up to the President of the Republic to decide on the proposal for an amendment of the legislative committee to the Family Farms Act, adopted on 17 November 2020 by the Parliament for consideration, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/13261/19. Letter from the President of the Republic T/13261/20. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. T/13261/22 of the Legislative Committee's amendment and T/13261/23 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on a proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13261/22. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 170 votes to none, with one abstention. The final vote now follows, in which we shall decide on the text of the law which has not been announced, as amended by the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the Act, which has just been amended, which requires a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the house rules are 50. § 3 if, in the final vote, the Parliament does not adopt the provisions requiring a qualified majority, this also extends without a further separate decision to leave the provision indicating the fundamentality of the provisions not adopted. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the law on family farms, which requires a qualified majority, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the law, which requires a qualified majority, with 170 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. [[16.20]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the provisions of the law on family farms, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has adopted the provisions of the law which requires a simple majority, with 170 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 46/D. Article 47 (1) (a) Acting under paragraph 1 (c), he ordered a reduction in the due fee of Péter Jakab. Mr. Péter Jakab, Head of the Group, asked the immunity committee to repeal the decision. The Committee did not grant an application by its representatives. Next, the Parliament Act 51. On the basis of paragraph 7 (b), the Member requested that the Speaker's decision be annulled by the Parliament. In view of this, the house rules are 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/13986, Mr Speaker submitted a proposal for a resolution. the same content as the previous decision imposing a reduction in the Member's due fee. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the resolution proposal, the related speaker's decision, the relevant representative's request, as well as the information provided by the Chairman of the immunity committee were all available on our website. In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 47. Paragraph 1 (c) of this Article provides that proceedings against him shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of MEP Péter James is maintained in the scope of the H/13986. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 115 votes in favour, 51 votes in favour and two abstentions. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the decision that has just been adopted. Here you go, notary.
u2020-11-30-66	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act No 51 of the Parliamentary Act, hereinafter referred to as "the Parliamentary Act'. Acting in his powers under paragraphs 8 and 9 (b), Mr.Péter Jakab is a Member of the Parliament of Ogytv. 51. § 7 (b) on the basis of the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-41/763-1-2020. Mr.Péter Jakab maintains his decision to reduce the honor fee for Parliamentary Members, thereby reducing the fee for Parliamentary Members by HUF 4 413 600, equal to its two-month amount.
u2020-11-30-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. [[Some Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I ask you to remain in your seats, because Mr Peter James has applied for a statement in order of business. There you go. You have the floor. [[Intercoms.]]
u2020-11-30-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, shame, I'm serious, shame [[Moore, interrogations.]] That when a country is fighting the crisis, you're here messing with me to punish me for $4.4 million for a bag of potatoes! [[Constant interruptions.]] If I had taken a gift of Adriatic luxury yachting to the Prime Minister, wouldn't you have accepted it? ! [[Without sound:]] Wouldn't that have been a $4 million fine? There's no penalty of $4 million for that. [[With a loudspeaker:]] [[Without sound:]] Wouldn't that have been a $4 million fine? There is no penalty of four million people in this country, because the Prime Minister's son-in-law, through the Elios scandal, is about one. 13 billion (without loudspeaker: ) shorted the country...
u2020-11-30-69	Mr. Team Leader...
u2020-11-30-70	[[Without sound:]] ...there will be no penalty of $4 million...
u2020-11-30-71	...the order of business, please.
u2020-11-30-72	[[Without sound:]] ...that the Orbán family will rob this country...
u2020-11-30-73	Your address in the order of business, please.
u2020-11-30-74	[[Without sound:]] It doesn't violate the House's authority, but the Prime Minister is talking about the fact that he doesn't tolerate corruption. Shame on you! That's the best you can do. He beats it three times, goose goose goose goose back! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-75	Now, at 4:29 p.m., we're gonna take a two-minute technical break, and then we're gonna go over the immediate questions. [[It's a short break. Some of the congressmen are leaving the meeting room.]] [[16.30]] Anyone who wishes to leave the meeting room, please do so as soon as possible so that we can begin to discuss immediate questions. I would also urge my fellow members of the Government to do so. I would also ask my fellow Member, Flórian Farkas, not to keep the Minister busy. Dear Parliament, So now, at 4:31 p.m., we begin to discuss immediate questions. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] Mr. Péter Jakab and Congressman György Szilágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I think Congressman György Szilágyi will ask the question. I respectfully ask Congressman György Szilágyi to reply because of the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-76	There's a time for everything. We'll wait. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-77	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for his answer personally. Congressman László György Lukács!
u2020-11-30-78	Although much of health is no longer left to the Minister, we would still wait for him to answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-79	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Róbert Dudás and Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "How long will the string last? Good-bye, local government? ! ? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[Mrs. Potocska Anita Kőrösi nodds.]] Thank you very much. It's a sign that you'll accept. Accordingly, it is for Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There is certainly no debate between us on one thing, that the safety of Hungarian people is the most important, security in the place, in the settlements, the guarantee of which would otherwise be the local government. However, in recent times, you have taken measures to not only build but destroy, and not only the opposition city leaders have said so, but also Fidesz mayors have raised their voices against it. The constant withdrawal of power, the withdrawal of resources, and your petty revenge on the defeat of last year's municipal election. Why can't you see the reality? Why don't they learn from Europe? In the neighbouring countries, they are just helping local governments and not withdrawing resources. And what do you do? An industrial tax, a car tax, and a list of what they did to the municipalities, and if that were not enough, some Fidesz mayors would even abuse the extraordinary legal order. Let's see what happened in the spring. Komló's Fidesz city administration, the mayor, accepted the city's budget in one person. But what happened this fall, it's just outrageous and amazing. When Hungarian families struggle to survive this epidemic, the Fidesz mayor of Gyál voted for a HUF 4.1 million reward in one person. Wouldn't that have been a better place than the municipality? [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: And the left-wing authorities? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Wouldn't there have been a place to help people there? We have to say quite simply that you are not the safety of the Hungarian people first, but the financial security of your mates, your friends and your stooges. I ask the Secretary of State honestly: when will they finally say what is the real purpose of making municipalities impossible and bleeding out? Because what you're doing is just outrageous and outrageous. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás answers the question that has been asked. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Jobbik is not unique or unexpected to mourn the local governments. Over the last ten years, the local government has been constantly mourned and constantly talked about the end of the municipal system. You have foretold that there will not be a mayor in all settlements in Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what they said! They sent me a letter!]] that there will not be municipalities everywhere, that they will not work in the municipalities. This also involved correspondence with the municipalities. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] This has been clearly confirmed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fake News!]] That's not true, they've made false claims. You're talking about derelicts, especially the withdrawal of power after the municipal election. I don't think you can set such an example. There has been no withdrawal of powers in the case of municipalities, and even local government leaders have been given special powers in exceptional legal order. [[Anita Kőrösi Potocska Laughing: Special?]] which they lived with both in the spring and in the autumn. If this has been or has been illegal or irregular, it has been examined and decided by the Government Office or the Minister of Local Government in the following period or after the spring period. Such problems have occurred in a small number. The mayors were basically good at their job, they were adults, and the municipalities were basically good at their exams both in the extraordinary legal order and in other periods. The local government is guaranteed, the security of the local government is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, and the new system of division of tasks between the municipalities and the state has been well tested, the management of the municipalities can remain stable, the municipalities have the opportunity to develop, develop, and the municipalities do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, One-minute rejoinder from Mrs. Anita Kőrösi... [[For signal:]] My apologies, yes, Congressman Róbert Dudás has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, You know, I used to be mayor, and I have to say, if a settlement manages properly and pays attention to its farming, then there will be savings. But this is not the mayor's savings, this is the settlement's. Where I was mayor, at the end of the term, which I went through as a social assignment, we reduced our taxes. We didn't pay bonuses, we reduced taxes! There's a difference. You can't be surprised, by the way. What do the pro-government mayors see? They see what their bosses do. They treat the state till it's theirs and their buddies', and they do it small. You see, Mr. Secretary, this is what must be replaced in 22 - greed and arrogance! Don't forget the basic thesis that a settlement needs a mayor, not a settlement for the mayor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2020-11-30-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In recent times, they have been rewarded and rewarded not by pro-government or pro-government, but by mayors in general. So if a settlement is preceded, then all settlements, opposition settlements or the opposition metropolitan districts should also be promoted. So these municipalities have taken advantage of the legislative options, and then the voters will experience it, which they will obviously show in the next municipal election. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] But I think that there has been a Fidesz mayor in the town of Gyál since 90, basically the city of Gyál is satisfied with the operation of the municipality in the last 30 years. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I believe this hurts you. The fact that municipalities have savings is true. I will tell you, Congressman, that we have taken over the municipalities with a deficit of more than HUF 1300 billion in loans, compared to that, the municipalities today have more than HUF 1500 billion in savings. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-87	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What experience does the digital working order have in Hungarian public education? It's an address. Mr Vice-President, I would like to inform you that, due to the Minister's absence, you have authorized Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond, so I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding. [[On Dr. István Hiller's signal:]] Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. István Hiller, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-30-88	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, In the spring, the corona virus epidemic forced Hungarian education, our teachers, our children and our students into a digital working order. This situation is not wanted by anyone, but this forced situation is also a kind of opportunity, an opportunity to review, work, and how digital education works in Hungary. The very difficult decision in March to close the schools, after which the decision has been made for weeks, months, and then the summer break has already come to the studenthood, and then the new semester, the new academic year, has begun. I would like to ask you, Mr State Secretary, that you have summarized at least the experiences of this kind in the spring, the second semester of the last academic year, and you have done the work by which we have a clear picture of how digital education works in Hungary. In particular, I want to know how many students, what percentage of students didn't attend, couldn't participate in digital education, and if you tell me this number, I'll also ask why. I want to know how many of the participants have fallen out of digital education based on its entire history. I would also like to know how centralized education is your comment, your opinion, how much you have done your job, how much you have served the teachers, how much you have helped the students during this period. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-30-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, Every country in Europe had a whole new situation when it came to digital education. Our starting position was not bad if we compare it with other European countries, because if I look at the OECD survey of how many percent of Hungarian students have a sufficient number of computers and Internet access at home to learn from home, we are on the same level with countries such as Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria or Finland or Germany or England, and we are preventing countries such as France, Spain or Italy. And if I look at the other side, the teachers, there are more than 65 percent of the teachers already in 2018 who felt prepared to use these IT tools, which is a higher percentage. In order to help those who have fallen behind during this period, after the period when there was a digital work schedule in schools, then the opportunity was opened to direct meetings, obviously coordinated with the school principals, to help students who were behind. At the same time, the government has taken further steps. You asked me to map the government's experiences. Not only has he mapped it, but has made improvements as a result, so the National Public Education Portal has been expanded with digital content, a completely new part of the KRÉTA system, DKT, the Digital Collaboration Space, has been completed so that teachers can hold a lesson for students through this. So we also tried to create all kinds of IT developments during the summer, which is necessary in order that if a second wave comes, this can be used, and the second wave came and should be used. Thus, as of November 11th, the Sulinet portal, with more than 50,000 users a day, with a 30% increase in the textbook catalogue, the National Public Education Portal is also noticeable [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As visitors rise, we also see that these new improved surfaces are used to a greater extent by teachers now during the second wave. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-91	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, István Hiller, Vice President. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-11-30-92	Dear Secretary of State, That's not what the profession's talking about. The profession speaks much more specifically than you have answered me, so I am now speaking on behalf of the profession the data that I sincerely hope you will acknowledge. The profession says that 20-25 percent of students did not participate in digital education, because the vast majority of them are children from poor families who do not have computers, who do not have an Internet of sufficient quality. The profession, Mr Secretary of State, says that 10 percent are students who have access, but have fallen out of the digital working order, whose professional leaders would have expected your response. And the profession says that the centralised system did not provide assistance, adequate methodological and inadequate background information. So I have to tell you to look at it better, because you're not saying what I sincerely hope you know. Unfortunately, the digital working order is far from fulfilling all the money that was available earlier. They weren't good with money.
u2020-11-30-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I think we all agree, and the government is also striving now that it is important to maintain at least part of the functioning of schools as long as the epidemic allows. That's why there's teaching in the lower grades now, because it can never be the equivalent of a classroom class and several weeks of digital education, so we're trying to make it happen. The opposition does not always support us, although you have now put forward professional arguments in favour of why we should do so. That's why we started targeted testing for teachers, and I could continue to see how many regulations we've brought in since August from body temperature measurement, and I could continue, because it's the best for parents and students. I reject the fact that it would be more difficult to resolve these problems with a central organisation, with a central reservation. It was just easier to manage education in such an extraordinary situation at the time, and this is the case in all other cases, not only in the field of education, when there are 3200 maintenance decisions, but there is a state maintainer, and it can help schools more. Imagine, if 3,200 municipalities had been entrusted with obtaining the appropriate thermometers for body temperature measurements for school entry, it may not have been so smooth in a few weeks. As for Internet connection and computer supply, you know that the government has made a decision to provide the Internet free of charge for everyone, so there can be no financial limit because the government has made the Internet free for everyone to learn. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This obviously helps the more difficult ones; and you know that there are hundreds of thousands of computers available so that students or teachers can use them at home. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-95	Thank you very much, and I ask Mr Secretary of State to try to keep the timeframe more decisive and appropriate, but I did not want to prevent it in the answer. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why is the dog attached to the stake? It's an address. Madam Member, because of the absence of Minister, Mr Schanda has given Mr Tamás State Secretary the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2020-11-30-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Can you swim? No? What if I pay you? Hofi Géza's joke as if the government were to do the reverse against the unemployed, when I think of the idea in your policy that you think that the unemployed should be tortured as long as they run out of resources, and in this way we can get them to finally find a job again. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State first of all why, if you do not believe that people can be persuaded by proper social organisation to behave morally and in order for others to thrive, then why did you become politicians at all? The number of unemployed people in our country has risen above half a million, and a significant part of them have already fallen out of all kinds of unemployment benefits. In many countries of Europe, temporary solutions that have increased, for example, the length of the job-seeking allowance or at least the amount of the job-seeking allowance, have been hardly taken to replace actions that have ceased or reduced due to the crisis. Even though the municipality of Dunaújváros has asked for unanimous vote in the government's intervention to help the 4500 workers of Dunaferr, they have been rejected, and we see that the unemployment figures are not so bad because of the Kurzarbeit programme that you love, but at the same time we see that the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of people and then we are talking about families, the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of people and the livelihood of their families are at risk. I think, Mr Secretary of State, that there is a need to do something about this in any way, and I do not understand when the opposition asks you to make a change in view of the crisis, then why do you tie the dog to the stake? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-97	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can swim and I can't afford it. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] But allow me to come to the content of your question, because it is an important issue that you have brought here. First of all, allow me to stress the sentence that slipped out of your mouth. He said that unemployment figures don't look bad. Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your compliments. If a sentence like that comes from the left, then it really can't be that bad. And, honourable Member, allow me to quote Ferenc Gyurcsány's shocking statement here, if we are already talking about people who live on respect, wages and salaries, for whom you seem to be concerned. Do you know how he described them? He said that they are cheap and uneducated from Hungarian wages and salaries. [[Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Yes!]] And they are in the middle of our policy, because we believe that everything must be done in Hungary to build a work-based society, to protect jobs and to create new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us not forget that under the administration of your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, hundreds of thousands of people were on welfare. Instead of focusing on job creation, job protection, aid-based policies, and those who worked were taxed to death. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us not forget that it was your allies, your political comrades, who, by the way, took away the pension, took away a month's salary, reduced the duration of the child's illness, reduced the amount of sick money, and a long list of measures. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're sitting in a faction with those who voted for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder is the one-minute rejoinder. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am extremely pleased that you can swim, but you forgot to mention one small thing: I mentioned the Kurzarbeit programme as a means of cosmetics unemployment data. As a result, unemployment figures do not look so bad, so it has not slipped out of my mouth, but I have mentioned to you that the Kurzarbeit program you love has made it possible for you to bring comparatively good-looking numbers to the people. At the same time, I respectfully draw your attention to the fact that these people are currently working less than 60 hours a month, or less than 15 hours a week. This means that their livelihoods are in any event in crisis, especially with regard to those who, in many cases, have been sent on unpaid leave. So there are a number of people who are not being shown by the HCSO data now, but their livelihoods are in crisis. It is they, honourable Secretary of State, whom the current Hungarian government does not care about. ♪ I want them ♪ [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] draw attention to opposition colleagues. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-101	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State, please.
u2020-11-30-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I still don't fully understand what you're trying to say. We have a well-functioning program that you commend. We are grateful for this, and we believe that the wage support programme is working well. It also worked well during the first wave period, and now the sectoral wage support programmes work well during the second wave. [[Anett's shaking his head.]] grants are available to all; now, in particular, to workers in restaurants and catering, where there is exactly one thing we expect of those who receive the aid: keep their employees and pay their wages. Madam Congresswoman, this is not the cosmetics of data, it is the protection of jobs, and we thank you for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. Thank you so much for accepting... [[Dr. László László Keresztes says no with his hands.]] I'm sorry, he just nodded, and I took the nod to accept it. Then I ask the question: I respectfully ask you, Mr. Group Leader, do you accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister personally for an answer.
u2020-11-30-104	Thank you, Mr President, and I'm sorry if I moved my head in a misunderstanding, but I will definitely wait for Prime Minister. I would like to ask him on a matter of a weight in which I think he is absolutely solely responsible, so I will wait for Prime Minister to come in and answer the immediate questions.
u2020-11-30-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second instant questions, but I would ask you not to sit down, because you are also coming to ask the second question. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Minister? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to inform you that Mr. Minister has given Mr. Tamás Schanda the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person you are responding to, or wait for you, Minister...
u2020-11-30-106	I'll take it.
u2020-11-30-107	Thank you very much. Mr. Group Leader has indicated that he accepts the person of the responder. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Thank you very much, and I will give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-30-108	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Indeed, I would like to ask you a specific policy question here, so I accept that the Secretary of State will answer. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State here, after the number war just now, I think we agree that Hungary is experiencing an extremely deep social and economic crisis today, so I think the government can see this and the government recognises it. It can be seen that thousands of families are in an extremely difficult situation. And in such a crisis, it is a fundamental expectation and a legitimate expectation for the Hungarian people to do their job at their best and to use all available means to ensure effective health protection, economic protection, and to help those who are in a difficult situation. What we see is that you have failed them, because the measures have been delayed and insufficient, and what is particularly a huge problem is that even in this difficult situation, in times of crisis, you will not let go of gigantic investments, such as gigantic investments that have no guarantee of return. Instead, you have started to impose brutal restrictions, causing direct damage to Hungarian people. When you take a lot of money away from the municipalities, you threaten basic public services, such as public transport, drinking water, kindergarten and nursery care, so they do not damage the municipalities, they damage the people; and with unprofessional decisions, they specifically bring about the future. [[17.00]] Such a sector is a transport policy, which is the victim of both austerity and poor professional choices. It can be seen that in such a crisis, the municipalities have been abandoned to finance local public transport, left to continue to break down, to break down the rural road network. There's still a lot more roads that go wrong every year than you guys are renovating. Ten years ago, almost nothing has been done to improve the railway sidelines supplying the countryside, with which 34 railway sidelines were virtually sentenced to death. And they maintain the thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrade railway project, which is no good for anything other than Chinese great power interests, and it brings 300 billion to Lőrinc Mészáros's companies. Secretary of State, can you accept that in such a crisis, at least this investment must be stopped, and that nearly a thousand billion forints must be used for the benefit of the Hungarian people? Thank you.
u2020-11-30-109	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-11-30-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can't agree with you. You are consistently attacking major infrastructure investments here in Parliament from week to week; investments that provide livelihoods for hundreds and thousands of people in Hungary. Mr President, if you want good for the Hungarian people, you want good for the Hungarian businesses, you want good for the Hungarian economy, you do not attack these investments, but support them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] These investments are necessary, honourable Member. You know that. We are always surprised when a representative who calls himself a Green Party is attacking rail investments. We are always surprised when, in the interest of the European Union, they represent an interest in Hungary in accordance with the Brussels description, but when there is a European railway network, they do not support the development of what is an obligation for Hungary. Mr President, the policy that you are pursuing is incomprehensible and incomprehensible. But let me also draw attention to what we have already spoken about here in Parliament today: the municipalities are always bad under the governance of the left. After 2010, you had to take over 1,400 billion forints of debt thanks to the operation of your principle friends. Now these municipalities have a reserve of HUF 1500 billion. Mr President, may I also draw attention to the fact that you are simply not telling the truth when you say that there are no developments in the countryside. Just take a look around the countryside, honourable Member, and see what results have been achieved in recent years thanks to the Hungarian village programme and many other programmes implemented from domestic and development sources. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-111	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. You have a rejoinder for Mr. Crusade Leader.
u2020-11-30-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You said I was speaking out against investments that work for hundreds, thousands of people. For the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, this year and next year, you will spend as much money as is equivalent to the creation of 175,000 new jobs, according to your calculations. If you claim that the Budapest-Belgrád project will create more than 175 thousand jobs for Hungarians, why not present the documents? You have acted contrary to this, for ten years you have encrypted all documents, contracts and any return guarantee that no one has been able to claim on the part of the government that it exists. You have betrayed the Hungarian people, and this thousand billion HUF could be used for rail development projects supported by returns. I have brought up this serious problem for a reason that you have not made any substantial improvements over the last ten years in order to improve the state of the railway sidelines that are vital for the supply of the countryside. After ten years of rail-destroying and anti-rural policy, you were sentenced to death on 34 railway lines this year, like your Balliberal predecessors. You betray the Hungarian national interests. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-113	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Secretary Schanda.
u2020-11-30-114	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, My request is not to be ridiculed, Mr Group Leader, because when it comes to creating jobs, it can be facilitated by more ways. You regularly recall the job-creating wage support programme, where we have provided the necessary support for all applicants. Mr President, these programmes are complemented by the large infrastructure improvements that you and you are consistently attacking. You know very well that both programmes are needed. But you are not only attacking large investments, but you have not supported, among other things, the payment of job-creating subsidies here in Parliament. Honourable Member, most of the railway has been damaged by left-wing governance, with whom you have made an alliance in recent years, and whom you want to help back into the government. Don't do that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-115	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-11-30-116	I'll take it.
u2020-11-30-117	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2020-11-30-118	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It is quite clear that if an employee has an accident in the course of his work, it is an accident at work; in this case, if the accident did not occur because of his own fault, he complied with all the rules, he is not entitled to the usual 60 per cent of the sick, but, of course, he is entitled to 100 per cent of the sick. We all know that there are now many jobs in the country where workers are exposed to the virus; without the need for completeness, doctors, paramedics, nurses, social workers, but I could continue the line. In principle, by the way, applying to doctors, there is inherently legislation that would allow them to catch the coronal virus when they work and do their job, so that they are entitled to 100 percent of the sick, but the application of the legislation is so complicated that the virus would virtually circle the equator, bypassing the Earth before the specific worker could get his money in the form of 100 percent of the sick money. In the first round, I expect a reply from the Minister that he expected the government to rapidly change legislation in its own jurisdiction, or, if necessary, submit it to the Parliament, so that at this time of the virus situation, in the middle of the epidemic, those who catch the virus while they are doing their job, should be subject to 100 percent of the sick money. In the first round, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-119	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2020-11-30-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The picture of the current situation on your question was not as clear as it otherwise follows from the legislation. So, in fact, two procedures are being conducted today. The 60 per cent of sick money is automatic, and it is determined in a separate procedure, sometimes quickly, sometimes more slowly, that the illness occurred at the workplace, and if so, 60 per cent of sick money increases to 100 per cent. As I said last week after the government meeting, the government intends to change this and to help workers, because while they may have access to 100 percent under the current rules, it is right for health workers, teachers, to assume, in the case of a coronal virus infection, that their illness has occurred in connection with their work and that they can receive 100 percent of the sick money quickly accordingly. The adoption of corresponding legislation is easier and faster in times of exceptional legal order, and I think we can deliver results quickly and in a short time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-121	Thank you very much, Minister Gulyás. Congressman Burány has the opportunity to respond in return. [[17.10]]
u2020-11-30-122	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. The simplest way to cut this Gordian knot is to classify all covid patients at the time of the coronal virus epidemic as receiving a 100% pension. This would be the most humane and simple solution, because there are many families in the country whose salary is barely enough to ensure a monthly livelihood. Losing 40 percent of this puts these families in an impossible position. The simplest and most humane thing for a coronal virus outbreak would be for everyone who gets the Covid infection and gets an employee to receive a 100% pension. And one more thing: if we link this to free and mass testing, that someone with mild symptoms does not think that they have just had a cold, and that wouldn't leave them at home on sick leave to go to free testing, because in this case, the general doctor will not give them a free test, using the two together, we would finally provide concrete help to hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions of people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-30-123	Thank you, Congressman Burány. The Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-11-30-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, In 18,000 places, hundreds of thousands of tests are carried out each week in order to filter out all those in defense or education who are otherwise infected with a coronal virus. I think that the big screening operation that started last week and even last Friday is a success, and the public administration is doing it with good organisation. All counsel is welcome, and the direction of our thinking is similar. The difference is that we are in government now, because when you were in government, during the 2008 economic crisis, sick money was reduced by 10 percent. This is the most important difference I see; otherwise we agree. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-125	Thank you very much, Minister Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Imre Pesti, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. How does false news on the left make defense more difficult? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Mr Imre Pesti to accept the person of the response or to ask the Minister for an answer.
u2020-11-30-126	I'll take it.
u2020-11-30-127	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Pesti.
u2020-11-30-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is clear that in the Hungarian left, disease management is about producing unfounded false news, creating moods and breaking the rules. It also makes me wonder how credible others can be if Lajos Korózs Kamuvideos, among the left-wing politicians, is the best way to lead the Public Welfare Committee on Health. It illustrates their attitude to epidemic management that the Yoga City MSZP is having night parties despite restrictions. They don't care about precautions, they don't think they're subject to the rules. They continue to spread untruths. This weekend, for example, it was claimed that chronically ill medical students were required to participate in national testing. Of course, DK lied again, since no one is obliged by government agencies to participate in the tests. Students' credits are recognised and paid for their work, and adequate protective clothing is provided to everyone. We would also like to thank you from here, from Parliament, for the work you have done during the test. The Hungarian people abide by the restrictions, everyone joins forces in these difficult times. The left doesn't do that. They think it's time to throw a party, lie, panic, and recently attack the vaccine. We know that the vaccine will be the most effective solution against this epidemic. That's what we're all waiting for. The Hungarian government is working to ensure the best possible quality and best available vaccine from as many sources as possible. Only vaccines that are thoroughly tested by the Hungarian authorities and, of course, comply with international standards will be placed on the market. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Even so, George Soros, a friend of the left, decides what to buy. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the left hinders defence and false news about the vaccine. [[The president's ringing again.]] how difficult it is to spread the safe vaccine. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-129	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-30-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not a week that when we gather here in Parliament on Monday and Tuesday, we will not be able to give more and more false news that the left or left-wing press has spread in the previous days. When it comes to the vaccine, when it comes to the issue of the vaccine, when it comes to the risk of the virus, there are cases where the opposition produces more and more false news every week, with fake statistics, fake statistics, kamuvides. There are times when it is said that healthcare workers will have to receive a HUF 500,000 allowance per person, sometimes they say that Hungary does not negotiate with European or American vaccine manufacturers, only with Chinese and Russians; every week they say some false news. Why is this so irresponsible of the opposition? Because their work does not help the defense week after week, but hinders the confidence that doctors, health workers, pharmacists and epidemiological experts really make good decisions. Perhaps the simplest thing you have said, honourable Member, is about the vaccine. If it is said from week to week that it is not good, it is not good, it is such and they are spreading false news about it, the momentous politician tells us that we will inoculate 133 Fidesz-KDNP representatives, right, and if it does not work well, it is good for them, if it works well, it is good for them; so if they talk about these important issues at this level in the epidemic, then some people or they will think that the vaccine itself is not suitable to protect it from the epidemic, and that is why they will not be given in, or they will think that the epidemic is not so dangerous if it is used for different political purposes, or if Facebook posts are thought to be humorous. So every such step by the opposition, which is attacking the defence, which is spreading untruths, is risking the effectiveness of defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Pesti Imre has a one-minute chance.
u2020-11-30-132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is well known that there are three technologies in the world at present, or are widespread, that can be used to produce a vaccine. It is safe to say that these technologies are close to identical and can produce a vaccine of the same quality. It is all the more strange and surprising that George Soros from America wants to decide which vaccine to choose, although according to the profession there is no significant difference between these vaccines. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that the government will choose a vaccine primarily on the basis of professional considerations, not on the basis of political considerations. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-133	Thank you very much, Congressman Pesti. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To think that there is a known left-wing, epidemic-related video that is not a Kamuvideo, we really can't say anything that we know, but it doesn't contain false news, it doesn't contain false news. When János Bencsik, opposition representative, left-wing representative, went to one of the hospitals and showed that these are the protective equipment that are unfit to protect doctors and nurses from infection, the virus, it turned out that they are not medical, not nursing, but visiting protective equipment. When Athina Németh and Lajos Korózs Chamuvideo made her kamuvideo shoot, it was also built on unrealities. When Bernadett Szél presented to the ZDF that he was taking the masks out to health institutions, because in Hungary there are only 8 million masks, while there were already 80 million masks at the time, so it was exactly ten times the size of a chauvideo. What we know from the opposition as an epidemic video is a hundred percent kamuvideo. So much for the opposition. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:, Will there be enough vaccine available for free vaccination against the Crown Virus? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Menczer has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. [[17.20]] I'm gonna ask the congressman if he's gonna accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor.
u2020-11-30-136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of 2020, we had no idea that we were going to have to deal with a global epidemic this year, with the superhuman performance of doctors, nurses and health workers, and we would need it to save as many lives as possible from the epidemic. It is extremely important that everyone adheres to the emergency rules imposed by the government, especially masking and keeping distance, so that we can protect older people from the epidemic, to whom the virus poses a greater threat based on the data so far. The spread of the coronal virus epidemic has not stopped, and only a safe, non-complicated vaccine can provide a reassuring solution to combat the epidemic. According to experts, there are about ten vaccines licensed worldwide, from drug research institutes in American, Chinese, Russian, Israeli or other countries that can provide adequate protection against the virus. We understand that we have negotiated with all countries where the development of vaccines is promising. It is not a political issue, but a health issue, that if the vaccine is prepared somewhere earlier, Hungary should order from there as well. Today, the scale of costs and the work on purchasing are secondary, as we are in competition with time. Now we have to work to get our country a vaccine as quickly as possible with proper health care. Pfizer informed the Hungarian Government that it is in good shape with the third authorisation phase, but in the first place it delivers to the United States and rather redirects half of the contract advance. This proves that it is important for Hungary to take into account all possible sources of vaccine. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how many vaccines have been held during the negotiations and that there will be enough vaccine available for free vaccination against the coronal virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-137	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-11-30-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the case of vaccines, there is also the rule that is said to be the sure thing that has happened. Indeed, there are three things we can say. One is that this is not a political issue, but a health issue, as you mentioned. The second is that where there will be an effective vaccine, or wherever, we will do everything we can to bring it to Hungary as quickly and as much as possible. The third and perhaps most important is that all decisions are made by Hungarian professionals. We are part of all EU projects and we have committed 12 million doses of vaccine here. There are three projects, Janssen, Pfizer and AstraZeneca. There is no doubt that, as you have mentioned, the American producer Pfizer can be heard with credible information that, if they find the antidote and get a license to use it, the first shipments will be delivered only to the United States of America. We do not know how this is going to happen, but this is definitely a signal that needs to be taken into account, and this shows that, in addition to European projects, we also need to monitor Eastern processes, especially Chinese and Russian processes. Last Friday, the Russian Minister of Health negotiated with Minister Szijjártó here in Budapest, and in addition to the fact that we received a Russian vaccine sample as the first European country, we now have the opportunity this week to allow Hungarian professionals to travel to Russia and monitor the conditions of production on the production base. At China, we are related to three producers, two private producers and one state-owned producer, as far as we know at present. There are ongoing negotiations here, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-139	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Menczer. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász is responsible for the rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-140	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. We all see and feel that the vaccine is the real weapon in defense of the Crown Virus, who wins the vaccine, gets life. Perhaps the vaccine will save the life of one of our loved ones. Thank you very much for your work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-141	Thank you, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary Menczer.
u2020-11-30-142	Thank you very much for the foregoing, and I would like to add so much of what the Member said, which is important on the one hand, and I did not have time to sign the non-disclosure agreement with the State producer in relation to China. Here we are waiting for the documentation from the manufacturer, as there is a strict authorisation procedure for vaccine in Hungary. This looks quite briefly and in front of my name there is no doctor, and I am not an expert in the area, but I have learned a lot from those who know how to do it in the past. So the point is that after signing the declarations of cooperation and confidentiality, the manufacturer prepares a dossier based on the requests of the Hungarian National Institute of Pharmacy and the National Centre for Public Health, this documentation is compiled and handed over by the manufacturer, Chinese manufacturer, and then the dialogue between professionals begins, continues more precisely, and if this is appropriate, then examine the specific ampoules and the documentation related to them. So we're on a strict schedule, trying to move as fast as we can. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-143	Thank you, Secretary of State Menczer. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do they make Hungarian Health pay? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister, due to his absence, Mr. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-11-30-144	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, I accept.
u2020-11-30-145	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Székely.
u2020-11-30-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, In this House, a law on doctors and health professionals and hospital workers has recently been passed, in which, although there are some things that are truly forward-looking, unfortunately, this law leads to a large number of doctors and many, many nurses planning to leave the field. I understand that Mr.Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, has adopted the President of the Medical Chamber, Gyula Kincses, as his advisor during the preparations, although the Chambers are not obliged to deal with remuneration towards governments, and the health trade unions have been almost completely excluded from the negotiation process. Given the confusion of the situation, and the very brief decision-making time, since this law was pushed through the House in a day or two, I did not give my name to this law. Of course, I am aware of how difficult it is for a Member to vote against a law with a wage increase, but I think that in this case the House would have done better if it had voted 'no', because with this law everyone will lose, both sick and doctor. We risk that in the future, citizens will only get normal treatment if they pay for it in the market, as many Hungarian doctors and many nurses are expected to go into private practice, go abroad or leave the field. All in all, you are making the entire Hungarian health care pay in the long run by communicating a fake salary increase, and in the short term, you are endangering the life of the country's population in the middle of the epidemic. So I ask you how you plan to withdraw the law on the status of doctors and workers and when you want to deal with the real problems of Hungarian health care and the health care of Hungarian people. Thank you for your answer.
u2020-11-30-147	Thank you, Congressman Székely. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2020-11-30-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, When I looked at the title of the question, I thought that the House did not make an administrative error, and an immediate question submitted in 2008 is now taking place, because why do they make Hungarian Health pay? Under the government of the current President of the Democratic Coalition, on whose party list you would have come to Parliament a reasoned and correct question. So the answer to your question is that we don't, so I can't talk about motivation, because our attitude towards paying health care is negative. I can also say that a rare political consensus was reached when the health law was adopted. If I remember correctly, the congressman was the only one who voted no. So everyone else, including opposition representatives, I do not know if there was one or two abstentions, but essentially all the factions supported this bill. It is also believed to have supported it because it was not only a political consensus, but it was preceded by a professional consensus. Indeed, with regard to the elimination of gratuity money and wage increases, we have accepted the proposal of the Medical Chamber, the most bloody, and the largest increase. [[17 .30]] I think this is a major step forward, the biggest progress that has been made in health care over the last 30 years. The debate on the detailed regulation of the medical relationship seems to be successfully closed, and everyone has been given adequate guarantees that there will be no negative consequences of the adoption of a legal relationship or the establishment of a new legal relationship, as can be heard in the press or from the words of some opposition representatives. What I can tell you is that we are confident that this historic increase in salaries will help doctors not to go out and leave Hungary, but to come home, so that the process that was natural under the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány should turn back. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-149	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. Congressman Székely has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-11-30-150	Yes, thank you. Secretary of State, that was another law where I voted alone. 33 opposition representatives did not vote for this law because we weren't in the room, we refused to be here. [[Gergely Gulyás: Sorry!]] To be honest, there will be no payback, but there will be no pay, because there will be nowhere to go, there will be no public health care, because you have already had to make a government decree banning the workers, nurses, from quitting, because they know exactly what is about to happen among nurses who do not want to sign this law, because it is extremely detrimental to them when... don't look at me like that, sir. I spoke to a health union leader three days ago, so I think I don't get this from the air, and you know exactly what's going on. You have forbidden them to resign, making them practically wage slaves now, because you know exactly what will happen after the epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-151	Thank you, Congressman Székely. You have the opportunity to answer back, Minister Gulyás.
u2020-11-30-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Don't be mad at me for looking at you in your answer. What is certainly interesting is that you are visualizing the collapse of health care at a time when no one, not even the opposition, has ever debated, has ever seen an increase in medical wages, and when, since the change of regime, this is perhaps the eighth parliamentary term, it has never been disputed by anyone during a parliamentary four-year legislative period that there has never been a 72 percent increase in nursing wages. Of course, I am still willing to accept that there is still room for a significantly higher nurse's salary, we can see the incredible struggle between doctors and nurses now to control the spread of the virus and to cure those who have been hospitalized. They have all the respect, but in fact, in comparison with any other government, no one has raised nursing or medical wages to the same extent as the current government coalition since the change of regime. I ask you to respect this, and finally to accept that we can only take into account the votes of those who take part in a vote. The proposal was supported by representatives of all the political groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-153	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Where is the money, Minister? It's an address. Because of Mr. Miniszer's absence, Mr. András Tállai granted the right to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-30-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Just ten years ago, Fidesz-KDNP liquidated private pension funds in Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I thought democracy!]] This was done in two months, in November and December 2010. Even at the beginning of 2010, Fidesz called the institution of private pension funds a value to be protected, which was obviously what his programme was about, and then, six months after the government was founded, the opinion changed completely: Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that private pension funds were not needed, and in Brussels he said that the pension system will become two-pillar in Hungary. There were three examples of what the government should achieve in this respect: it was the most drastic example of Argentina, there in 2008 the private pension register was nationalised at 100%; then the two was the finer method, encouraging members to return voluntarily to the public system; and the three was to put the private pension funds into a public fund and to manage the savings of individual citizens in a separate account. In autumn 2010, there were over three million members of private pension funds in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For mandatory private pension funds!]] And what a large sum it was: 3000 billion forints, that was the stakes. This was done under the Act of 25 October 2010: withdrawal of contributions from private pension funds, then opening up the possibility of withdrawal, but since this did not lead to a result, there was no mass withdrawal, so it was envisaged that anyone who did not go back to the state system by 31 December would be deprived of the possibility of a state pension. As a result, 97 percent of the stakeholders decided to withdraw, resulting in a return of HUF 3000 billion to the state register, which has not yet been accounted for. Where's the personal pension fund's assets? Where's the money, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-155	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-11-30-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your information on what happened ten years ago, but you did not continue to do so. You mentioned this particular law, it's CLIV. The Act concerns the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund, which was established by the Parliament to manage the assets of the members of the treasury from private pension funds to the public system. The main declared purpose of the fund was to reduce the public debt, which it did, as the provisions of the relevant law required that the proceeds from the sale of assets forming the assets of the fund be paid into the budget or used to reduce the public debt. In addition, the government debt reduction will also be achieved through the involvement of the Hungarian sovereign debt taken over. During its operation, you also mentioned this amount of HUF 3000 billion received by the Fund, using cash, sovereign debt and other securities, with a direct debt reduction of more than HUF 2000 billion. In addition, the fund paid nearly HUF 500 billion into the budget, and the total debt was reduced by HUF 2500 billion. The fund therefore met the debt reduction target and, in fact, achieved more than HUF 280 billion in interest savings for the State. Overall, this amounted to a debt reduction of almost 10 percentage points. And let us not forget that in 2010 the Fidesz-KDNP government took over the state register by more than 80% of GDP, with so many loans [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which was handed over by the Socialist-Free Democratic Government in 2010. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Csaba Gyüre.
u2020-11-30-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State said that 2000 billion went to direct debt reduction and 500 billion went to the budget, but we did not see the fate of 500 billion forints. In this respect, even the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry has been made, which has not really been implemented. We find that this money has failed to account for where it went. What is very important is how damaging this step has been. We see that the role of self-care is extremely important, as the population is losing weight, the average age is increasing, the proportion of pensioners is increasing, the number of active contributors is decreasing due to emigration, and this results in fewer and fewer people becoming contributors and more and more people becoming pensioners. With this step, you have shaken people's confidence in private pension savings. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Mandatory private pension! Say it completely.]]
u2020-11-30-159	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Tállai.
u2020-11-30-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I do not understand what this rejoinder was now referring to, what the congressman was criticizing. [[17.40]] So the people chose 97 percent of you said they'd leave their money to the state and expect their pension from the state. This decision must be adopted even if you do not like it even after ten years. And by the way, the fact that the government didn't account for this money is impossible, that's not true. It is not true because there was a report in 2010 and a budget before Parliament. There was a 2011 account, a report before Parliament. As the Parliament discusses each year, then accepts these accounts, reports, in the same cases in which the government has accounted for them, was involved, so you could also examine them, verify and verify them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and they could vote to accept it or not to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-161	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why are the authorities in charge of the fight against the epidemic being sabotaged? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár nodds.]] Mr Zsolt Molnár has the floor.
u2020-11-30-162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, in the face of the virus, the authorities are at the forefront of the defense, and in many cases the municipalities are fighting against voluntary testing by themselves, by strengthening the social network, by providing assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises, by purchasing assets, and we find that you consider the municipalities not as partners, but rather as opponents. In your political culture, the autonomy of the local governments doesn't fit in any way. The question should be asked where this road leads, and where the question of free parking leads, which has failed in the spring, since there was traffic chaos, traffic jams, various downtown scenes that quote chaos, increased air pollution; however, for the second time this autumn they started this plan; even if opening up parking houses means some innovation, free parking in the city itself is much more problematic. And the argument is used because the Prime Minister of Hungary or the State Secretary in charge of the Prime Minister's Office said that the protection of health, the reduction of contacts in public transport, the protection of human life and the granting of benefits to people with cars will certainly bring this matter forward. I'm asking if you'd like to review it based on experience. Do you listen to downtown couriers, paramedics, taxi drivers, or those travelling there, and wish to change this practice, or do you insist on thinking that it is on the one hand that local governments should be sabotaged, and on the other hand that free parking is on the other hand that drives the protection against the epidemic forward? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-11-30-163	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda to answer.
u2020-11-30-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me, above all, to thank all those who are on the front line, health care workers, nurses, medical students who are all struggling hard. And allow me to thank the mayors, council leaders and representatives who act and do their best for the benefit of the population, not constantly complaining and busy making Facebook posts. Honourable Congressman, We're both from the local government, from one place, the II. from the district, so allow me to draw your attention a little sad, but this is the case, Mr honourable Member, a bit backward when someone from the Socialist Party is speaking for the sake of the local government, because you, the MSZP, were the one who embellished the local government world, and you and I know it very well. Honourable Congressman, I also know that amnesia is becoming a general symptom on the left. They forget what happened earlier, but let me draw attention to the fact that the civil-national government had to take over HUF 1400 billion in debt from the municipalities. Honourable Congressman, We now see that left-wing authorities also want to deal with the control of the epidemic by raising taxes and placing additional burdens on businesses and citizens. And while we understand that anyone who encounters difficulties in searching for parking spaces because he cannot find it quickly enough can be annoying, but believe me, honourable Member, that this is still better and safer. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This also contributes to keeping a proper distance from one another. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-165	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Congressman Zsolt Molnár has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He just made the point: you believe that keeping away and that instead of using public transport, the use of the car is a good thing. Then I'd like to ask with respect that people who go to work on MÁV, Volán or other long-distance flights because there are people like that, we don't just talk about city workers, why their lives are worth less. Why is their safety less valuable? Doesn't it matter if there's a crowded public transport on a Volan bus or an MÁV bus? We therefore propose, and even ask you, and I would also ask you, Secretary of State, to do so, so that motorways can be used free of charge for the period during which parking is free, as many of our countrymen are otherwise on long-distance buses or trains. It would be a great relief for them if the motorways became free of charge. They could use their cars cheaper, they wouldn't have to pay for the freeway sticker, and if we add the simple fact that there will be less contact on different flights, then this is a welcome thing. Please support the Hungarian government. Tell me when you're gonna be introduced, when you're gonna make motorway use free of charge.
u2020-11-30-167	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. The rejoinder also applies to Secretary of State Schanda.
u2020-11-30-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I do not really understand that you agree that driving by car can also reduce the risks of the epidemic and help to keep away, but if you are unsure, allow me to draw attention to the fact that when you arrive to work by car, it is safer not only for the person who is in the vehicle, but also for the person who is in the vehicle, but also for the burden of community transport. So in this way, it also provides a safer way of getting to those traveling. That is why we have asked the municipalities to increase the density of the flights, and that is why we are also taking the necessary measures for congestion in the case of public transport. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-169	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Csaba Dömötör was entitled to reply. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor.
u2020-11-30-170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to ask you a little bit about concessions. What's a concession? The concession is when the State transfers its own exclusive right to someone else, which is otherwise a profitable activity, and someone else will carry out this activity in such a way that the State derives a significant benefit from it. For example, it is typically the concession of the money-winning machines, but you consider the concession itself to be a money-winning machine, because these concessions have been won by businessmen close to you, NER, in recent years, and they benefit in a series, not by the state. On a regular basis, these entrepreneurs earn more revenue than the state itself. I give examples: there is the National Tobacco Supply Ltd., which, since its establishment in 2015, has been known to be its exclusive supplier of tobacco products to all the tobacco companies in the country, which you nationalised, no, during these four years has paid its owners 14 billion HUF dividends, who are close to your world, Fidesz, a total of 2 billion as a concession fee only to the state. [[17.50]] Obviously, it was worth seven times as much to them as to the state that gave them this concession. But I could say the casinos, starting with the fact that online cash registers were only placed on the table years later than the simplest convenience store cash registers. We still don't know that it's okay there. Or the gambling industry was relieved of public burdens in the spring, during the first wave, and now, when the theatres, cinemas, restaurants are closed, the casinos can still function. Obviously, the spin of the roulette wheel will scare off the most determined virus. I ask Mr Secretary of State why there was a need for a National Concession Office to be set up in the Ministry. Why wasn't the Treasury Department willing to do this? Why did you have this area? Thank you.
u2020-11-30-171	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-11-30-172	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, As far as casinos are concerned, I would like to state here that they are legally regarded as business, and accordingly they are subject to the same rules as all other businesses, and they must also close at 7 p.m. and, of course, all epidemiological regulations, such as masking, must be complied with in the same way. As far as concessions are concerned, it is, of course, in this situation that it is necessary to examine where they should be involved. What is the big difference between the attitude and approach of the current government and yours is that, if a concession is to be made, the responsibility and risk must be borne by the businesses concerned, as opposed to your period, when the Hungarian taxpayers have always drawn the short straw. So, in the current situation, it is important to see that concessions in some areas can be operational in particular in the field of infrastructure development. So what we have to look at now is what, when the fight against the epidemic affects a large part of economic resources, of the planned developments that can also be implemented in concessions. One thing I can say for sure: when the government takes economic decisions and this concerns all ministries, it will always be about protecting jobs. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-173	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-174	Thank you very much. Secretary of State claims that the same rules apply to casinos. Well, either you haven't been to a casino or you haven't been to any of the authorities to check how the casinos work. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then he is there, then.]] 'Cause I'm telling you, they're open till dawn. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Like MSZP offices.]] There's a lot of press out there, but you're welcome to let me check, and you're gonna see this. Secondly, it talks about the fact that entrepreneurs bear the significant risks for these concessions. What is the risk of being destroyed and making the exclusive monopoly of a given kft binding in its entirety as a supplier? What kind of risk does this company take? Of course, he doesn't take any risks. On the other hand, I'm telling you, he's pocketing billions. Finally, this is all about thinking with this National Concession Bureau about speeding up those concessions and putting entrepreneurs close to you in position before the elections. I would like to tell Mr Secretary of State that you do not think that an opposition-winning coalition will leave these contracts; that we will not break them, that we will not prosecute them, that we will not withdraw them all. That's what I want you to do. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-175	Thank you very much, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski. You have the opportunity to respond back to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-11-30-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you're accusing me of not going to the casino, then you're right. Nevertheless, all Hungarian businesses must comply with the rules. As far as the attitude and results of the two governments are concerned, let me mention the motorway construction concession, where the motorways, as you concluded the contract, were not owned by Hungary. And the concession fee for motorways built in previous PPP programmes is HUF 114-117 billion per year, and these contracts run until 2031 and 2038. So if anyone would like to terminate contracts, that's exactly what this government is doing with your concession contracts. The State cannot withdraw from these contracts and the use of M5 and M6 has to be paid annually for another 20 years. And if I look at it from the outcome, there is a huge difference: during your period, the size of state wealth has decreased, and during the current administration, it has increased by several thousand billion forints. Thank you for listening. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Motim!]]
u2020-11-30-177	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "Why doesn't the government do anything about the poverty of the elderly? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2020-11-30-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, you are aware that according to the latest data from the KSH, 72,000 pensioners have slipped into poverty in Hungary in one year and hundreds of thousands in the last ten years. You are not telling the truth when you claim that the situation of pensioners has improved since 2010. No, it didn't improve, on the contrary, it kept getting worse. You are very proud of GDP growth, but we know that only one forint has not reached the rise of pensions. And don't mention the premium pension, Mr. Secretary, because it didn't increase pensions, they got it, but the amount of pension remained unchanged. Currently, nearly 70,000 people live from less than 50,000 forints a month. If I were to indicate the size of the amount, it might be as much as you can buy a pair of shoes. This year, in 2020, 600,000 older people receive less than HUF 100,000, while the price of food has risen dramatically, the fruit has more than 30 percent over a year. During the first wave of the plague, families lived up to their reserves, resulting in their lack of support for their parents or grandparents. It's a tragedy! There's an epidemic. Old people have a very difficult Christmas ahead of them in every way. Mr. Secretary, don't play with the lives of the elderly, they deserve a decent living. If you help me fast, you'll help me twice. Therefore, LMP asks the government to pay the 13th month's pension before Christmas. So I have one question for the Secretary of State: will the government consider and accept this proposal?
u2020-11-30-179	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-11-30-180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also read this privatbankar.hu article. I'll tell you what the trick is. The trick is that this article really compares pensions to income based on KSH data. The life of pensioners is not determined by how their pensions are adjusted to the income of those who are otherwise earners at work, because if you look at it that way, of course, you are right on the basis of the numbers. Do you know how to look? It must be seen how a pensioner can make a living, how much his pension increases, and how much he can buy goods and services. How is it that in the last ten years, between 2011 and 2020, pensions have increased by 39,6 percent, due to low inflation, their purchasing value has increased by 10 percent over the last nine years? ! It wasn't the pensioners who were poor, it was the other way around, they had more money, they could spend more on their lives, on their existence. The same number for allies sitting next to you, at the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, is down 10 percent. If you say this speech before 2010 with Ferenc Gyurcsány sitting there, all your words are probably true. But it's not fair and true, it's not about income, it's about the pension itself, it's about how much it's growing, and it's about the value of the customer. Fidesz said that it preserves the purchasing value of pensions. He did that every year. It is not true that pensioners are characterised by poverty. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2020-11-30-181	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2020-11-30-182	Mr. Secretary, that answer is simply a disgrace. So you have no idea what the prices are. I don't know if you sometimes go to the market, send your wife shopping, because then you'd know what it costs, what a kilo of fruit costs, what a kilo of apple costs. What can you buy from 50,000 or 100,000 forints a month? Technically, nothing. Obviously, it is a shame that you compare it to, say, the salary of Members. We get a lot of requests from small pensioners who can't pay the rent, who don't get fruit on the table in the middle of the month. You're delirious! The minimum pension has not been increased for ten years, 28 500 HUF. Do you know what that's enough for? You'll get ten toothpastes for it. Well, that'll feed the pensioners. So we should think about it. Yeah, that's true. Indeed, it is because the wages of the active earners have gone because you did not care about the pensioners. It is a fact that incomes have risen in recent years, but pensions have not kept up with this. It's simply unacceptable, it's a shame! [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-183	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. A one-minute rejoinder shall also be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2020-11-30-184	Thank you very much. I am stunned by Mrs. Congresswoman's anger, this is an experienced Member. Once you have a problem with prices, you have a problem with the price of vegetables, once you have a problem with the poverty of the pensioner. You don't know, either. They just told him that you have to say that pensioners live worse, and that's it. [[Bence of Turdai: Shame, shame! Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is not Fidesz!]] Reality, by the way... sit next to her, sit by her. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do not give advice. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-11-30-185	Go on, Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State, continue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't give me advice!]]
u2020-11-30-186	Again? [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Don't miss the genre! András Tállai's name.]] Thank you very much. I can tell you that in 2020 the January pension increase was 2.8 percent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What do you think you are? Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] Based on monthly data from 1 to 8 months, the expected rate of the pensioner consumer price index is 4 percent, and pensioners receive their pension supplement in November. [[Intercoms from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] So this year, Fidesz is also fulfilling what it has undertaken to preserve its value for pensions, even if LMP and Jobbik are colliding and will be on a list. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks. Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-30-187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, [[András Tállai: Don't shout! Who are you to yell? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Take it easy! András Tállai: Is it because I dare to tell you back? Who are you?]] Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, notary wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What's going on? It's an address. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The flu vaccine doesn't get to those, and you yelled at him that it was a lie! The president's ringing the bell.]] Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda.
u2020-11-30-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. In the days Szilárd Demeter published an outrageous, vile, infinitely evil article: he identified the perhaps greatest crime of humanity, the Holocaust, the planned systematic killing of six million of our fellow citizens with a debate about not wanting to allow Viktor Orbán and Fidesz to continue to steal. This clearly indicates that the leader of the fidesz culturkampf has lost not only his sense of proportion, not only his moral sense, but also his common sense. Relativity of the Holocaust is Nazi talk. Szilárd Demeter's article is a Nazi text. Szilárd Demeter is the Minister for the Fidesz Government, the museum director appointed by Fidesz, the general general general of the Kulturkampf announced by the President of Fidesz, and the builder of the Fidesz literary power center. As a fist of the state party in the exclusive possession of power, he still tries to be a victim, and he compared himself, himself, directly to the victims of the Holocaust. And then we didn't talk about the fact that he did it in the name of the Hungarians, in violation not only of the memory of the Holocaust, but of all Hungarian people. Secretary of State, Szilárd Demeter, in your government, in your ministry, Minister, you have appointed him to all state positions and positions. It is also your responsibility to remove him from public life. It's your responsibility to protect the indefensible and to fire Szilárd Demeter. Mr. Secretary, how much longer can Szilárd Demeter represent the Fidesz government? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-189	Thank you, Congressman Bence Tordai, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-30-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, As you know, honourable Member, the director of the Petőfi Literature Museum withdrew his writing and even deleted his Facebook page. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: So that's it?]] He also wrote that what he wrote could damage the memory of the victims. And we would ask you, left-wing Members, to measure with the same standards in the case of László Bíró, Márton Gyöngyösi, as you are measuring now. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-30-191	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the opportunity to rejoin notary Bence Tordai.
u2020-11-30-192	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, that's a thin answer, so you didn't undo the article that you've shaped long enough, and which, by the way, the Fidesz Origo has published nicely. He shamed not only himself, not only the Fidesz, but also the Petőfi Literary Museum, where excellent museumologists and professionals work, who deserve a worthy president. Since 2010, the Fidesz government has said in every relevant conference, declaration and interview that there is zero tolerance to anti-Semitism. If they leave Szilárd Demeter in position, they'll have zero credibility about anti-Semitism. I don't know which Rétvári Bencé I'm talking to, by the way. He said at a Holocaust conference in 2004, that many people had lived from hatred before, and there must still be many who want to live from it, or with Bence Rétvári, who in 2019 inaugurated the statue of a famous anti-Semitic Catholic priest, Gyula Kornis, who wrote such things as that his innate radicalism and utilitarianism with his race had disturbed the spirit of Hungarianism during a half a century, spoke of his fellow Jews as a foreign race. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Which Rétvári Bencé am I talking to now?
u2020-11-30-193	Thank you very much, Congressman Bence Tordai, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-30-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, The Hungarian government is working to make all our Jewish countrymen feel safe here in Hungary. I think we can say that Hungary is one of the safer countries for Judaism in Europe, and we will continue to strive to make all our Jewish countrymen feel safe. And we try to preserve the memory of the Holocaust, both with the instruments of the Criminal Code and with all other means, as part of the National Basics Plan, and as part of our common national history as a great disaster. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-30-195	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of State at the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2020-11-30-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm sorry not everyone's waiting for the case against the capital. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I will wait.]] Secretary of State, Budapest has had Balliberal leadership for a year. They promised us transparency, but unfortunately we got what we could expect from your Demszky rides: misfortune in the city's management and suspicious business affairs. Here's the case of BKV's bus rental that's getting worse and worse with corruption. What do we know about this? The bus rental application was won by a company that was founded seven days before the tender, and of course does not have any reference in the rental of buses, and as it turns out, can't even deliver buses on time. Let's call it a bullshit; it's like reading old newspaper articles of the Hagyó era. But if it weren't suspicious enough, and as the capital put it, everything actually happens in accordance with the law, the company's ownership background quickly destroys all our doubts. The winning company is backed by an offshore company in Cyprus, whose owner is obviously connected to one of the deputy mayors. It seems that the spirit of the Demszky-Legyó period, the musty and purged period has finally returned to Budapest. There is a company with offshore background, a few days before the application, which can be linked to the capital leadership, and of course never dealt with what it applied for, and it suddenly wins. [[18.10]] Is there really such a coincidence? Of course, the people of Budapest do not have to answer that, because they know the answer, but Gergely Christmas should answer it, and she should stand up to the public after an examination of what happened in this tender. I ask the Secretary of State how a company with offshore background can get hundreds of millions in Budapest. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-11-30-197	Thank you, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-11-30-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Well, maybe you shouldn't ask me how to get one of these, but I can tell you the facts of what's happened in the capital. Naturally, BKV's supervisory board will launch an investigation into what you mentioned about the fact that offshore company won the bus tender that was announced, and interestingly, it was given to a company that had an offshore background in Cyprus, and how it could receive HUF 342 million and 720 thousand through BKV, how it could have come to this point, while the procedure only allowed a company with a turnover of HUF 160 million in the last three business years to run, and this was not fulfilled, and it also raises the question of how this company could actually receive it, while it turned out that at the premises of the loser candidate the buses with which it won the first place, so this is also a wonderful thing. And yet, on top of all that, the big question is that this bullshit asked for an extension, saying that because of the problems caused by the corona virus epidemic, he could not rent the buses in time. Honourable Congressman, It was awarded and won by a company that was founded seven days before the tender expired. Gergely Christmas promised great cleanliness in this city, Gergely Christmas in the area of transport and promised order in all areas of this city. Barely a year has passed since the Mayor, it is clear that he will return at the Demszky, return at the Hagyó era, return to the time when there are only the muggings and the biggest troubles in the capital, and then in the next minute I will even discuss it. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-199	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry.
u2020-11-30-200	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, a significant part of Budapesters are beginning to accept the fact that the last year can be described in the capital as complaining instead of working, clumsiness in large investments, but unfortunately now it can be said that, contrary to the promise of transparency, as you said, the old dogs are coming back. But I do not want to see the picture of only Gergely Christmas being held responsible here, there are many other Balliberal leaders in the capital, and there are people sitting on the board of the BKV or its supervisory board who needed to know about this, such as a XVI. District rep sitting in it, Gábor Nemes. We're curious how they can or how they want to cover for or not cover for cases like this. We have to stop it, I think, in the name of all Budapesters, that this old bad habit really should return to Budapest. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that friends are getting their business out of jail with squatting. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-201	Thank you very much, Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-11-30-202	Honourable Congressman, Indeed, if I may say so, they are making good progress in the direction that, unfortunately, the country had already experienced in the Demszky era, when one of the European Union's biggest corruption cases was the metro for Siemens wagons and other purchases, in which OLAF is still investigating. And unfortunately, I have to say that what you say is also absolutely true, it is full-scale, but despite the government's support for the current leadership in the capital: 73 trams, 57 trolleybuses, 848 buses, 74 suburban trains, 103 suburban trains, even though we decided that by connecting HÉV and MÁV, 54 new, modern, air-conditioned, low-floor HÉV trains could be acquired, the capital will not respond to them, but clearly deals with such corruption issues. I think what they're doing is a life threat because they're doing it against the people of the capital. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for the suggestion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-203	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Bence Rétvári, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Minister of State, wishes to ask the Minister of State immediately:. How many families would you put in a difficult situation if the left led by Ferenc Gyurcsány really abolished equal funding for church education, social and health institutions? In response to the Minister's absence, Orbán... [[On the mark of Miklós Soltesz:]] Soltes... [[Miklós Soltesz nodds.]] Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, is entitled. You have the floor, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-11-30-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For many, it is a terrifying vision that Ferenc Gyurcsány outlined at DK's events a few years ago as DK 16 points, namely, that he would cancel the Vatican contract and terminate his religious support, that he would not refer a penny of religious support to the churches. What's the Vatican contract about? The Vatican Treaty is not a mystical medieval document, but a completely modern document, which technically settles the question that church schools, church social institutions, health institutions operate in accordance with the principle of equal funding, in Hungarian, if a tax-paying Hungarian citizen uses the same public service not in a municipal or state institution, but sends his child to a Catholic, Reformed, Evangelical school, or if he or she is treated in a church hospital or in a church social institution or one of his relatives, then the state pays the same money to the church institution in proportion to the public service that he would pay to a municipal or state institution. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] This is what the Vatican Treaty is about, and this is what the agreements concluded by the Hungarian State with the other churches, the Reformed Church and the Evangelical Church are about. Ferenc Gyurcsány would terminate this Vatican contract, in Hungarian, by giving up the principle of equal funding; he would say that children who study in church schools are second-class, less valuable, patients who are social caregivers who are in church institutions are less important to the state. The first version of the Vatican contract was concluded by Gyula Horn. Even Gyula Horn sought closer cooperation, he sought a more serious partnership with the churches than Ferenc Gyurcsány, who would terminate the Vatican contract that was originally concluded by Gyula Horn, but has since been amended. Dear Secretary of State, How many Hungarian families would be more difficult if the principle of equal financing were to be abolished by Ferenc Gyurcsány [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the left he led in church education and social institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-205	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-11-30-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you said, it was the Prime Minister of a left-wing government, Gyula Horn, who was slowly crying back, who concluded the Vatican contract, who held to this contract, in which, indeed, as you have listed, it does not give extra rights and support, but provides equal funding in public education, in the social field, in the field of health. And the exact figures of how many people Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, the left, Jobbik related to the left, and others would take this away from churches and people, and in what area [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie!]] : 230,000 kindergartens, elementary schools and high schoolers, and of course their teachers, teachers, relatives, parents as well. If you look at the social area and the child protection area, you would be affected by the same magnitude of people, 234 thousand people in basic social care, social specialized care and child protection, and they would take away the support that Ferenc Gyurcsány is now threatening. [[18.20]] He's threatening people with disabilities, psychiatric patients, elderly people, and, of course, their caregivers and nurses. The same is true of higher education institutions, colleges and universities as well, nearly 23,000 students are threatened by Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire left by his desire to terminate this contract. It's totally unacceptable! Another question is that all the signs that he has done in the past and what he is saying now refer to this, because he did so at the time. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] at least reduced subsidies as much as you could. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-207	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State, Congressman.
u2020-11-30-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The left is talking about guaranteeing freedoms, but when he sets out a specific programme, he seems to have no regard for the right to freedom of religion. It is an anti-Christian attack by Ferenc Gyurcsány to reduce the support of institutions below the state level that are ecclesiastical institutions. This clearly degrades religious people into second-rate citizens. As the Secretary of State said, we are talking about at least 400 thousand people directly involved, plus their family members, we can count on parents for a child, we can count on children for a caregiver, we can also talk about teachers and social workers. So the number of people who could be very bad if Ferenc Gyurcsány fulfilled that promise is a million-dollar magnitude. So it seems that not only in words, when Peter Niedermüller spoke about the terrifying formations of white heterosexual Christians, they would put Christians at a disadvantage not only at the level of words, but also at the level of action. Important to All Christian People [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] to always take into account what you can expect from the Hungarian left during the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-209	Thank you very much. State Secretary Miklós Soltész has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-210	Honourable Congressman, I would like to highlight one more area, and this is the area of health, because the churches are doing fantastic work there at this very difficult time, whether it be Catholic, Reformed or Jewish religious hospitals. In all of these hospitals there are about 25,000 inpatient cases per year, involving about 15,000 people and providing 300,000 people per year for outpatient care. They too would be threatened by this decision, this threat. I have to say that, unfortunately, this threat was not only airborne, it was not only invented by someone, but it was proven, on the one hand, when it was governed before 2010, that it was taken away from schools and ecclesiastical social institutions, so it had to be returned after 2010. And this hatred is proven now, because it was now that this ignominious cartoon of the People's Land [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] "The cartoon of the Lord Jesus was raised by the left-wing press, proposed for a medal, and the all-left did not object to it.
u2020-11-30-211	Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-212	This proves what they want. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-213	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. Congressman Gergely Kálló has the floor.
u2020-11-30-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start with a quote. The government will adopt the new national bus strategy at its meeting on Friday, and today we agreed to replace the bus vehicles that are now known on the streets of your city, Dunaújváros, and, if all is true, we will be able to convert them into electric buses or replace them with electric buses.In May 2016, I quote, Mr. This announcement was followed by a government decree that is still in force, 1394/2016, which is VII. It was accepted on the 21st of October, and, I'm telling you, it's still in force. I would like to quote point 4 of this: The Government agrees with the need to exchange the urban bus fleet to call on the Minister of National Economy to examine the possibility of replacing the bus fleet with environmentally friendly, modern electric buses and, on the basis of the investigation, to propose the necessary measures for the replacement of the bus fleet and the purchase of electric buses in accordance with the National Bus Production Action Programme. That's what the government decree says. Man's planning, God's finishing. I know that some promises can't be kept because there's no will behind them, but because circumstances do. It also occurred to the electric buses that we may not be able to plan the filling stations in the city and ensure the conditions for the buses. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the investigation is going, how does the purchase of electric or non-electric buses, promised to us through the programme "Modern Cities"? Thank you for your answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-215	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Kálló. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-11-30-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I trust you don't want to call the government to account for a municipal task in Parliament, because then there are actors talking to each other who have no influence on what's going on in this city. Honourable Congressman, First you have to work in the city, you have to do the job, you have to do the job in Dunaújváros, and then, I think we'll be able to have a meaningful conversation. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that Jobbik has shown many times that as a member of the left-wing rainbow coalition, it does not support the government's climate protection efforts, so I was a little shocked to hear what you said about the greening of transport. Our aim is clearly to lead Hungary in the field of electromobility in the region, taking the lead in its implementation, highlighting from this entire package research and development and innovation in particular, but also the greening of buses. After all, it is an important programme, an important programme that we have decided on in the climate and nature conservation action plan, since from 2022 we will only allow electric buses to be placed on the market in urban transport, the government will spend HUF 36 billion in the framework of the green bus programme for this purpose. The aim is that only zero or low-emission buses can transport passengers in settlements above 25,000 people, and one of the necessary tenders is available from today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-217	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Gergely Kálló.
u2020-11-30-218	Dear Secretary of State, I didn't think we could get a political turn into this subject, but you did, but it doesn't matter. I don't want to put the government on a municipal mission. I don't want any misunderstanding. That's not what I'm talking about. That is why I quoted Viktor Orbán. It was a government promise for Dunaújváros in 2016 to provide either electric buses or an environmentally friendly bus park for the municipality. I didn't say it. You said it. I'm sorry if I'm counting on this, but I'm not asking for the politician, I'm asking for the promise. The other thing is that it is commendable that you say such things as a tender has been opened, but you have not answered one question: Dunaújváros, perhaps when can you get the buses that are defined by a government decree that is still in force? How's the examination going? How's the program going? How's the bus transport in Dunaújváros? And let's start from the modern cities, not from the local government! Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-219	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Kálló. You have the opportunity to respond back to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. [[18.30]]
u2020-11-30-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Securing local transport is a municipal task. Mr. Congressman, for Dunaújváros leaders, the better leaders of Dunaújváros, must also make efforts to develop the city's e-mobility properly. We'll give you all the support you need. You can just go on the government's website, which I've just told you, so much work is really in place for the Dunaújváros betterman, and there you can find the application that's available to you, among other things. Honourable Congressman, I understand that a city administration is only a position for you, but you have to work, you have to act. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It must also be done in substance, and then, by the way, the common goal, because this could be a common goal, so that we can improve the transport of Dunaújváros. Just don't jump away from work, just maybe get into it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question: Mr Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who has the pleasure? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr.Soltész asked the Secretary of State to reply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2020-11-30-222	Thank you very much. Dear House, Gambling Company. a few years ago, he started a playground construction program. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the initiative "Connecting the Game," special playgrounds are created in different parts of the country where disabled and non-disabled children can play together. They created the lottery ticket for Nagy Christmas, from which this programme is financed. This is an extremely noble thought, a good initiative. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same about implementation. The 13 playgrounds built so far by the state company were provided exclusively by Fidesz-led municipalities. Unfortunately, we do not know how the settlements were selected, because the state-owned Gambling Company. refusing to make public the aspects of decisions. I didn't say it was a state-owned company for a reason. If all this happened to a private company, we wouldn't be able to say a word, because the owner can use his money for whatever he wants. In this case, however, it is a public company which cannot decide, on the basis of political bias, to build a playground in pro-government settlements and not in opposition-led places. The fact that a state firm is punishing hundreds of thousands of children because their parents didn't vote for Fidesz is highly objectionable in itself. That's a very bad way to go. Because let's ask the question: what would Szerencségy Zrt. say if parents living in opposition settlements not included in the playground construction programme said that they wouldn't buy more toy tickets from such a fidesz state company? Dear Secretary of State, I hope you can see how dangerous this selection is. That's why I'm asking you: what steps do you intend to take to make Gambling Zrt. should the political bias not become a shadow of its functioning? Will the Minister instruct Szerencségy Zrt. to disclose the criteria for selecting the sites to date? And please don't quote in your reply that these aspects have nothing to do with the fact that all settlements are fidesz, because this is about the same chance as a lottery. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-223	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-11-30-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and After you ask me who's lucky, I'll answer the country. The country is lucky because at the time it was able to prevent almost their last big privatisation plan, and this was none other than Szerencsemény Zrt. You remember, Congresswoman, as you were sitting on the left, you were working with Ferenc Gyurcsány when almost everything was privatized from this country, everything was stolen from this country, everything was given to foreign companies and investors, and the work, the various professional areas were later carried out by Hungarian people in Hungary, and they could have done the work we were talking about. This is what you have done in the water, the sewer, in the various utilities across the country, in Pécs, Budapest and elsewhere, that is what you have done to the energy sector, and so on. And who is lucky in this country, or why is the country lucky now? It's because you don't govern; because at least we were able to recover all the stolen property that you guys played to your buddies or foreign companies; because we were able to cut our bills. And by the way, in answer to your question, although I completely didn't understand this question, how do you think there's a playground and only children on the right are playing on it. What do you mean? When we provide family support, family tax relief, or anything else, do you think that only families on the right hire them all? [[Zoltán Varga: Comprehension!]] Really? Will you give it back to me? Really? Will you give it back, dear Congressman DK? [[Zoltán Varga intervenes.]] They won't give it back. You enjoy taking on the good subsidies, reducing the rent, enjoying everything, and then yelling here about what's wrong with Szerencségy Zrt. Nothing's wrong, Your Honour. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What you're doing is a completely unnecessary thing. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-11-30-226	Thank you very much. I am very disappointed, Mr. Secretary, that what you have said is nothing more than a simple explanation, but you have not answered my question. Then I will ask the specific questions again: what steps would you like to take to make the Gambling Company. should there be no political bias? I mean, I was just saying that only Fidesz municipalities could build a playground. How's that? Will you instruct Szerencségy Zrt. to disclose the criteria for selecting the sites to date? There's no way to know. And please respect me by saying that you are not wrong about my specific question, but by giving concrete answers, because you are answering not only to me, but also to all parents who are rightfully offended as long as you and Szerencsemény Zrt. do. does not clarify the circumstances of the construction of playgrounds. Mr. Secretary, please don't bullshit me. Thank you. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-227	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Mr. Miklós Soltész is the secretary of state.
u2020-11-30-228	Then I'll continue the line. After your specific question was who's lucky, once again, the country. The country is lucky, because you do not govern; you are lucky, because during your regency the country has been brought to a state failure; you are fortunate to the country, because when you were protested against, you have had eyes fired, and you have never protested; you are fortunate to the country, because if you were to govern now, it would not be a reduction in the rent, but rather an introduction, which would have completely destroyed the country. And once again, the country is lucky because you privatized everything, gave your buddies everything, gave everything to foreign friends, and we were able to take these companies back. You would have even done that at the last minute, but you didn't have time for it, they also wanted to privatize the Gambling Company. From now on, your question is completely unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-229	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, That concludes this item. We'll move on to the next one. Discussions are now taking place between the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers should be present in the Chamber, as far as possible. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2019 follows a debate. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/11093 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. [[18.40]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Imre Vejkey, Christian Democratic People's Party! [[To the lodges, while jogging the bell:]] A little quieter there in the box. You have the floor, Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2020-11-30-230	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr Ákos Kozma, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee discussed the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2019 before the parliamentary summer break in 2020 and, with its support, decided to submit the proposal for a decision under discussion. Ladies and Gentlemen, On 4 November 2020, the Parliament held the general debate on the report and the proposal for a resolution in a calm and balanced debate, recognising the thoroughness of the Ombudsman's report in every detail. This is also reflected in the fact that none of the amendments made by its representatives to the proposal for a decision have been submitted. Thus, as chairman of the Judicial Committee which presented the proposal for a decision, I have only the task of discussing the current Commission reports. Here, in the debate on the Commission reports, I thank the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary on the one hand and the Committee on Sustainable Development on the other for its support for the proposal for a decision. On this basis, I would like to ask you to support H/11093 on the adoption of the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates on his activities in 2019. A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-231	Thank you very much, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I would like to inform you that you have 13 minutes 2 seconds to further comment on the debate and to say the closing word. I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the timeframes on the table on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, may be Other Politics.
u2020-11-30-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am also preparing for a short speech as my fellow Member from KDNP. There has indeed been a debate on this proposal, a report, and I would also like to thank Ákos Kozma and his deputies for their work here. Obviously, I am the leader of the LMP faction, so I would like to comment a little bit on the proposals of Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner for the protection of the interests of future generations. You're doing a very important job, Deputy Commissioner. He is taking important initiatives, and it is very important that he also strengthens the work, the responsibility that we need to see in the 21st century. We need to see that one of the most important issues today is environmental destruction and action against climate change, and we need to shape our own lives, economic policy and social policy so that we can meet the goals of sustainability. So I can tell you that, in the past period, we can say that there is a positive shift on this issue here also before the Parliament: a rigid position on which, let us say, the government side denied the extent of this problem at all, we could at least get to the point where we agree with the problem itself at the level of the question, even if there are fundamental and serious differences of opinion between us in terms of the objectives to be set. I appreciate it, however, that we are taking slow steps, but we are going at least to the point in which we are able to engage in substantive debates on this issue. However, I would like to say this in any case for the sake of the Parliamentary Protocol, which we have said many times in various debates, but for the time being we see that the government is taking very small steps. Basically, if we have to take away the balance sheet of the last ten years, we have to say that the institutional system of nature protection has actually been destroyed and we do not see the fundamental economic policy change that we need to be able to meet the conditions of sustainability. In one debate, during the debate on the Economic Commission, it was said by Minister Palkovics, which I agree with, that it is indeed not the environment that must be put to great emphasis, but the change of perspective that will enable us to shape our own processes, economic policy and everything in such a way that we do not fundamentally burden the environment, create a circular economy and, if possible, do not produce waste. Obviously, environmental protection in itself is just an end-of-the-pipe solution. We are going to have a lot of debates with each other, that is for sure, and the most important point of discussion, and I would like to mention this very briefly here, too, with regard to nuclear energy. And if we are talking here about the accounts of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the rights of future generations, then it should also be mentioned briefly that you are investing in a technology based on a technology that is fundamentally unsustainable, and perhaps my fellow Member Peter Hoppál, as Parliamentary Member of Pécs, knows precisely that nuclear energy is not green; and that if we look at the entire life cycle of nuclear energy, from uranium mining to the final disposal of nuclear waste, we can know this exactly as Pécs, then we can say that it involves terrible environmental destruction. The former uranium mining activity, we can see in Kővászőlős' area, has caused environmental damage, environmental damage that can never be recovered, and tens of billions of forints of public money has already been spent on recultivation, and hundreds of millions have to be paid annually to protect Pécs' water base, and this is a never-ending activity. And what I appreciate here is that Congressman Péter Hoppál is already starting to point out that if we are talking about the final disposal of nuclear waste, high-activity waste, then the very strong opinion of Pécs and its region, the population living there, and the opinion of the municipality of Pécs, that no nuclear cemetery can be established near such a large city agglomeration. Mr Erik Bánki, Member of the Council, Mr Csaba Nagy, we are still having late debates, but I also see a positive shift, so I would like to remember that after seven years, Member Peter Hoppál is starting to move in the direction of looking for alternative sites for the treatment of high-activity waste, because this is an activity that we need to solve not only a technical, geological problem, but also a moral problem of how and how dangerous materials can be safely permanently placed for many thousands of years. No definitive solutions have been found anywhere in the world. So what I can say is that I thank you again for the work of Commissioner and his deputies, and for the parts and thoughts that we can and can criticise about the draft report, when the time was right, we basically said so. Overall, that is all I wanted to say in the debate on the Commission's reports, and I very much hope that the government side will show more openness here in the coming months or in the coming years, so that we can already have fruitful debates on sustainability issues, which will end up with meaningful action to protect future generations. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-233	Thank you very much. I just want to say to Mrs Zita Gurmai that there is no possibility of two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2020-11-30-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome the tone of that debate, as did my fellow Member Vejkey; this is also a welcome point in today's public speech, let us remember. Here, the mood of the previous immediate questions was a whole different direction. That debate, I believe, was indeed cultural and good, and I thank all my fellow Members, and of course also the Commissioner and his deputies, as well as their availability at the Commission stage. I think that the tone was cultural, but, by the way, many of my fellow Members and myself have raised very important problems in many areas of life, with which we must do something in the coming years. Let me also remember that this report is an interesting time frame, since most of it is László Székely's privacy I would like to thank you for your work, I think, on behalf of all of us, and we will look forward to it in an exciting way when it comes to data protection (sic!) Commissioner, Mr. Ákos Kozma will report here for a whole year before the Parliament. We are also very curious about the fact that the otherwise new powers, new areas that have not really been brought to you here by our opposition colleagues, I am thinking about even the elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority, how effectively it will be able to act on them. [[18.50]] By the way, we hope that you will be able to act effectively, if that is the case, but we do not agree with the abolition of the authority itself, but we will talk about this later. Once again, I would like to thank László Székely for his work on data protection. the joint work of the Commissioner and his deputies on the report. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-235	Thank you, Congressman László Varga. The next speaker is Congressman Peter Hoppál, Fidesz.
u2020-11-30-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think a report by the Commissioner is a very important and decorated literary genre among the proposals of the Parliament. Therefore, the professional manifestations of the competent committees and of the relevant group speakers accompany the submission of this work, and naturally everyone thanks the work done. This is how we have done our part on the government side, and I can repeat it and underline it in order to thank you for the work you have done. However, as a marginal issue in the parliamentary debates on the subject, we heard here in plenary a few times, on behalf of the Green Party, the motion of Mr Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt, Head of the Group, on the specific issue of Pécs, whether citizens have the opportunity to express themselves properly in relation to the recultivation of a previously very significant mine area and the placement of future spent fuel at nuclear power plants. This can take place decades or decades from now, and it is important that citizens have a way of manifesting themselves. I think this is a very relevant point, and it is indeed necessary for citizens' opinions to be well articulated. In addition, there is, of course, a national interest, as Hungary also has obligations under an international treaty. This includes the disposal of the long-term waste of our own energy. So this is a national obligation, a state obligation, and in this, I think the government is doing well, which took over a baton in 2010, by the way, from the previous left-wing government, that it does look for the place. People really need to listen to their views on the issue of long-term placement, to listen to the fact that, given the appropriate information about the risks that such long-term placement may pose, in full knowledge of this information, how people in the area of the planned location are involved in this issue. In this, I fully identify with the motion of the Member, which is why I have indeed made a motion to join the opposition on the issue raised by the opposition, recognising in the constituency the question of voters that there is indeed a great need for reassuring information. I'm sure that's what you see, Mr. Ombudsperson. There is also a great need for adequate wide-ranging information. Since I see, on a monthly basis, the area of which Mr Keresztes has just mentioned, Stonecracker and its surroundings, I cannot support the panic mood there at all. Since I was also at the recultivation state plant, I also saw that... I'm sorry, I don't want to go into technological detail, because it's not the subject of our proposal, but it was said that there is a lifelong, even eternal, recultivation task after the closure of uranium mines. The uranium mines opened in the area of Mecsek after 1955, and in the 1990s the production was finished, after which the water depression of the time, so the displacement of the water layers from the underground mining areas, has now returned, the water has surfaced again. Of course, this contains the uranium content from the disturbed rock, which is extracted from it, and thus the purified water is released into the streams near the water base in Toronto. So, technically, it's working perfectly. This is a state task and a task that the Hungarian state knew on the budget line even when it closed the uranium mines 25 years ago. This is a similar task in every country, so we should condemn the decision of sixty years ago to have Hungary mining uranium, obviously it is not worth it. At the same time, our question today is that it is indeed the prudent research, perhaps the re-examination of several locations, and the request for the opinion of the local people, if it happens after sufficient information, a relevant idea, idea, and as a representative of the constituency myself, I respectfully ask that the Commissioner's Office examines such issues with sufficient sensitivity with the involvement of the ministry, the professional wallets. At the same time, a panic mood, please don't wake up in this and any other questions. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-237	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Hoppál. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2020-11-30-238	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief. I don't have much time left. I was very pleased to hear Mr Peter Hoppál's speech. We fully agree that Hungary has decided to use nuclear energy, so in the current legislative context we have an obligation to ensure that high-activity waste and spent fuel are permanently disposed of. We don't see any other technology now than deep geological storage. It was also decided that this should be established in the country. The problem is that it is being searched in an area close to the largest city in Transdanubia, a large city agglomeration, and that is unprecedented, it is unacceptable. What I think we need to do now is that we have to decide, and that is currently the case, because this national programme is now under review, that areas that cannot be excluded on the basis of technical and geological capabilities will be re-evaluated on the basis of socio-economic conditions, and that we will give policy instructions to professionals to look for alternative sites. If we can agree on this with the government side, then I think we can put a solution on the table of the Pécs that is acceptable to everyone. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-239	Thank you very much, Mr Crossman, Mr Group Leader. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. (No one's reporting.) I don't see a signal. I'll ask the author... But I do not ask, because Congressman Vejkey stood up and the rapporteur wishes to speak in the remaining 13 minutes and 2 seconds.
u2020-11-30-240	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate on the Commission's reports, it was also reflected in the general debate that there is no difference of opinion between the factions, whether it is pro-government or opposition groups, regarding the adoption of the Ombudsman's and his alternates' report for 2019 and the proposal for a decision itself. However, to respond to the speakers, Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP Group leader, our fellow Member, there are indeed points of debate between us regarding alternative energies, especially as regards the holistic approach to how harmful they are, how forward-looking they are. I believe that these debates are appropriate in general, but not in the context of the debate on this proposal for a decision, because, as I said, it has only one purpose, whether or not to accept the Ombudsman's report and the Commission's proposal for a decision on it. And by the way, as far as the nuclear storage is concerned, I would say that it is not the execution of the nuclear storage facility, but the survey of the sites is ongoing. László Varga, our MSZP fellow Member, also said that he raised several problems. Yes, that's right, he raised several problems. [[19.00]] However, I can also say that these problems raised by the Member were not, in fact, specific to the operation and reporting of the Ombudsman and his alternates in 2019 but rather indirectly affected this report. The abolition of EBA, as Mr President said, will be the next agenda, but I would like to make it clear now that it will not be an end, but a succession. Thank you, my Fidesz colleague, Péter Hoppál, for your support. I would very much ask my fellow Members to support the proposal for a resolution as well as the report during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-241	I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Imre Vejkey, for the closing. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Proposal submitted by the Judicial Committee T/13631. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-11-30-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13631. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Respect and protection of fundamental rights is an obligation of the State. The State shall ensure that the conditions for the exercise of fundamental rights are guaranteed. For years, the government has been working to meet these state obligations at the highest level by setting up appropriate regulation and establishing an institutional system that is best able to act in order to protect fundamental rights and create equal opportunities. The purpose of this bill is to create an institution to ensure equal treatment even more effectively by integrating the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Equal Treatment Authority will not cease, its general successor will be the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Dear House, The operation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights so far is a guarantee that this integration will strengthen the effectiveness of fundamental rights protection. The Equal Treatment Authority will be integrated into the institutional system of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and will continue to work within it. To this end, it is necessary to amend the legislation contained in the proposal. The Ombudsman's powers and procedural rules must also necessarily be amended. The bill serves to protect the interests and rights set out in the equality of treatment legislation, while ensuring it. At the same time, it is also an opportunity for the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to remain the same, so that he can also carry out tasks falling within his powers or in his previous powers and, in addition, complement his powers and complement his duties with the previous legislative options for the Equal Treatment Authority. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to ensure better performance of tasks than before, at a higher level, to investigate discrimination cases more effectively. We consider it important to achieve the requirement of equal treatment, to recognise and prevent discrimination processes, and to have an adequate remedy for all people who are discriminated against, i.e. discrimination. In view of what has been said, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-243	Good evening. Thank you very much. We'll get back to work. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Vejkey, President of the Commission, if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-244	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee shall be T/13631. The legislative proposal submitted under number 1 concerns the amendment of individual laws to ensure more effective enforcement of the requirement of equal treatment. This was not the forward-looking debate in the general debate on this bill, as we said on the previous item on the agenda, but on the contrary, unfortunately, in the general debate of the bill, there was a mood on the part of the left-wing parties. But I think that during the debates it has become clear that the new bill will bring about uniform and clear regulation. Thank you very much for the proactive approach of the Committee on Nationalities to the bill. The amendment they proposed was also adopted by the Judicial Committee as well as by the Legislative Committee. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill includes amendments to seven laws, with the adoption of which from 1 January 2021 the role of the Equal Treatment Authority will be entirely conferred on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Commissioner has already had extensive investigative powers in this area, but lacked the powers to sanction his findings. With this amendment of the law, this deficit can also be eliminated. I am convinced that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will be able to respond even more effectively to our need for greater equal treatment through the establishment of a new institutional structure and the use of the fundamental rights protection experience at his disposal. Ladies and Gentlemen, It was also said in the debate that these issues had never been discussed until last Monday. In this regard, I can tell my fellow Members that this is a mistake. It is a mistake, because it was mentioned 20 years ago, and at the time it was presented by the then Commissioner for Nationality. That was 2000 years ago. Ladies and Gentlemen, It was also clear in the debate that we will not abolish the Equal Treatment Authority, but that there will be succession for the Ombudsman's office, i.e. it is not an uninherited termination, as was said in the general debate. In order to carry out this task, the Ombudsman will be given authority powers, as I pointed out. Ladies and Gentlemen, This bill is an important step in the area of uniform fundamental rights protection, and I therefore urge you to support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-245	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that you have 12 minutes and 20 seconds left at the end if you wish to use it. [[19.10]] I would like to ask Secretary Völner that he would like to speak with the government now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you very much. You have 15 minutes, too. You don't have to take advantage of it at all. [[Defiance.]] I'm only telling you this for information. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to the Slovenian minority speaker, Erika Kissné Köles, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who presents the first sentences of her speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Madam Speaker.
u2020-11-30-246	Gospod Predsednik, hvala za besedo! Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held the T/13631 as a committee related to the debate at its meeting on 24 November 2020. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The Committee did not take a position on the proposal for an amendment to the bill, but expressed a further intention to amend it at the meeting. On this basis, the Committee presented a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed debate. The amendment tabled, in addition to the clarification of language suitability and codification, is set out in Article 9 of the bill. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. The Ajbt. the following point III/C. Chapter II is added as follows: If the petitioner does not make a statement or requests the opening of both proceedings, with the exception of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in paragraph 4, the Ebktv. It shall initiate the procedure set out in paragraph 1 and inform the petitioner within 10 days of the submission by the Ebktv. it shall be deemed to be an application within the meaning of Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. (4) If, in the case relating to the enforcement of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, the petitioner does not declare himself or requests the opening of both proceedings, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall decide, on the basis of a proposal from his substitute for the protection of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, whether it is in accordance with this law or in accordance with the Ebktv. It is appropriate to initiate the procedure set out in this Regulation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ebktv is not appropriate in the case of submissions against discrimination on grounds of nationality or nationality. The automatic primacy of the procedure in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be laid down in law. For professional and work organisation reasons, it is also appropriate for the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality to propose to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that they be proposed by Ajbtv. Or the Ebktv. It shall be examined in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 1 and shall be assigned accordingly to the secretariat of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality or to the separate department. As I indicated in the general debate of the bill, it would be comforting for us, for members of the ethnic communities in Hungary, to have the Ebktv. according to the official procedure or the more complex Ajbtv. The selection of the examination within the framework of the procedure set out in paragraph 1 could start on the basis of the professional opinion of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality responsible for Parliament on a case-by-case basis, and not on the basis of the general rule, in any case on the basis of the official procedure. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I ask with respect for the support of the amendments tabled by the Committee. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for the audition.
u2020-11-30-247	Thank you very much. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda: Fidesz 27, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9, MSZP 9, DK 7, LMP 6, Dialogue 5, independent in 4 minutes time frame. No two-minute comments are possible. As a representative asking for a normal word, first of all, Congressman László Varga, MSZP, please.
u2020-11-30-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, For the last time, although I think the merits of things have been decided here before tomorrow's vote, let me put a few arguments on the table. First of all, President Vejkey referred to it as a form. We weren't talking about last Monday, there was a committee meeting on Monday two weeks ago, and it didn't even occur to me that there would be another committee meeting the next morning. That is what I said in the general debate, and I am holding it now. That question has not been raised. About six o'clock that night, two Commission invitations arrived, the next morning at 8:30 a.m., in connection with the termination of a very well-functioning, public-satisfaction professional authority. We did not talk about termination without a replacement, but the word "execution" is included in a number of places in the detailed justification of the proposal you have put forward. So that's why we used that word, because it's in many places in the detailed explanation, by the way. I would therefore like to say that, as you have dealt with this case, it is obviously not a matter of your own motivation, but it would be good to put together a motion for a committee of justice quickly and bring it before the Parliament, but it came from a different kind of motivation, so I do not accuse you of this kind of scheming, they simply carried out a warrant on Monday, which arrived in the evening hours. Not with such a vocabulary this morning... so when my fellow Member of Bajkai was sitting on the national bench in the Committee on Justice, he did not have such a serious, well-founded set of words as to justify the proposal, he said there, Mr Bajkai, if I remember correctly, that the legislator actually regulates matters relating to the requirement of equal treatment as he wishes. Thank you very much. So, in the end, the majority will decide as they please. Let us not have enough reasons to support this motion. Once again, there is no reason to terminate this authority, but I see that you are going through with this plan. This is outrageous. By the way, amendments were tabled, some which were not accepted, I am thinking of Zita Gurmai's amendment here, but she will talk about it in more detail in my opinion. I think that the values, the network, the professional knowledge they have created should be preserved. We think it's safe to keep it if we don't beat up this authority. So I think that I will not surprise anyone by saying, on behalf of my group, that whatever this motion has been adopted today as an explanatory statement, whatever it is that Mr. President has sent and attached to the explanatory memorandum, we cannot accept it, and we will vote against tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-249	Thank you very much. Congressman Brenner Koloman, Vice President of Parliament, Jobbik!
u2020-11-30-250	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I asked briefly because I would like to respond on behalf of the EPP Jobbik on the motion of the woman who spoke for nationality. I would like to point out with respect that this amendment could be supported and supported by Jobbik, but since our position is clearly negative for the whole procedure and for the removal of the entire authority, we cannot support the whole package, of course, as my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said, in the detailed debate. But I also wanted to state here as the only right-wing opposition party in Fidesz [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] that we are in favour of the Commission's debate by the minority group, the woman who spoke for nationality. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-251	Thank you. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP!
u2020-11-30-252	Thank you very much. Dear House, We used to say that the test of pudding is eating. I'd like to believe that they can function in the same way as before. I have made an attempt with a number of my opposition fellow Members to see that the advisory board, which, by the way, worked extremely well... that there is a chance that, indeed, when such a new organisation stands up, there should be those brains who, if necessary, really help it in this form, but regrettably there was no chance that they would vote for it. [[19.20]] My problem is that neither the text of the law nor its justification convinced me that there really was a more effective response to discrimination. The other is why, if they had such an intention, there was no discussion, so why there was no social consultation on this. I just had 15 years of this authority, I should've seen what was going on. In my opinion, in relation to the independent motion, they did not have much of a codification; they simply wrote in the law that the Parliamentary Commissioner was acting as an authority in matters of equal treatment, on the basis of the law on equal treatment. I can say that, for example, the Commissioner has not yet had authority, and I think that this is alien to the operation of all types of ombudsman organisations. A stranger from the role of ombudsman to deal, for example, with infringements in the field of employment and services, because the Equal Treatment Act allows services to examine discrimination from trade to entertainment, but also acts in the case of advertising containing discrimination, for example. I think that so far, the Parliamentary Commissioner has examined the constitutional maladministration that has occurred in the operation of state or municipal organisations, but, as a general rule, it will do so not on individual applications, but on the basis of an investigation programme, so this is also a question of what will happen now. The UN and the European Union's human rights documents include the criteria for independence to guarantee sovereignty, organisation and budgetary independence. Well, I didn't see any of these in the bill, and even the creators tried to exclude the possibility of an independent decision by eliminating personal guarantees. I can say that the proposal also ensures that the Ombudsman can act personally and through his authorised colleague in the performance of his duties as defined by the Law on Equal Treatment. In fact, I'd like to ask you how it is, if it's not an illegal withdrawal of jurisdiction in an official procedure. So, of course, I look forward to seeing how this kind of operation will start, and I would like to ask you once again to think again that the re-establishing of the Advisory Council would really help this organisation. I must say that it is very important to have the professional and enforcement guarantees that have been built into operation so far, because I also consider this to be extremely important. So I'd like to continue to tell you, as I started, that the pudding test is eating, we'll see how it's going to work in reality. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-253	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, here you go.
u2020-11-30-254	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I will try to take into account the warnings often made by the President during the evening, so that we do not take the time frame.
u2020-11-30-255	I'm only drawing attention to the possibilities given by the house rules.
u2020-11-30-256	That's right, that's right, Mr. President. The timeframe in a summary debate is still scarce for smaller groups, but I will not take advantage of it, but I must respond briefly, and I would not even like to repeat in detail the debate that has taken place in the past period. At the same time, I must respond to the introduction of Congressman Imre Vejkey. It is a very specific introduction by former Member, Mr President. With regard to this item on the agenda, he said that the debate was very constructive, because the pro-government and opposition groups agreed. We did not agree on this issue, so he said that the left was using this debate to create a mood. I think, Mr Vejkey, this is a little more nuanced, so if we disagree, it doesn't necessarily mean a morale. Actually, I'd like to refer to one more thing here, a little while longer, and I promise you, I won't do it again. I see that the pro-government side has such an published directive, that the opposition should be mentioned as being, so that as such a collective name, the left should be pictured, and preferably under the direction of Ferenc Gyurcsány, in order to make it relatively simple to design your communication toolbox. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention, and here I thank Peter Hoppál for having taken this into account, that the opposition is composed of opposition parties from a different and different kind of policy, operating on an ideological basis. Indeed, the LMP is a very national-based Green Party, and I am very pleased that Congressman Peter Hoppál has honored us by mentioning us in this way. Right, the Jobbik, we all know that a fundamentally right-wing party, a national people's party, Vice-President Brenner Koloman, draws attention to this every time. I think it is also appropriate to respect this, and indeed on the opposition side there is the MSZP, DK is here, they adopt themselves as left-wing parties. But with great respect, I would ask Congressman Vejkey, the representative of the KDNP, to respect our own definition. By the way, the LMP has reached the National Assembly on its own during the last three parliamentary elections, and this cannot be charged with KDNP. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Touché!]] Since it's a co-travel, little party boy, I wouldn't dare to live on the government side myself, in my heart, with adjectives like a Communist party, a Bolshevik party, and a lot of adjectives. I think that this is not necessarily acceptable in Parliament's politics, that I am telling you what you are. I can tell you about their operation: basically, the Bolshevik operation that you carry out is typical of this proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] I think we should give each other mutual respect by trying to look at each other and postulate each other as it comes from our own definition. Indeed, there have been very strong differences in opinion on this legislation. We see that if, in recent times, the government did not like an organization, did not like an authority, did not like any entity, then at any time it was able to overcome any opposition to its own policy, in the interest of political validation, to grind them up and shape the entire institutional and organizational system, as they believe to be in line with their own political and power-technical intentions. By the way, Mrs Gurmai Zita has made a very thorough, accurate professional criticism, for which she will certainly be honoured. At the same time, I am a little bit stricter than that: I see open, clear political dictatorships and political steamrollers. I do not expect much for this initiative either, and the wrongness of this procedure, which you have done, is supported by the concerns and protests of many, many, many of the affected organisations, who have formulated these protests according to their own temperament, as we can say again here, against the will of the stakeholders, or without any meaningful social coordination, which really works as you have been accustomed to: you have a majority, you have two thirds, you can do anything. This is gonna work for a while, but then there's gonna be a time when it doesn't. The LMP fraction will, of course, vote against this proposal with a very strong gender. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-257	Thank you very much. Your better representative, Congressman Csaba Gyure, is coming. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why some Members of Fideszes-KDNP are hurt by the fact that there is a right-wing national party character in the opposition, or a party that represents it, and the real national interests of the real national values! You're representing him, not on the banks' side, like the ruling party does, not on the side of the multinationals, like you do. I suppose this will cause you considerable pain when it comes to this in Parliament, and obviously this will cause you to react in a variety of ways. In fact, there is such a party in the opposition, a fact that there are several right-wing parties on the opposition side and a party representing real national values, and everyone represents national values, in my opinion, on the opposition side. Then I wanted to respond to what Congressman Vejkey, President of the Commission, said. He said that there was a spirit here from the opposition. I do not know why it is a problem if the opposition does not agree perfectly with you in everything. Why is it a problem if the opposition criticises your bill? Obviously, you are not perfect either, although you may think so, and obviously we can find points in the legislative proposals or even in their system or in the basics that we cannot agree with, and indeed there is one point in this proposal. Yes, we also said in the general debate that the Equal Treatment Authority worked for 15 years, and on the part of the governing party, but there was no objection from the opposition to its operation, and that its activity was basically accepted and recognised by the Equal Treatment Authority. We do not understand the political reason why this Equal Treatment Authority is being abolished overnight and incorporated into the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. We do not understand this either because, in our opinion, this step in itself is contrary to their own basic law, their own granite-solid Fundamental Law, since Article 30 (2) regulates in detail what the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is responsible for, and there is no sanction, there is no official activity. [[19.30]] So, in my opinion and interpretation, this is in any event contrary to the Basic Law, Article 30 (2). We do not know what caused this sudden change in confidence with the Equal Treatment Authority or its leader; obviously we do not know, we may not know, and you obviously know what is the reason for this move, but we cannot agree with you on this. What we saw and watched when this bill came into force is that the Equal Treatment Authority did impose very serious sanctions, and it did pay great attention to the proper and well-being of its tasks, and thus also to ensuring equal treatment in Hungary. We don't understand what that was about. On this basis, we cannot support this government's ambition, and we will therefore vote against it here. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-259	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-11-30-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will also turn to this debate on the left-right for a short sentence, because there are smiling statements from the left, but why did my fellow Member Vejkey call it a left-wing mood, did he not? What I could tell you, as Congressman Varga said, is that your communications, your social media entries and your media documents have written the following words: "The Equal Treatment Authority will cease to exist. This is a very, very, very small detail of the truth, and it is written in the law, I just want to say exactly how it is quoted in the law: the Equal Treatment Authority will end on 1 January 2021, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. At a point on the agenda and in the previous general debate, we have largely agreed with the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that there has been a high-quality professional activity in the Ombudsman's Office, and you have expressed your hope that this high-quality professional work will continue. Then, with an agenda, they will tell us how terrible it is to have fundamental rights protected and anti-discrimination activities. [[Continue in 172/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, 30 November 2020 Monday 172/2. Number Parliamentary Diary There is some confusion here in the force, I understand, but we say left-wing mood, when only half of the sentence is highlighted and it can be said that it will cease; because it is appropriate to create a mood for many voters and media consumers to think that it will cease, never again exercise such powers, otherwise the equal treatment authority in Hungary will no longer be able to fight against discrimination when this is not true. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his office will be responsible for this activity, and with authority, as my fellow Member has pointed out, because it will end with succession and be merged into it. So all the powers so far, all the activities so far, will be preserved, and will continue to be carried out at a high level, at a high professional level. That's why we're saying it's a pep talk when you've been touring the press about the elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority, and after that, you didn't do a comma, that's just a point, that's the problem. My fellow Members should not overlook calling you left-wing representatives and left-wing parties, when you have worked for this in recent years, you have worked hard to earn this title. I looked at it, for example, last year, a member of the Democratic Coalition's presidency had the Jobbik logo on the poster of the municipal representatives' campaign, so you launched DK presidency member XII. in the district; there's the beautiful logo. For example, György Szilágyi encouraged support from Ferenc Gyurcsány to support István Vágó. I could give you similar examples by the end of the day. I will not do this to the President's warning not to take advantage of the time frame, but there are many such examples. You've worked hard for the last two or three years to call you the left party. You have therefore worked hard here in Parliament, outside of Parliament, to call you a left-wing party, because you have given up all your principles, and in one year, Congressman Gyüre has protested 366 times with the Nyíregyháza Jobbik in 2007, and he yelled "Gyurcsány" while now shouting "Gyurcsány, come back!" And he's helping her. That's the problem. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-261	Dear Parliament, Who's "Who"? I personally like the competition, but the house rules impose on me the obligation to say that this is the debate of certain laws amending the requirement of equal treatment more effectively. So, of course, I am not restricting anyone's self-recognition and awareness of others, but I would like them to talk about the bill. Congressman László Varga, MSZP!
u2020-11-30-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you are trying to approach this proposal with a broad perspective, but to get back to what has been said and what my fellow Member Nacsa said, I would not take on one thing because you can accuse me of being left-wing, so I have no problem with that, and I am proud to do so. With all the rest you've told me, I have a major problem. Because here I certainly did not speak of termination without successor, nor did I speak of it in any of the minutes, nor in the detailed explanations of termination, you should look at it, Congressman. That's what I said then and now. I'll keep this, it's in at least four places. Otherwise, there was only one rational argument about the need for this proposal. I think the zeroth point, by the way, is when we negotiate in Parliament that we need the particular proposal. I am saying that there is no need for this proposal. By the way, all my opposition fellow Members who spoke before me have said this, and I hold it. And there's one thing I don't think my fellow Member Nacsa can explain: the method. If you think you're so right, then why did you have to call a committee meeting in the evening, which we didn't even know about in the afternoon or at the committee meeting that day? And then, the next morning, all sorts of impact assessments, without social consultation, were submitted to the Parliament. Really, there was no serial number in the invitation, so this proposal came in. So I don't think there's anything to talk about. This proposal is not necessary in the Parliament, and it is not really necessary to adopt this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-263	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2020-11-30-264	Mr President, Dear House, With sufficient restraint, I try to highlight to my fellow pro-government Members what we are talking about, stressing that the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was essentially satisfied by me and the faction behind me, and I respect the professional work that they have done. I am concerned because I fear that the framework of this professional work will change. Let me give you an example of all this. When I joined Parliament, I was even more inexperienced than I am now, and I went to the Consumer Protection Committee, where I learned a lot about not only the issue of consumer protection, but also about finances, banking and so on. This was a very successful committee, a technical committee. He reminded me of a mini Switzerland, where we didn't shred each other politically, but we were looking for consensus that is now sorely lacking in the Commission's system that you grind. Then, after a few years, this committee ceased to exist, if not without its successor, but with strapped ties, it was melted into the Economic Committee with the promise that there would be a Consumer Protection Sub-Committee, which is why this area will have a prominent role there. The fact is that since then, an independent consumer protection proposal has not come out of the Economic Committee. The FTT could be passed on loosely by the banks, the banking sector special tax, and there were countless anomalies that could have been responded to with a professional approach and common national minimums. I am now afraid of this subpoenaed meltdown, and it is possible to argue in terminology until morning that the opportunities that have been lost in the past due to changes in the same parliamentary structure will be reduced. I could also say that, of course, the right- and left-wing division could be debated by morning, and I would not want to go into that debate in order to prevent presidential warning, but if we look at how Fidesz-KDNP has practically conquered the multi-semmens, giving up all national approaches and all national interests, my fellow Member Nacsa will stand up and express his opinion that you have signed a two billion-dollar grant agreement with the Audi, they have replaced the loss of total shutdown and quarantine to this company. Tell us which three Hungarian small businesses have received 100 percent back. I am not criticising the presence of Audi, as I know the supply chain, although Hungary is able to join a rather low level of the international production value chain, but I would prefer to do so if we could produce higher added value. [[19.40]] However, it is nonsense that a government that claims to be national provides far more non-refundable and job creation support to these mega-enterprises than even the governments before 2010, which I have criticized a lot for giving so much support without reciprocating. They keep the Hungarian wage level humiliatingly low and leave the Hungarian wage level, keeping Hungarian workers in an extremely vulnerable position. You literally allow foreign workers to settle in Hungary from Vietnam, the Far East, Ukraine in the order of hundreds of thousands. And I mean not our Transcarpathian brothers, but those who come here, taking the job for very low wages, often under humiliating circumstances. They're poor people. But if this flow chart has already been put together, at least don't put on the national label that you asked for here in Parliament between 2010 and 2014 and called the one who called himself a national thinker. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] I was here, and I remember you, so please don't try to rewrite your own history books. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-265	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask if anyone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[There's no signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that he wishes to reflect on what has been said on behalf of the government.
u2020-11-30-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-267	Thank you very much. Now I'll ask the author, President Vejkey, if you'd like to speak to me. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-268	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate, too, has proved that you have not taken into account the provisions of the bill and its justification, but that you have sought to create a mood, in the general debate and, unfortunately, here in the Chamber. But to talk about specifics, first of all, I would like to thank the Slovenian advocate Erika Kissné Köles for the objective and, indeed, the most important information. And thank you to the Committee on Nationalities for the proactive attitude that has been shown in this bill, but we have already seen it in relation to other legislative proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, You see, it's still possible to get involved in a bill, as the committee of nationalities does. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, my God!]] If we look at who EBA is really most concerned with, it does not concern you the most, but the members of the committee of nationalities and the people they represent. They are the ones who are most affected, and they support this bill. So I can say here, too, that the horse's foot hangs out in your argument. I thank my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for his supportive speech and for his sentences with which he corrected certain outbursts. My fellow Member, László Varga, said that this happened on Monday two weeks ago. That's right, I'll take it. Not a week ago, but two weeks ago. And thank you for accepting that this is a succession, not an end, because you have accepted it in essence. I regret that, despite this, you say that the MSZP is not in favour of this higher level of preservation. In his second speech, my fellow Member said that you and, in fact, your fellow Members on the left were of the opinion that there was no need for this bill. I believe that this bill is very much needed, and it is very important, my fellow Members, that we can enforce the requirement of equal treatment even more effectively in Hungary. This is the purpose of this bill, and I am very sorry that left-wing parties do not consider it so important. Vice-President Brenner Koloman said that he was in favour of what the Committee on Nationalities tabled as an amendment, but he no longer generally supports the bill itself. Mr Vice-President, this looks like the committee of nationalities has tabled a specific amendment to our bill, an amendment that makes the system even better. And that's what we said yes to. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: So are we.]] At its meeting of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislative Affairs. I can therefore say to Mr Vice-President that the committee of nationalities could not have tabled this amendment, this improving amendment, as compared to the old system, if it had not been for this bill. And thank you again for your presentation. Our fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, said that he regretted that this bill was being discussed in this way by Parliament and that we did not actually convince him that this would be forward-looking. I believe that we have raised a great many arguments in this regard. And perhaps we should not be talking about ourselves, but especially about the committee of nationalities, if they think it is forward-looking, then I think it is worth listening to them, Congresswoman. As far as authority is concerned, I would like to say to the representative that the establishment of authority to the Ombudsman will mean that in the future she can take a decision, set sanctions in that decision, and, of course, appeal to the court against this decision. After a Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, my fellow Member, Mr Group leader, spoke, to whom my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has basically already responded. However, we would like to say that we thank you for the citational respect you have expressed for the KDNP and the Christian Democrats, but we do not ask for this false representation that the group leader has poured on us. We assume that Mr. Group Leader did not say this to us out of poison, but simply because everyone is starting out of themselves. Our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, feared Jobbik's earlier options would decrease in the context of this bill. I can also tell our fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpat, to look at the protocol that the committee of nationalities recorded at the committee's meeting on this bill, and I believe that this concern in the general debate, in today's debate, and in the committee's session will certainly be reduced. Vice-President Csaba Gyüre said that this is the bill according to his unlawful position. In our view, these provisions are not against the fundamental law, they are completely in line with the Hungarian Basic Law. Once again, the purpose of this bill is to ensure that the requirement for equal treatment is more effective in our country. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the declaration of the year 2022 and 2023 as a commemorative year by Sándor Petőfi follows. Presentation submitted by Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, István Simicskó, KDNP; L. László Simon, Fidesz; Sándor Lezsák, Fidesz; Győző Vinnai, Fidesz; László Salacz, Fidesz; Sándor Font, Fidesz, Members H/13655. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask Mr Vinnai, who is present, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Here you go. [[19.50]]
u2020-11-30-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk briefly about the intention of the author, because the general debate has been held, and a detailed debate has also been held. Sándor Petőfi's poetry is our national treasure, and therefore we thought that the authors' intention was to celebrate this huge literary legacy in 2022 and 2023 in a worthy manner. That's in 2022-23 because we're trying to tie it to the school year. The 200th anniversary of the poet's birth will take place on 1 January 2023, and historians agree on this, although they argue a little that he was born at the end of 22 or on 1 January 23. We believe that in the same way as in the case of the Memorial Year of János Arany, we would like to spread the poetry of Sándor Petőfi as widely as possible, and not just the poetry, the human posture he demonstrated during the Revolution and War of Independence in 1848-49. In the general debate, we have seen that the opposition, although I am afraid to say that it is oppositional, let us say that it is a united left, because there will be identity disputes here. [[Intercoms from the opposition side.]] who is a right-wing party or a national and green party, are on a platform, but also in this Petőfi Memorial Year, because in the general debate, it has turned out that you will support this proposal. I hope that this support will remain and that we will be able to celebrate the literary legacy of Sándor Petőfi and what he left for us, to Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-271	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Congressman that you have 12 minutes and 50 seconds left if you wish to use it at the end. I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Péter Fekete, if you would like to speak to me now on behalf of the government.
u2020-11-30-272	With all due respect, Mr President, I will be able to address you when the debate is over.
u2020-11-30-273	It's okay, I get it. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Time frame distribution: Fidesz 27; KDNP 13; Jobbik 9; MSZP 9; DK 7; LMP 6; Dialogue 5; Independents can speak in 4 minutes. We now have speeches from Members. First, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP. Before I give you the floor, I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. Congresswoman, please.
u2020-11-30-274	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Just because it was an extremely important and useful initiative to declare 2022 the year to be Petőfi Memorial Year, the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports this. We know exactly how important Petőfi is in this country for small and big people. Obviously, the 200th anniversary of his birth is important. There's no kid who doesn't know what county Petőfi was born in. I definitely believe that he is one of the most prominent and well-known literary figures in our country. I don't think there's a Hungarian in this wide country who can't do one or two or at least three Petőfi series. It is very important to me that he was actually able to pass his brilliant poetry on to his readers in the language of the people. We know his revolutionary thoughts, his patriotism. I think that it has had an enormous impact on Hungarians and exercises on Hungarians, so it was actually a very useful initiative on the part of the government. We're in favor.
u2020-11-30-275	Thank you very much. Congressman Peter Hoppál, Fidesz!
u2020-11-30-276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in the general debate and in the detailed debate we have taken a serious step towards finally finding a consensus in this Parliamentary framework. I am pleased that the proposals of the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP are supported in the debates by our fellow left-wing Members. We should be all the more pleased about this because the general debate was interrupted by an episode when the DK Members deemed every submission on that day to be premature and asked for their withdrawal, including the withdrawal of the Petőfi Memorial Year. I hope that, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the left will also be united in the fact that the Petőfi Memorial Year will no longer be negled. It is very important that we really have consensual proposals, and that if they can recall the success of the commemorative year of the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany three years ago, we have already experienced how our richest Hungarian poet, our writer, can be effective and 21. After the decision of the Parliament, the civilian government had not seen the support of a commemorative year, with government support of around five billion forints. This made it possible for the message of János Arany 200 to really reach every small community. We can very much hope that, if the question of support for the Petőfi Memorial Year is now united, as I say, we have seen a welcome signal in the debates, then we can hope that the Government will provide another very significant and large national support for the presentation of the Secretary of State. This will be necessary because we believe that the poet, the poet of the war of freedom, who, despite his painfully short life, left a huge, massive poem book for posterity, and who we Hungarians can not only know throughout the Carpathian Basin, the diaspora, but we can say that he is the most well-known Hungarian poet in the world. This has also been said in the debates. If we have the opportunity to negotiate bilateral meetings with the Chinese, then at each trial they will tell us how glad they are that the greatest Hungarian poet, as the Chinese say, is a poem by Sándor Petőfi, Freedom, love! All Chinese children learn it in primary school, and so each member of the 1 billion 300 million, one of the largest nations in the world, has a translated Petőfi poem. These are fantastic facts, which are the 21st. Hungarian activity in the century and our generations not only have to be able to do so, but also provide us with a privileged opportunity for our generation to organize a worthy series of remembrances, in which every Hungarian living person will be involved, whether they live in the motherland or live in any region of historical Hungary before Trianon, which Petőfi entered. Let us all be touched by this commemorative year, this will be the expectation, and let us put together a programme with which the mainstream that seeks to destroy national identity will be able to contrast this commemorative year. We expect Petőfi Memorial Year, 2022 and 2023 to strengthen all of us in our national identity, and above all the young age group, the age group of today's schoolchildren, and dare to say no and defy the left-wing international current that tries to crush national identity. Dare to be courageous, cling to Petőfi's legacy, this should be the message that there is a future, a national future, and that national identity has not only a past, a present, but also a future full of hope. We therefore call for support for this proposal, as has been said in the debate. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-30-277	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik! [[20.00]]
u2020-11-30-278	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Well, I am very sorry that Members of the NER system cannot put their political views aside today, nor can they put aside in such a sublime debate, and in such a debate, the rapporteur must also speak of a united left, and continue to surprise the opposition. I think that this is unworthy of the current debate. We have finally arrived at a point today, with the importance of which I believe that all Members of Parliament who are in Parliament agree. It is of great importance, and indeed it is, as Győző Vinnai said, that we are talking about national treasure when we are talking about Petőfi's literary works, we all agree that the desire for freedom that was in Sándor Petőfi, his national love, his desire for patriotism that was actually radiated in all his works, and that he gave to people that he gave this desire not only to his own people, but also to his man today, and that is why his poetry is very important, because one of the milestones of our national identity is indeed the literary art of Sándor Petőfi, and it is truly very important for all Hungarian people. That is why I thought that I would say, in terms of the fact that this subject, I believe, should not have been brought down to the low level of political debate, and I am sorry for this, but we, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, as a true right-wing, national conservative people's party naturally support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2020-11-30-279	Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction!
u2020-11-30-280	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, during the general debate, DK's present representative resented the fact that this proposal was on the agenda, and I did not just disagree with the thoughts of our opposition fellow Member. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I have also said this, and I have said that we are in a very difficult time, we are experiencing a terrible tragedy, that, in addition to a health crisis, the country is experiencing a social and economic crisis, Europe is alive and the whole world is alive, but in this period, Parliament is also functioning, we have never said that it does not work, and we have a lot of proposals before us in the already, you can say, symbolic year that are necessary to preserve our souls, to cultivate our traditions, and to express that in many areas we express national unity and that there are very, very important issues, important historical issues, important national issues in which we agree. And indeed, I think this proposal is necessary and important, and thank you very much to the person who was the master of your idea, and thank you very much to the authors for presenting it. Of course, we will fully support this in the vote, even as Hungary's Green Party, which is a green party operating on a national basis. I do not want to respond to this united left and other questions by Mr Vinnai, but I would just like to refer to the fact that we ourselves really believe in the importance of national interests, we believe that all our actions, all our decisions and all our speeches must serve national interests, and that is why it is very difficult to accept such criticisms or comments from the government side, which I think are below the standard, let us say, because I think this is about the level of comment that is saying that one of the most important tragedies affecting our nation at the moment, forced emigration, that there is nothing wrong, that the EU common labour market is working. So I think that this is a very, very important position difference in political position, which is why I say that LMP is basically national emotion, and I cannot accept that in your so-called rhetoric and communication, we receive such signals from the side of the national government. In February, we thought it was equally important, personally, that we were able to accept a proposal for a decision on my motion together when we supported the European citizens' initiative for national regions. We considered it important when we remembered the outrageous Trianon peace dictate of 100 years ago, the national unity, and how proudly we looked back for the last hundred years, that we could stay here in the Carpathian Basin as the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin, and I consider this proposal important. By the way, let me conclude by saying that, not so long ago in the Legislative Committee, I was insulted by your faction director, Congressman Balla, because I have put forward for the 22nd time a proposal for the disclosure of agent files and for the Lustration, because in February, on the Memorial Day of the victims of communism, I presented this for the 21st time, and you voted it down twenty-quarters without a debate. And yes, there is an epidemiological situation, and the most important thing now is that we are also discussing in Parliament the measures relating to defence, primarily health protection, economic defence, but there are important issues that belong to our own culture, belong to our national interests, and that, for example, after such an outrageous 30-year failure, we respect the memory of the victims of communist dictatorships by finally giving this information compensation after thirty years, whether we make the decision to finally exclude the maintenance of the former repressive system, covered by you, hidden, protected by you, from basic public powers. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] I can therefore conclude by saying that we support this, we consider it a very positive proposal, and we will continue to fully support any proposals, any cases that we believe will serve the interests of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-281	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-11-30-282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate Csaba Gyüre's speech, but why didn't you tell the allied DK representative [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] I think that this is a terrible loss of proportion from us, from the Hungarian Parliament, from the Fidesz and KDNP who submitted it, and from the government, which obviously supports it. I don't think there's a place for this. And another quote: those proposals discussed this week, including the Petőfi Memorial Year, were also discussed in this debate, in fact an additional action, in fact a proposal submitted with bad intentions at a bad time or even in some proposals.When you speak of a national unity, you have already asked your friends, your allies, or have already asked them to put aside, at least for such proposals, what the Communication Director has given them, that every proposal must be said, panels [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] At this time, a Petőfi Sándor, who really is our national treasure, where we could really agree, then do this, because now we, who have brought this proposal here, who have written it, who have taken the trouble, who have thought of it, we thought it was important to prepare for the anniversary of the death of Sándor Petőfi, it is important to strengthen the entire Petőfi cult in Hungary, to insult us, while your allies are those who have said so in the debate of the law, as I have quoted from the parliamentary records. I just want to ask you to be fair to your own friends, if that's what you're saying. And I really think that everyone should know about Petőfi, our national treasure, Petőfi, and everyone should cultivate this knowledge, because it's not enough in China that they have learned a poem, it's not enough for us to have learned it in primary school or high school or graduation, and we can tell you that this is exactly what national union is about, Petőfi is one of the symbols of national cohesion. Only if you are very, very close here on 5 December, then, Congressman, you are now getting together with the MSZP and DK, which is the spiritual father and spiritual heir of that ideology all over 5 December. So when you talk about national unity, that's how you think about it in the context of a night's remorse. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-283	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, here you go.
u2020-11-30-284	Thank you, Mr President, and I am sorry to have to speak to you again. I just want to be clear about something. Honourable Congressman Nacsa, there is nothing like you that we have directives on how to think, what to say, what distributed communication panels are, and how to press the button, as well as, where appropriate, against our own beliefs. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál laughs.]] What DK thinks, let's say, about the support and voting rights of Hungarians across borders, is their business. We have always taken a consistent position on this subject, and you may have observed, fellow Members, that when there is such a debate, let us say, the last time the amendment of the Fundamental Law is being debated, I said that I do not agree with my colleagues in DK on this matter. And when the factions decide on voting behaviour, there is no coordination, there is no consultation. The fact that, in 2022, we want to act with some kind of constituencies coordination and cooperation against your corrupt system of national destruction and robbery does not override the fact that there are very serious differences between opposition parties on certain issues, and then I ask you to observe the process as we go to 2022, how, in what way, we will voice these differences, and let us say, how Jobbik and LMP will enforce their own conviction within such opposition cooperation, and, for example, by mentioning an example, in the year of national integration, we can say a consistent stand up for Hungarians across the border. Personally, I can tell you that I will be a guarantee that we will enforce this, and I can also say that if there is a kind of cooperation or a kind of cooperation that is contrary to my principles, I will not be a part of it. [[20.10]] But as I see the process so far, I can reassure you that we will enforce this insulted, insulted, and, by the way, we can see that we are going to assert a strong representation of national interests in an increasingly fear-seeking opposition effort. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-11-30-285	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2020-11-30-286	Thank you very much. Mr President, Speaking of December 5th and the past, may I recommend to the attention of Congressman Nacsa that he is speaking here as an MSZP legacy, I was the party president who went to Cluj-Napoca to apologize for this political decision at that time. So, if the memories of the past and what a collaboration is based on, it could be a bridge, that there was a politician who was able to admit that at some point, at some point, he made the wrong decision, if any, the party he represented. So I still remember the times when you talked about dual citizenship as a non-current issue with Minister Martonyi, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Zsolt Németh or with the Prime Minister himself in the lead. Then, of course, when they were forced into a referendum on the World Federation of Hungarians, this position changed. But probably if, for example, Jobbik at that time did not force this issue with such force, you might not have changed the official position of the government before it, which always sounded like when Hungarian organisations across the border asked you that this question was not relevant, this was the use of the word, which was then prescribed as communication assistance. But aside from that, if we remember a common past, then perhaps it is worth mentioning that there are a variety of legacys in the MSZP, which, if appropriate, can connect people. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-30-287	Thank you very much. [[He's taking a moment's break.]] I didn't say anything because there was something else on my monitor, and now it's not showing up, but it's not a technical mistake. So I can ask you if anyone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Government?]] Yeah. This is a part of the agenda when I tell you what comes next, and after I close this debate, I will say this now: the debate is closed, and we can now get to what we have been deputised to ask when the government is coming. Now! In the event that the Secretary of State wishes to speak [[For signal:]] I'll give you a chance. Secretary of State Peter Fekete, please.
u2020-11-30-288	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Secretary of State for Culture of the Ministry of Human Resources welcomes the Petőfi-year presentation, thanks the authors for preparing this, and we are very pleased that such a consensus was formed during the detailed debate. The Secretary of State will do everything in its power to prepare a worthy holiday year on the basis of a decision made in time. All of Hungary's cultural institutions will work to celebrate this year with success or with greater success than the Golden Year. I would like to highlight the decision made in time here, because if we can't prepare properly, if we can't prepare the right programmes, if we can't prepare the right investments well, then it would be a failure. I am pleased that all Members of Parliament have seen this through, and I ask that this be confirmed in the vote with a yes button. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-289	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear... [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Presenter?]] Yeah. Everything's coming. For example, the decision will be tomorrow, and the author may now say if he wishes. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman Vinnai.
u2020-11-30-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise to be brief, I don't want to go back into this identity dispute that describes opposition benches. But I would like to say, on the occasion of the Memorial Year, that I am very pleased that the speakers of the MSZP support this Memorial Year. Let us hope that this will be a joint success. I must acknowledge what Attila Mesterházy said, that it is a fact that she went to Cluj Napoca and I can say that she apologized for that attitude. But we also see that this is not the norm in the MSZP or even on the common opposition side. The representatives of DK are not here, but I was there at several events in 2004, and I was also involved in the debates, mostly listening to them, but I was involved in local debates, and I have in my ear the words of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who made a passionate argument for non-nationalisation. But let's shut it down. Let us take a look at the fact that I would like to respond very briefly to Péter Hoppál's comment, to everyone's comments, to seek consensus and to have a worthy memory in 2022-2023. Even because the friendship between János Arany and Sándor Petőfi was legendary, we know their correspondence, we also know that they met many times. János Arany wrote about Sándor Petőfi that Sándor Petőfi is the largest figure of Hungarian literature, but also of world literature. There is no debate between us in this, and I hope that there will not be a worthy memorial. However, I would like to say to my fellow Christian Member that the opposition does not agree on any more issues. It's his right! It's just that when I used the word "unified left" here, it predicts what kind of music they're playing and what list they're gonna start with. To conclude, I would like to say one more thing about Sándor Petőfi, and this was expressed in the intention of the author. If you accept that Sándor Petőfi is the 19th. He was legendary to his poetry in the century about his love of patriotism, his love of freedom, and I invented this concept, only modestly speaking of his love of progress, because his poems tell us how much he loved his country to develop, transform, and become a civil, modern Hungary. That is why we are working, and I hope that the worthy commemoration of the Petőfi Memorial Year will be a joint success. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-291	Thank you very much. Once again, the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the implementation of the 2019 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority follows. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/10660. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, President of the Committee on Budgets, as rapporteur, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It indicates that you don't have 15 minutes, by the way. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. The time frames of the parliamentary factions are: Fidesz 27, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9, MSZP 9, DK 7, LMP 6, Dialogue 5, Independents 4 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Representatives' speeches will follow within the time frame on the agenda. First, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-292	Thank you very much. As a pro- Progress Member, I would like to point out that this bill cannot be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party with regret. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-293	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As there were no other speakers, the debate is closed. I will now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, if you would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, It is about the report on the implementation of the budget, since NMHH, the Committee on Budgets, did not present it independently from a parliamentary point of view, and the Committee on Culture, as it does every year, discusses and accepts the professional report very carefully. Looking at the report from a budgetary point of view, we have established that it complies with the legislation, and that is why I am asking my fellow Members to vote in favour of it in the vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.20]]
u2020-11-30-295	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the joint budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2021 follows. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/13331. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to ask the author, who once again, Mr Lajos Szűcs, would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Time frame distribution: Fidesz 27 minutes; KDNP 13 minutes; Jobbik 9 minutes; MSZP 9 minutes; DK 7 minutes; LMP 6 minutes; Dialogue 5 minutes; Independent 4 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have speeches from Members. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP!
u2020-11-30-296	Thank you very much. Mr President, I don't see a Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask my fellow members in this Chamber to look out the window if they have the opportunity, and see what you think is in this country. You want to vote for HUF 118 billion for the public media when, according to Minister Gergely Gulyás, it is impossible to test in bulk because public money needs to be taken care of. Tell me, please, why do you want to spend almost 120 billion on your own propaganda? So you don't have to take care of public money? You only save on testing people? You're just saving people's health and lives? It is more important for you to declare your own lies than people's lives, because you did not accept any amendments either at the closing of the public media last year or at the budget for next year. 118 billion, 118,000 million forints! But obviously, nothing is too expensive for you to spend on your own propaganda because the public media has nothing to do with public information at the moment. It is a lie factory whose television, apart from a sports event that is popular worldwide, is not watched by the dog. But as the ratings drop, you spend billions more and more of your money on a lie factory called public service. If that money were theirs, I'd tell them to do it. But you want to give 118 billion of people's hard-paid taxes to this propaganda machine that can only spend the money. To farm well, to raise your own resources, your media figures are no longer capable. Look at last year's budget for spending all this money on Kunigunda Street last year. A significant part of the amount, some HUF 53.5 billion, has gone into material expenditures, but the amount of personal payments has also increased a lot, and they have spent more than HUF 17 billion, so the propagandaists of Fidesz are getting paid more and more every year. I tell you honestly, I wonder why this government, which conducted a public opinion poll on everything, dares not ask people whether they agree to spend 118 billion forints of their money on such a public media. Because out of this 118 billion, almost the entire population could be tested now. Or I could use it for a pension raise, because this year, you gave pensioners a maximum of 2 or 3 kilos of chicken fat. The amount of job search support could also be increased. But you want to give this money to people who make lies instead of news; to people who, according to a recording, openly instruct public media employees to do fidesz propaganda. Why don't you consult on whether this money should be spent on propaganda or rather for the purposes listed above? You're not afraid of people's answers, are you? I must admit, we were a little naive in our hope that, given the epidemic and economic difficulties, you would now spend less money on your lies. Unfortunately, we were disappointed. But what is all this money going to do? What we see is that instead of 16 billion last year, they want to spend 20 billion next year on wages and contracts. Amazing, they want to spend an incomprehensible amount of money on things: 70 billion forints, while last year we managed to solve this with not too little 53 billion. Why are you trying to raise me on this now? Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party does not support this mindless and pointless distribution of money. We do not support spending more than a hundred billion forints of public money in the poor public media of Fidesz's propaganda machine. We do not support the spread of disinformation reports and disinformation reports received from abroad with taxpayers' money. We do not support the fact that the public media that worked well for 20-30 billion forints in 2010 will receive almost 120 billion forints next year. We are not in favour of wasting people's hard-paid taxes on microscopic television. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-11-30-297	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction!
u2020-11-30-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, who has just spoken, asked a rhetorical question as to why the government wants to spend such a huge amount of money in the future on propaganda, a lie factory called the public media. It is quite clear why: it is practically a pre-election year, and it is thought that, in addition to the shamefully bad government performance, it will be a flood of propaganda and lies that will increase your chances of staying in power. I believe that this will not be enough and will not be enough; you will be punished in 2022 for this outrageous government performance by Hungarian voters. My fellow Member has mentioned the huge amount of money that will be spent on government propaganda. We have just talked about the fact that a shocking pandemic has caused a deep social and economic crisis in Hungary today. To show how much money they will spend or want to spend next year on propaganda, then a comparison: we recently submitted two proposals to the Economic Committee. One of the proposals was that social workers who worked in shocking conditions would also receive a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000, and the other proposal was to reduce the VAT on basic food to 5 percent in support of Hungarian families in a very, very difficult situation. The budgetary coverage of these two proposals is approximately equivalent to the amount you want to spend on government propaganda. This tells us everything about your responsibilities in citations, a very serious quotation mark, that during a deep economic crisis, the money from which Hungarians could be supported, Hungarian families in difficult situations, you will spend it on government propaganda. I can tell you that the LMP will say very strongly no to this proposal, just as I will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-299	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, if you'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I do not want to bring the general debate back here. Dear Congresswoman, It is not possible to compare apples with pears, budgetary subsidies for the period before 2010 and the television budget for that time with the current budget for a number of reasons, but I think you can get this in the report every year in the Committee on Culture. Since then, there has been a major technical change in television: not only from a qualitative point of view, but also from a technical point of view, it is also necessary to remember how many new channels have developed and how many new lines have been created since 2010. [[20.30]] The fact that you are playing a sheet music, my dear Congressman Keresztes, you can also see that you have said almost the same lines of speech as your MSZP fellow Member. I think that to abuse the cultural programmes of television by being propaganda programmes or blaming a bedtime story by saying that this is a propaganda show is ridiculous. Of course, everyone's position is determined by the sitting point. I think the money from the film fund is in the next year's NMHH budget. Of course, you forget all of this, even though you know it, because at committee meetings, the NMHH reports on these spendings every time, and when separate requests are made about what the NMHH actually devotes its budget support to, they always respond to them. In addition, you forget that the NMHH is the media authority, and you are constantly expanding the operation of the NMHH to the Magyar Television clock, which is once again a slip of the truth. I think they should all admit that once in a while. If we look back before 2010, they should also remember that the construction of the Kunigunda Street building complex in the PPP programme would still cost Hungarian taxpayers more than HUF 180 billion if we did not stop this very expensive construction after 2010. Dear Gurmai Zita! How can you account for the fact that in the PPP scheme you wanted to support your group of buddies, the Bajnai Gordon and his circle that we know exactly what they have done in the past? Compared with the current period before 2010, I can say again that it cannot be compared, because it cannot be compared, so I suggest that the 2021 NMHH budget be strengthened by their vote tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-301	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the status of staff of the National Tax and Customs Office and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/13471. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-302	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the status of the National Tax and Customs Office staff T/13471. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 4 against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In 2011, an organizational integration started with the establishment and adoption of the National Tax and Customs Office Act, whereby the tax office and the customs authorities were organised, thus creating an organisation with specific law enforcement and classic authority functions. The aim of the bill before us is to put the status of employees of the National Tax and Customs Office on a new basis, thus completing the integration started in 2011, since previously the status of employees followed the specific nature of the NAV's tasks. Thus, the NAV staff is currently predominantly composed of government officials and, to a lesser extent, professional finance officers, administrators and employees. As regards government officials and administrative staff, the Public Service Officers Act provides the basis for legal status, but as regards finance officers, it is the law on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the draft submitted is therefore integration with regard to the status of persons which closes organisational integration. We have a new status law that clearly and uniformly seeks to distinguish the entire population of the NAV from the public sector's standards governing other statuses, while at the same time excluding the NAV employees from these background legislations. In addition to administrative and control tasks, the NAV has a very wide range of tasks. In view of the fact that the integration of the two former organisations has led to the current situation, it could easily have been possible that, although with different rights and obligations, the same tasks could have been performed by a government official and a finance officer. In order to resolve this problem, the bill lays down additional liabilities related to the use of arms and coercive equipment for a well-defined group of staff within the accounting staff and detailed in terms of their job, and a certain amount of additional benefits to compensate for them. Dear House, A very important aspect of the draft law is the correction of the salary system. On the one hand, the aim remains to maintain the vitality of the system of progress currently in force, but on the other hand, it is also appropriate to resolve the fully tied system. As I mentioned earlier, the range of tasks performed by the NAV is on a very wide scale, which, in addition to the high level of expertise, requires the latest, most market-capable skills and knowledge. It is therefore necessary to establish a system of salaries which constitutes a transition between professional careers maintaining and compensating for the life of the service and market conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, The submitted bill creates an independent, uniform and new service relationship for the NAV, independent of other legislation, while at the same time fully integrating the NAV legal predecessor's organization beyond organisational and functional merger. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-303	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author, Secretary of State Izer Norbert, if you'd like to speak now. [[Izer Norbert says no.]] It says no. You have 15 minutes, by the way. Dear Parliament, Time frame distribution: Fidesz 27, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9, MSZP 9, DK 7, LMP 6, Dialogue 5, Independents can play in 4 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. Congressman László Varga, MSZP, here you go.
u2020-11-30-304	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee has indeed discussed this proposal and we have heard the majority opinion. Indeed, we are talking about a new status law, which, in fact, has not been taken into account in relation to the fundamental issues of which are just a few employee proposals or comments. Here's the Secretary of State. It was said on the Legislative Committee that there had been a discussion with the trade unions, and then they accepted something from their proposals, but all my fellow Members could receive comments from the Trade Union of Customs and Financial Workers on the proposal submitted. My fellow Members from the MSZP took the liberty of submitting them as their own amendments to the Legislative Committee meeting in two points, and great surprises did not come to us from the pro-government majority who voted these proposals down. These are very detailed proposals, and I will not go into this detailed discussion to clarify the concept of restructuring, to strengthen the principles of legal certainty and predictability, to standardise the amount of supplementary leave, to extend the period of exemption as issues have been raised in our proposal No 2. And in 1 it is a very clear proposal, in which it is, in fact, that we do not consider the finding of a day beyond working hours to be acceptable for an inter-work break. But the one thing that we do not consider acceptable is that among those involved, this is a great outrage. [[20.40]] Let me get this straight. So if you have to set a half-hour inter-work break beyond working hours, let's say, that means that it's not eight hours, it's eight and a half hours, or, let's say, a 24-hour shift, that's an hour according to the calculation that's in the law. This means, let's say, counting on the 18,000 NAV staff, that almost 750 new workers have to do the work of the current staff in this way, which is obviously a huge burden and unacceptable. These are not the proposals of our own head of the well, but they make clear the proposals of this trade union, and I think that if this government were truly employee-friendly, it would have accepted these proposals in the basic proposal, but as a last resort in the Legislative Committee, the pro-government majority could have accepted the proposals presented together with my fellow Members in the MSZP. However, this has not been done, so this proposal obviously makes it unacceptable in this form, even if it has some forward-looking elements. At this late hour, I will make one more effort to finally vote tomorrow to convince you to consider taking the proposals of the trade unions into account. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-305	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr. Jobbik.
u2020-11-30-306	Mr President, Dear House, What my fellow Member Varga said is extremely important, since we can talk about a veterinary horse in the case of this proposal. The government is making up something, and it has rightly been said that, in terms of the number of employees of about 20,000, this employee collective is expressing its will in some way, and now it is decided that the government is able, willing, able to accept any meaningful changes. What I'm saying is, if the government wants to emulate democracy, then something of this should be accepted. In previous debates, we talked about diversions, which do not necessarily mean that some of the workers' salaries and earnings can be moved in this way, even in a negative direction. The question of language examination may not seem to be such a deep or meaty issue in the middle of the Covid disaster, but, fellow Members, we are in a situation where no NAV worker is necessarily out of trouble. Various research accounts for between 40 and 60 percent of our fellow countrymen whose family has been negatively affected by the Covid situation in some way. So it's either their salary directly, or it's one of the family members, or it's part or all of the small family core of someone else's. It may not be the exact amount of the language examination, but the amounts of the same magnitude, indeed, are missing at the end of the year or during the difficult period. That is why I am getting you to keep the positive changes, let those who may have a difficult situation go in the emergency slowly, and here I propose to you the institution of the Hungarian Fund for the Protection of Jobs. This goes by a different name for all opposition parties, but the same principle is that 80 percent of lost wages should be replaced by those who have already lost their jobs. Fortunately, I have not heard of mass dismissals of a thousand magnitude on the part of the one that we have just discussed. Let's keep it that way. Don't let that happen. Obviously, it would not be the solution to put this expected extra time on it alone and exclusively on the current stock. It may also have to be possible for this company to employ a new workforce, but we can clearly see that the replacement of lost wages could be a national minimum that was somehow resolved in 15 countries of Europe in the spring. Hungary then joined the queue, but now it is only two sectors, typically very narrowed down, with a total of only 5 percent of the workers involved to talk about the intention of replacing some kind of wage. I think that if we widen this circle, there could be a common understanding. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-30-307	Thank you very much. Congressman Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction.
u2020-11-30-308	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I promise I'll be very, very brief. Basically, I agree with what my fellow Members have said. I can say that we will not support this bill or the next bill discussed in the general debate, even though it has important and eligible elements, but there are problems that do not allow us to support this bill in this form. Actually, I'd like to ask you a question, give it a shot. In recent weeks, we have asked a lot of governmental authorities in many, many forums about the political realities behind the proposal of the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Today was Minister Palkovic's annual hearing at the meeting of the Economic Committee, and he said that the very amazing idea of withdrawing the business tax was that it was the Chamber President's job to make such ideas, and the government's task was to think. The Minister said that this is something the government is thinking about. I ask Mr Secretary of State whether he has more intel on what the government intends to do with this amazing proposal, and what the government intends to do with the amazing size and amount of legitimate protests that have been formulated in connection with this idea, I add, on the part of pro-government mayors. I think it would be very, very important in the current state of the Hungarian economy, in its situation, that the government should finally say something about this long, prolonged debate and strongly reject this amazing proposal against the local authorities, which is, in effect, a final attack. Thank you very much, and I trust the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-11-30-309	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2020-11-30-310	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As we have said in the general debate, this is an important and forward-looking proposal, the creation of a uniform legal status is absolutely justified because it settles both professional and wage tensions at NAV and will show more favourable conditions and more competitive salaries in the new status towards NAV employees. I would like to reassure everyone that the law also shows that no one can be worse than his previous legal status. Everyone can do much worse with the promotional system, the professional allowances and the inclusion of previous years of service, and many will benefit much better thanks to the promotional system, the performance pay. This is in the interests of all of us, the interests of economic whitening, the interests of achieving tax revenues, so it is in the common interest of all of us, because here we are preparing the budget together, a significant part of which relies on the fact that NAV employees are doing their work at a high professional level and efficiently. This requires the creation of a single legal status and the creation of competitive wages. This has not just started, and there have been wage increases for NAV employees years back, so I would like to remind my fellow Members once again that no one can do worse. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-311	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. I'm going to ask Secretary Norbert Izer if he'd like to speak now. [[Izer Norbert: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to what has been said in this debate. Firstly, I thank the pro-government representatives for their support and for their summary of the most important elements of the law. Indeed, I would also like to emphasise that the completion of the integration of the NAV started ten years ago could be this legislation when we create a single tax authority status. Therefore, there will be no separate legal status for finance and taxation officers from here on, but a uniform legal status within the tax authority. Let me also respond to the objections raised by opposition representatives. When we started the general debate, there was a voice on the other side that, if we could resolve some disagreements or some questions, we might even be eligible for the proposal, because we are talking about a forward-looking, very positive legal status law, which is positive for each employee of the NAV, especially positive for someone, more moderately positive for everyone, but positive for everyone. In the general debate, it was suggested that if we were to be able to answer those questions on the move, the opposition might be able to support this proposal. During the detailed debate phase, I believe that we have answered every single point, that we have discussed the proposals of the trade unions in many circles with the trade unions, that we have adopted countless of their proposals, and that there are obviously some more, because it is the task of the trade union to promote the best possible law. We have also adopted a number of very positive forward-looking measures, but there have been legal institutions that were no longer possible. Typically, almost all of these proposals were due to the lack of support for compliance with the government administrative law. [[20.50]] We also need to ensure that the relationship between the employees of the government and those of the ministry and those of the background institutions is a fair relationship with the NAV, and therefore, due to compliance with the government's administrative law, a number of forward-looking measures could not be implemented. These were presented in detail in the detailed discussion phase. We also gave a detailed list to colleagues in the Judicial Committee, and yet they did not support the proposal, and then the same proposals were put forward once again in the Legislative Committee, and now in the final debate, there are exactly the same proposals that we have given a concrete answer about why they cannot be supported. These have typically objective external causes. I would have liked it if we could finally come up with a proposal from a debtor that was subject to a public agreement and that opposition parties could support it. I'm sorry if that's not the case. I would also like to confirm, on the proposal of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, that we have received a great deal of proposals from the trade unions. We had several discussions with them. So the final material includes their input, their suggestions as well. Finally, I would also like to confirm that this law closes an integration process that started in 2011 and I trust that, as Congressman Nacsa said, a forward-looking government or legal status law that facilitates the work of the NAV can be implemented. I request the support of the Members in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-313	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the Act on the Status of Personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/13467. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-314	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13467 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the Act on the status of personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 3 against and 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In 2011, an organizational integration started with the establishment and adoption of the National Tax and Customs Office Act, whereby the tax office and the customs authorities were organised, thus creating an organisation with specific law enforcement and classic authority functions. The proposed legislation envisages the amendment of almost 70 other laws in order to incorporate the newly regulated tax and customs service relationship into the legal system. It is therefore also appropriate to amend a number of laws containing compliance, conflict of interest or other provisions concerning the staff of the NAV or the service of the staff. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-315	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Izer if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. You have 15 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. Time frame distribution: Fidesz 27, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9, MSZP 9, DK 7, LMP 6, Dialogue 5, Independents 4 minutes. The members' speeches will follow. Honourable Members, I'll ask if anyone wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm not going to ask you how the Secretary of State reflected it, because there's nothing to do, but I'm going to ask you if you'd like to say something. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-30-316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm gonna take this opportunity to give you a short closing. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 3 November 2020, the Government submitted to the National Assembly the T/13467 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the Act on the status of personnel of the National Tax and Customs Office. Bill No. 1. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The Legislative Committee has tabled amendments containing a number of technical clarifications which do not substantially affect the content of the bill. Dear Parliament, The bill introduces the legal status and legal status introduced by the new legal status law discussed in the previous paragraph, creating a higher level of harmonisation in the legislation concerned. The bill also establishes a committee responsible for the whitening of a sustainable economy as a further step in government action against the black and grey economy. The Committee will not act on specific matters, but will be responsible for initiating measures to whiten the economy and measuring the effectiveness of the measures taken. In addition to contributing to the creation of a uniform, modern status for NAV employees, which is consistent with the general concept of government administration, the bill also serves to reduce the black economy. In light of what has been said, I call for the support of honourable Members for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-317	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Governmental Personality Assistance System and the preliminary amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/13469. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13469 on the Governmental Personality Decision Support System. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 11 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the proposal submitted is to establish the scope of Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The legal basis for a modular decision support system, based on modern IT bases, which responds adequately to the challenges posed by the 20th century. The regulatory environment of the CCPD will be ensured by legislation on the one hand, and by government regulation on the other hand, to be established on the basis of a mandate. Dear House, The basic objective of the creation of the KSzDR is to develop and implement a government information system to support the efficiency and professionality of human resources management in the public service and to support the whole public service sector. KSZDR is the government's personnel information system, which is responsible for providing accurate and up-to-date information on the data of public administration, law enforcement personnel relevant to the functioning and development of the state, providing full information on the organisational and staffing conditions of the public bodies covered by its scope, and operating a monitoring and reporting system that meets the research needs of top managers, professional managers, employers and current information and public science fields. It should be stressed that the introduction of the KSDR will allow the government to access statistics from the controlled basic personnel data of the public service bodies and analyses using additional data from other public source systems and databases in a much faster and automated manner than at present. As a result, government staff policy preparation can become more robust than before. It is important to note that the operation of the KSDR will fall within the remit and competence of the Minister of the Interior, who will be responsible for the development of a public service career and will be operated by the government's organisation as defined in the decree. Two elements concerning the CCPR constituents are recorded for all legal status laws, the data collection module and the statistical module. It should be noted that personal data will be entered into the data collection module on the one hand from a register containing data relevant to the CCPR and on the other hand from different specialised systems on the other hand. In contrast, data are recorded in an unidentifiable manner in the statistical module. Two additional elements will be specifically applied only for certain legal statuses. One is the job registration system, which can only be interpreted for government administrations and the other is the basic registration and administration system for persons, which will be introduced in central government administrations and in law enforcement bodies for the purpose of managing personal records. [[21.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, The bill will also carry out the 2012/18 on the management of the risk of major accidents involving dangerous substances. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, Seveso III. The amendments necessary to transpose this Directive into national law are also necessary. This is why it is also necessary to remedy the shortcomings of the disaster management law, as stated by the European Commission. It should also be pointed out that this bill is carried out by the Constitutional Court on 23/2020. In addition, amendments to the law necessary to eliminate the failure to comply with the fundamental law laid down in its decision. Therefore, the law on the local governments of Hungary is amended, which makes it clear and clear that the decency of the municipal representative and the mayor must be declared by the body of representatives only if the final judgment is reached during the term of office. However, it should also be added that, at the same time as declaring unworthy, the right to vote as a candidate will not be reduced. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI In line with the needs of the 20th century, the proposal submitted serves to a sufficient extent to make the basis for government organisational and staff policy decisions more effective and should therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-319	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. You have 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, Here are the timeframes: Fidesz 27, KDNP 13, Jobbik 9, MSZP 9, DK 7, LMP 6, Dialogue 5, Independents have 4 minutes. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. We now have speeches from Members. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to give his opinion now. Here you are, Secretary of State, Károly Kontra.
u2020-11-30-320	Not as a response, because I cannot react, but I would like to say so much, Mr President, honourable Parliament, that I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tabled and the summarised amendment tabled to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-30-321	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our later meeting and I also welcome my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/13474. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear House, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2015 CXLIII on public procurement. Act T/13474, amending certain related laws A bill with a paper number. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 2 against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal is to provide the Kbt with experience in the application of the public procurement acquis. present the existing legal provisions in its rules and bring them into line with the recent case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of public procurement. In addition, the bill expresses the government's efforts to cut red tape, simplify and speed up procedures as well as, in the context of economic protection government measures, it also serves to mitigate the economic impact of the Crown Virus pandemic by ensuring easier participation of economic operators in public procurement procedures. One of the main reasons for preparing the bill is the need to reduce administrative burdens and speed up public procurement procedures. Another important aspect was to reduce the burden on businesses in order to facilitate the recovery from the economic crisis as soon as possible. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-323	Thank you. I am now ordering a two-minute technical break for the rapporteur's benefit. [[It's a short break. Dr. Balázs Orbán enters the Chamber.]] Honourable Parliament! We'll get back to work. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he wishes to react at the end of the debate. Dear House, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The time frame is divided into 27 minutes for Fidesz, 13 minutes for KDNP, 9 minutes for Jobbik, 9 minutes for MSZP, 7 minutes for DK, 6 minutes for LMP, 5 minutes for Dialogue and 4 minutes for Independents. There are now speeches by Members in this time frame. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán says no.]] The Secretary of State also does not wish to make a statement. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following a series of amendments to Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/13475. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go. Congressman Salacz isn't here either. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State once again that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I do not wish.]] No. [[21.10]] Then I would like to point out, Honourable Parliament, that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. Share: Fidesz 27 minutes, KDNP 13 minutes, Jobbik 9 minutes, MSZP 9 minutes, DK 7 minutes, LMP 6 minutes, Dialogue 5 minutes, Independent 4 minutes. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week or when there was a general debate on this bill, there really was a debate here in this House, and I would like to continue this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: So are we!]] Because you've proven with the TAB modification that you really wanted to put the president of the Balaton Development Council into custody. I told you that once there were three such regional development councils, then why only one of them thought that even the Ministry of Finance had to pass the Prime Minister's Office. The other two were also placed under guardianship as TAB modifiers. This is a confession from you, you can see, because in the explanatory statement it was also that the public funds were not used properly, i.e. they assumed that the use of public funds in these councils had not been properly used. Then I'll ask you what kind of tests are going to start or what tests are going to start. But the fact that they've escaped from the two other regional development councils is your confession. So I really hope that other opposition proposals like this will be adopted someday, because I really just said, "Well, then, let's do it with the other two." Well, then I think we should figure out what we want you to do here in the opposition benches, because, apparently, in recent times, only one opposition proposal has not been able to be followed. Then it came to the regional development council not to be a president, but to have a co-chairing system. Even though my fellow Member, Mr Bartos, said in the general debate that it would not even increase the administration, you know that, but it was more important for you to have this custody here, so that it could be better done than all three of them. So, I trust that there will be laws that we will tell you in this debate what we want, and you will, by chance, hear and do. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-325	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, head of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-326	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Continuing with the Member's speech, I will make a proposal in a moment, perhaps I will not surprise Mr Nacsa. I propose that the nearly a thousand billion-dollar project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line be stopped, and that the amount that will amount to 200 billion this year and next year, be devoted to the development of the Hungarian Hungarian sideline network. Thus, the railway development will remain, but for the sake of a project that makes sense in stopping the break-off of the Hungarian countryside. Obviously, the Member spoke half-funnyly to this proposal, but there is nothing funny about it. What I can tell you is that one of the biggest crimes of the post-2010 and pre-2010 government period is that they have not been able to do anything about the task of territorial development and that they have not been able to use the sources of inflow successfully in order to really move the country towards sustainable development and development, and they have done nothing to develop the rural areas that are falling apart. We can see that there have been virtually four domestic regions between the 20 poorest regions of the Union since the accession of the EU, and if we look at the territorial differences within these regions, we see absolutely shocking data, shocking numbers and shocking situations. So there are, unfortunately, more and more rural crisis regions in Hungary that you have apparently abandoned. We could list for a long time the policy mistakes and omissions that have been made, and I would like to add that I always like to emphasise, because it is important what your predecessors did before 2010, which are contrary to what is in the interest of the Hungarian people and the people who are basically living in the countryside. I can tell you that there is basically a conceptual problem in development policy here, and this proposal is also about ensuring that development policy can be centralised as much as possible and that decision-making and decision-making on spending resources are brought closer and closer to the circles of government, all the way to the fire, so that these decisions can be taken at the centre of the centre. But the point of territorial development, development policy, is that these decisions should be taken to the level where they can take them most responsibly and with good professionalism, and should be given the opportunity, let us say, to the local authorities to comment on this, and even to make a decision. Your proposal is centralization, and it is indeed a guardianship of the President of the Balaton Development Council, who is doing his job very well, and I say this despite being the mayor of Balatonfüred, a pro-government mayor. What I'm saying is that you should appreciate the people in your line of work who do well. Perhaps you can see that the critical voices coming from your side are getting stronger and more frequent, and you may have read the statement of the mayor of Székesfehérvár today. I think you should pay attention to these words, these critical statements, and try to correct them at least within your own system. I have a question for the Secretary of State. Not long ago, the government made a decision to appoint regional development commissioners, and this system is a little too opaque, even by your standards, to be so sure, so sure, such a governor, such a governor. What is coherence in this system? That's a very interesting thing to do. Minister Palkovics had his hearing today, and the Minister has some amazing, gigantic portfolio within the Ministry of Innovation, so it is amazing what areas, policy areas he covers, and then he was entrusted with such regional Commissioner tasks, Mr Kósa, Minister of Ministers or Government Commissioner in his region, or I do not know what the title of Minister Palkovics is for this consideration. But what is reality? Does the Minister really have time to address such regional development coordination tasks? Amazing! So you centralize, centralise, reproduce structures, but the results are devastating, territorial development and regional development are devastating, and we can say that they are actually working with the efficiency of the Balliberal governments that preceded you before 2010 to stop the break-off of the countryside, in Hungarian: they cannot achieve meaningful results. In such debates, there is always a long list of what they have done for the villages, for rural areas, but when we look at the numbers, the numbers we can get from, say, the offices you run, we can see that we are basically going in the wrong direction. Here, for example, I have said many times that the state of the rural lower road network does not improve year after year, but is deteriorating year after year, so every year more roads are ruined or longer stages are ruined than are fixed. However, today, Minister Palkovics has not been able to give a meaningful answer to these questions, for example, when we are going to get to the point where the poor quality, low-ranking share of the rural lower road network is decreasing year by year, so they are starting to work down the disadvantages of the difficult legacy before 2010. I can basically say that this development policy is wrong, and we could expect a substantial change if they were to fundamentally transform this approach in terms of structure, let us say, look around. By the way, I have seen many examples myself, while I was a member of the Committee of the Region, of how development policy is organised and how much more effective the system that has been developed, where appropriate, in Poland, for example, within the Vojvodinas. I think, if we look at the Polish example, they can't even have ideological problems. They should not be sensitive, they should look at how development policy is done there, and then we could get to the point that the available development resources could be used much more efficiently, in principle, for development and for catching up in the countryside. This bill does not go in this direction, so the LMP faction will vote no. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-327	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-328	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The last ten, but rather, I would say that there have been unprecedented developments in the last seven years, which Hungary, the Hungarian population, has been waiting for for for a very long time. In a number of places, from high-priority large investments to very important developments from very small amounts, there are, by the way, continuous and constant development concepts, from the road network to tourism, through the Hungarian village programme to the programmes of modern cities, and there are countless, countless developments that we could talk about here all night. I think it's a very, very important direction, and you can't stop here, you can't stop here. You know very well that there are ten development areas and development councils, of which there are three priorities, which we are talking about here in the context of the bill. We have said before: delegates of ministers who link government strategies and government coordination. Let's see, Congresswoman, the Balaton area, how many ministries are responsible for the development there within the government. Water, transport, tourism, business development, agriculture, conservation of monuments, and there are a lot of things that can be described here, how diverse the concept of developments in the area of Lake Balaton is. [[21.20]] It is important to have a man there, a delegate there, who performs the government strategy and government coordination, to go effectively, to be faster, to be more transparent, and to make this system much more effective, so that these improvements can be achieved as soon as possible, for the people and visitors there. This is the aim, and therefore it is important that in such a diverse, complex area, where there are many different areas involved, areas of competence, competences involved with different government bodies, there should be a coordination. You can tell me that putting him in foster care, this is a good political pamphlet, it sounds good to put him in foster care. What we are talking about here is that we need a more effective job so that these developments can be implemented as soon as possible, as quickly and more transparently as possible in the interests of locals and visitors. We are in favour of improvements and we are trying to make decisions so that these developments can take place in Tokaj-Hegyalya, in the Central Hungary, Danube region or just around Lake Balaton, and throughout the country, only because we are talking about the three priorities now, so I mentioned these. We're on the side of development, so don't stop these improvements from getting ready. Thank you.
u2020-11-30-329	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I never said I didn't need any improvements. We always said there should be improvements, just don't steal half of them. So you can see what's happening at Lake Balaton. These properties, which are now being sold, are quite simply the traipsing of the state's wealth. Because it can be said that yes, it was estimated how much those properties cost, for example, at the camping site in Balatonboglár the property was sold at a billion dollars. Yeah, it's just that it's not going to be for the Hungarian people anymore, but it's going to be for private investment, and there's going to be apartment houses. You know that. They will not keep it in their camping nature, that is not your goal, but to build the Balaton and shut it down from the Hungarian people. And when we raise our voices like this, we raise our voices against this; not that we do not want the playgrounds on the beaches to be prepared, be there a pool, water blocks to be renewed, or be ready for a coastguard, which we have been waiting for for for at least years on the south shore. We can only see that the wind has changed in the climate, and now the south wind is blowing through the north shore with the water and those litters. That's what you should be thinking about, not the fact that you're traipsing up real estate, and now, when you're two co-chairs, you're gonna have a good discussion on the shore of Lake Balaton. I still believe that Mayor Bóka has repeatedly expressed government measures that he does not like, for example, the construction of the apartment house next to the observatory, and then suddenly there is such a proposal that he should not be the president of the BFT alone now, but the co-chair. Why didn't you have to do that before? Now it's all out of the blue, because Mayor Fox, for example, went against government communication. You can paint the big I don't know what's on the wall, but it's the truth. You know that, and it would have been embarrassing to say that he was okay, then don't; you'd rather have stuck this measure in the other two. I just can't say anything about that anymore. That's what you see in your development ideas, especially at Lake Balaton. And I'm telling you, the problem isn't that the beaches are being developed. We're just hoping that those beach upgrades are made with exactly the same amount of money that's written on the board. 'Cause the other day, I went to a beach, and then the green surface wasn't really done. And in the meantime, it's already signed off on a performance certificate. That's what we should be talking about. And in the Balaton Development Council's own proposals, I really hope that this will be the most important thing that will be taken into account next, so that what is a successful tender in public procurement will indeed be made of, and indeed the technical content that is in the best interest of the people and the tourists who arrive there. Because I see one of the biggest problems in this, and that's what, by the way, is a trend not only at Lake Balaton, but also at national level. That should change, but very, very urgently. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-331	Thank you, Congresswoman. Before I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, I'd like to inform you that you have 14 seconds. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-332	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I just want to give Congressman Nacsa a return answer. You were talking about efficiency. Then how could it have happened that in ten years, under your administration, the proportion of back roads in bad condition has increased by 12 percentage points? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How is it that the proportion of waterworks in bad condition has doubled and the number of failures has doubled, and how is it that in ten years you have spent virtually nothing on railway lines in the countryside, and now you have virtually stopped passenger transport on 34 lines? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-333	Thank you, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-334	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would just like to react briefly, first of all, in relation to the inaccuracies that have been said, and then I would like to talk a few sentences about the purpose of the bill. Firstly, the Member mentioned that the explanatory statement would be a reference to the misuse of development resources. Now I've looked at the explanatory statement again, there's no such reference. I'd be surprised if I did, though I don't think I should say it. The fence is made of sausage, and everything happens perfectly in Hungary, but this is not the purpose of the bill, and the purpose of the bill is precisely written down in the explanatory memorandum, and then I will talk about it later, and it is quite clear to you too, but let us not wash the two things together. It's okay for you to assume it's connected to this, but it's not in the explanatory statement. The issue of development resources: I do not want to repeat the general debate on speeches before today's agenda, and a number of indicators could be drawn up here. I understand that opposition representatives, in fact tactics or rhetoric, are focusing on certain indicators and that we are giving a general opinion on development policy in relation to certain indicators. Then allow me to bring here a quote from a larger scale, which was also made during the speeches before the agenda. The German Chancellor, Mrs Angela Merkel, says that the Central European countries, and in particular Hungary, make good use of EU funds, which are mainly resources related to territorial development. He says this for a reason, because the distance from which he looks at these things, and the horizontal vision that he deals with this issue, in which the macroeconomic figures are software and hard data related to lifestyle, the data that you mentioned, the data that the pro-government representatives referred to, all in all, say that the objective on which the European Union gives these resources is met by the countries of Central Europe and within Hungary, it is well known that the European Union is approaching its average level of development. In addition, in recent years we have seen a refreshing development, especially in the period before 2010 and in the period of financial consolidation between 2010-14, unfortunately not as much or less as we would have liked to see the Hungarian budget be able to place not only the minimum necessary own contribution, but also in addition to the development priorities and logic of EU funds, which are important, but there are sometimes disharmonies between national targets and EU targets... so, beyond the self-financing and the self-financing of EU funds, it can finance several thousand billion HUF investments from its own budget line, all over the country. We must look for the lines in the Hungarian budget, Member and Member. I wish the situation had been that before 2010 there would have been lines of such life and real financial resources in the Hungarian budgets at that time! Then we should do much less work now, some of which you referred to. And if you look at the fundamentally difficult economic situation in the context of the coronal virus epidemic, I would also like to remind you that, in addition to the fact that EU funds are available, in addition to the fact that the Hungarian own contribution to EU funds is available, in addition to the fact that development resources that have been planned for the Hungarian budget since before the crisis, we have spent even more resources on these infrastructure development and territorial development projects in this difficult situation as a result of the decision of the Hungarian Parliament. [[21.30]] If you look at the numbers available for the Hungarian village programme; if you look at the family support, you will see the aid for the development of real estate; if you look at the additional resources related to the implementation of the programme, if you look at the individual area support schemes that come before the public, because the government accepts the associated strategies in a row, you will see that even in this difficult situation, the government's strategy of not saving in this area must continue to catch up and that as many budgetary resources as possible should be allocated to these areas. And in this sense, we are also, in fact, working with an open budget from above. So what you are saying is that, at this time, there would be little development resources, that we would move away from the European core states, that we would hold back these developments, that is simply not true. This bill is about the fact that there are key development councils that carry out coordination and planning tasks in relation to a particular region. These concern a number of areas, a number of areas that are otherwise very diverse in sociocultural and economic situations. If we look at these areas on the basis of the government's responsibilities and powers, we also see that problems, opportunities and challenges in these areas fall within the remit and competence of several ministers, so the government has decided to appoint separate government commissioners for these areas. So when you asked me that there was a connection between the two, you weren't in the wrong place, because there is a connection, the government appointed a government commissioner to coordinate these developments. It is necessary to appoint a government commissioner because this office is precisely capable of working together and coordinating tasks between various ministers without the establishment of ministerial bureaucracy. So, as Secretary of State, if anyone gave me such a task, I would not be able to assign a task to the Secretary of State of another Ministry and ask him for a task. This is simply not what internal government decision-making mechanisms look like. When it comes to inter-ministerial affairs and the coordination of major development issues, we either create a wallet, create bureaucracy, or employ such government commissioners who, by their political weight, have the capacity to carry out these coordination instructions, and have the legal authority to do so. That's why we need government commissioners, and that's exactly what these areas need. So the fact that there are such government commissioners and that they can appear in regional development councils will benefit the Central Danube, the Tokaj wine region and Balaton. So I would like to continue to ask you not to oppose this bill on these grounds, especially not to be more papal than the Pope. So it's weird when opposition representatives for the sovereignty of pro-government representatives [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We are worried about you!]] and worry about its own decision-making competence. So do not do this, but understand that this amendment of the law in this new territorial development coordination logic is for the benefit of the people in this area. And I'm asking you to support this bill. Those who have done so, or have spoken about it here in Parliament today, I would like to thank you for your support. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws to introduce the home-creation action plan and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/13477. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear House, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-336	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13477 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the introduction of the home creation action plan. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. The president accepted by 33 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The amendment aims to establish a rate of general turnover tax of 5% in the case of the sale of new housing for social policy purposes. It also exempts families with children from paying a fee for the purchase of new and used apartments in order to facilitate their home creation. According to the proposal, after the purchase of a new apartment completed from 1 January 2021 and the construction on turnkey with the so-called general contractor, only 5% VAT is payable. This means that if the construction of a residential building started in or after 2020 is completed after 1 January 2021, the invoice issued for it or, if it has not yet been built, the stage of construction, the degree of preparedness will be reached on 1 January 2021, the sub-account issued may bear the lower key. The reduced VAT rate may be applied until 31 December 2022, but it is important to facilitate that real estate the construction of which has not yet been completed or has not even begun, but has at least a construction permit or a simple notification, may be subject to a reduced rate of 5% for a further four years until the end of 2026. The lower key applies to all individuals who purchase a new apartment of no more than 150 square meters or a new family house of no more than 300 square meters. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-337	Thank you. Dear House, I'll ask the author... [[On Róbert Zsigó's signal:]] In the end, signify Secretary of State. Thank you very much. The designated Economic Committee has not drawn up a rapporteur, honourable Members. I now give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-338	Mr President, Dear House, During the general debate phase, I think there were worlds colliding. And it is very rare to make a proposal where, in addition to saying the word "support" we still have a lot of criticism on the other side, but this is typically such a proposal. I don't want to get rid of the support for the construction of newly built apartments, the importance of that. I would add that I would also be interested in Mr State Secretary's personal opinion if we were to support the purchase and construction of new-built apartments, then it would not be appropriate to introduce a certain ceiling in this system. I am very concerned with my sense of justice by the fact that the government often does not support people living in apartments, pre-saving people for housing purposes, the first young Hungarians who drive for used housing, and, in the case of newly built residential dwellings, without a ceiling of ten million units, where appropriate. I'm not sorry about anyone, but for practical reasons, I think it would be possible to argue about setting some kind of ceiling here, and the amount released could be transferred to, say, the CSOK's used property support system, and a much larger grant volume, where appropriate, in the form of less preferential loans and more subsidies. I understand the intention, by the way, because the market for new-built apartments is in an amazing deep-flying decade-long perspective compared to previous decades. There is a reason for this in the world economy, there is a sociocultural reason, but what we see is that, while the number of new-built properties transferred in 2002 was 30 grand in size, they are now very happy with a value of 17 thousand; and under this governance, there were 12 thousand, too. [[21.40]] We can see that it was also mentioned here in the general debate that, back in the previous decade, which was hit by the economic crisis, in the 2000s, which was not an economic success period, there was also about 30 thousand figures. One of the pro-government representatives noted that, of course, because foreign exchange lending had fueled the market. The fact is, before these Swiss-Frank-based killer products began to be systematically distributed, they were already 25-30 thousand new-built numbers in the area. From this, we managed to sink and sink from over 20,000 to 12,000 by 2010, and now back to 17. But what we see is that if new real estates are transferred at this rate, the Hungarians change their real estate stock every 200-250 years, which is obviously nonsense in the long run. I understand, therefore, that they are trying to spin the market for new-built apartments. I think it would be much easier to keep this 5% VAT if necessary in the long term. Of course, it is possible to support the return of the tax relief, but what the Secretary of State said last time, we simply could not place where it would be, that when they felt that a lot of real estate was on the market, they would take it back from the reduced VAT. The thing is, there hasn't been a lot of real estate on the market in the last ten years. The fact is that with the number of 17,000 transferred, new-built real estate, this simply cannot be supported professionally, it cannot be stated. The fact is that the Hungarian market for newly built real estate has come back from a value of 30-40,000, the capacity would be available for a larger number, and what is missing is a public housing and home creation program. That would add an extra 5 to 10,000 a year. This would remove supply constraints on the market, thus also reducing rent prices. Let's not take it as a government achievement that after the launch of the brutal sublet price, the market will be settled by the unfortunate crisis caused by Covid. There is no way to give an "A" certificate for this. And we also see that the typical Hungarian life situations are being left out again, and that is why we argued a lot last time, and also on demographic issues, because today the person who, let's say, is thinking about starting a family or having a child can do this quite rightly, not in a new-built residential property, is not the typical Hungarian living situation. The capital III. In the district where I live, there's a lot of 60,000 panels in our neighborhood, people there, Mr. Secretary, can't even dream about it. So you can see that we are seeing parallel Hungarys. Obviously, everyone gets feedback from their own opinion bubble, and I accept it in the Facebook world, even if this world is a little foreign to me sometimes, at least in this respect. But what you have to see is that the typical Hungarian life situation is not what you're giving away, but the typical situation was that someone may have collected a part of a CSOK with pre-emptive housing savings, with the help of, say, a Fundamenta, which I was never a big fan of, and we agree that this was not the most effective form of pre-saving support, but at least there was state support and state leg of it. It's been stopped. During the general debate, when I said this, Mr Secretary of State did not respond to this. But since then, the news has arrived from the professional teams and associations of the managers of the condominiums, and they have said that yes, the very unfortunate situation has come to pass, that without the aided housing savings, many condominiums cannot replace boilers, as the condominiums and residential communities have been able to save themselves in this supported form, to churn up enough to implement the necessary technical improvements or even exchanges. Now they can't do that in any way. We've come to the conclusion that these circles are not favored, that the government supports, and that the newly built dwellings are without the upper limit. It is also very strange to me that a secretary of state coming into Parliament can praise this construction without any remorse, and with this praise I alone have no problem, but not a word about the fact that, while supporting the raising of newly built apartments, the same government assists the eviction of thousands. So on one side, he supports the luckiest ones in home creation, on the other side he doesn't say a word, when, not two weeks ago, not years ago, not before 2010, but two weeks ago, when the executives excited their activities, dozens of Hungarian families were evicted by you knowing about this. I've presented five or six cases here in Parliament myself, but I'm sure these cases, descriptions, distress messages will find their way to your mailboxes. We also see that we have a lot of work to do. The package before us is eligible, but it is simply not credible to talk about family-friendly governance, as long as it supports the most fortunate in a neoliberal manner, those in difficulty, but also demographic, and those with family policy goals, let alone do not support them, but do not mention them in Parliament. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to develop solutions for these circles, to have a saying, to have a message for them as well. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-11-30-339	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-30-340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal, as we believe it is important that the state supports the access of families to housing in as many ways as possible. At the same time, it would be important to achieve this as widely as possible and, above all, to help those who need it more. We therefore continue to propose that the support system be designed in such a way that it serves to increase the number of housing constructions at the same time and that it is fair not only to create homes for families in a better financial situation, but also for all, because we believe that everyone should have a chance, and that there should be courage to intervene in the interests of raising the underprivileged. We consider it important to build the local government's social housing and the government's support for the renovation of the apartments, on the basis of a new housing law. I would also like to say that, compared to housing prices and rents, the number of salaries is too low, many young people are forced to emigration, which makes Hungary's demographic crisis worse. This is why we consider it necessary to provide government support for municipal social housing and housing renovation, but these apartments should not be sold. That is why we are initiating a housing law that introduces the rent and housing ceiling. We will support the proposal in any way, as I have indicated. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-341	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] Honourable Parliament! The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-342	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Just very briefly, I don't want to abuse anyone's patience at this late hour. Congressman Z. Kárpat has said seven times that we are trying to help the world of newly built residential parks. I would like to say to Mr President that if you say this seven more times, it will not be true. We have just begun the biggest home-building program in recent decades. That's got five points. There are two out of the five points in this bill, in the bill we are discussing now, the VAT on new constructions, the tax exemption, and the other three points will be in different regulations, one of which was also published last week, this is the regulation on home renovation. If we are talking about trying to help those who start a family as widely as possible, having children, raising children, then, for example, our home renovation program is like this, since everyone who raises at least one child can participate in it. The state undertakes that half of the renovation costs, up to HUF 3 million, will pay back to these people who are renovating their apartments, and the program did not start out to be rich or wealthy at all, but to virtually everyone. But another... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] I didn't say a word, Congressman, when you spoke. In another forthcoming regulation, we will try to support the multigenerational home creation, which is about young people who do not want or cannot move to a separate home in the first home, whether with their parents, grandparents, or with one of their relatives, to get a home with a rooftop space. In addition, I think that we are taking these measures in the crisis caused by the current coronal virus epidemic, in addition to helping families and taking economic considerations into account, because we are also helping employers, businesses and workers, because we are trying to create or preserve jobs and to help the economy. [[21.50]] I think that this programme really deserves to be supported. This programme does not stand alone, because since 2010, we have made countless decisions, and I can also say that we have tried to put all the tools at our disposal in the direction of achieving the goal of having the desired children in Hungary, and that everyone should have a proper roof over their heads. I can say the baby shower support, the family home-building discount, the interest-supported loan, and the steps that the government has taken to really support the Hungarian families. I also thank everyone in the Parliament, in the committees, for their criticism and for their helpful proposals for helping us to really help families. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-30-343	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1997 LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment of the Act to the increase in the baby care fee. Government referral T/13665. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First of all, I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to do so... [[Robert Zsigó: In the end.]] Then at the end, thank you very much. Dear House, The designated People's Welfare Committee has not presented a rapporteur, so here are the speeches from its representatives. I give the floor to Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-344	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, As I indicated in the debate, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support these proposals for raising the family. My only question was why they were waiting another six months, because the Prime Minister announced it nine months ago, which means that child has practically been conceived since then. In any case, I think that there is still something to be corrected in the bill, for example, that it further increases the inequalities between families, because parents who do not have 365 days of insurance prior to the birth of the child cannot obtain entitlement to the family, so they only get the child, which amounts to HUF 28 500. In 2018, the average monthly gross amount of csed was 178 903 HUF, when it was calculated from 70 percent of the income. Your ched, you don't have a maximum amount, they didn't charge you, they didn't charge you, they didn't charge you. With the current increase in the ched, the difference between the amount of the two benefits, if calculated correctly, will continue to grow, and the child and the law will not be raised. There is a serious question, isn't there, why the state is making a distinction between children and children, so I would like to say that the MSZP is in favour of increasing the support of children's educators, but it is unacceptable that the government will continue to increase inequalities between families with children. You talk about working mothers in your bill, but I think that a non-working mother is also a real mother, so I don't think that the child should be judged by the fact that his parents were working earlier, and it would be good to know how to help women's position in the labour market. So I would like to say in any way that we cannot limit the possibilities of any child to his place of birth or to his family's position of property. We socialists say that not only should we support the upbringing of the unborn child, but also those who have already been born, because every child deserves the same help and support, I think there is no way to distinguish between them. But as I indicated, the bill will be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction in any way. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-30-345	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-346	Mr President, Dear House, I am also very pleased that the real question arises as to why this raised opportunity will not be paid out from 1 January, which is a good opportunity, so let's be clear, and it really cannot be tied up by either pro-government or opposition. I would also like to capacitate to the Secretary of State that he should somehow go through your State Secretaryship and Ministry to think about two more areas, one of which is to increase the amount of sick money to 100 percent in the epidemiological emergency, as this would be a particularly important form of support for all those working in vulnerable jobs, and also for children, as I think we have a common fear: in Hungary, many people are forced to go into work with illness or symptoms, for reasons of living, and I know that everyone is in good faith in relation to their family members and their environment, but many of them do not necessarily make the best decisions in their fear of inability, and I think that getting sick money up to 100 percent would also make it easier to make the right decisions in the case of such dilemmas. This would be particularly important not only from a public health point of view, because unfortunately there is such a phenomenon in Hungary, but also clearly in terms of the care of children and the safety of families. Finally, there is no way to avoid the issue of family allowance on this subject, where I have always been a great opposition to simply raising family allowance, and then spending it on something, because again I am in good faith 90-95 percent sure that these resources are well used, but I propose a family card scheme so that the increased amount of the family allowance cannot in any way end up in the recreational products market, or, say, in the alcohol products market. For this reason, this increase could be used for the product scope, basic foods, and, most importantly, child-rearing products, but in any case, it could be increased by up to 30-50 percent by bringing in inflation monitoring, and I will say it only once again on a family card, from a child-protection approach. I would like to say once again that in terms of sick pay, I would not accuse anyone of having bad faith, so I do not say that he goes into work on a sick person, and that there is no such thing, but I would say that for a very large number of people, it is a serious dilemma that they have to choose: if they cannot go or go into work, they may lose their jobs, they may lose their income, which is why many people may be flirting with ideas that should not be done in normal times, and I would like us to jointly facilitate the dilemmas of these fellow citizens, their lives, because if they were to remain at home, they would be entitled to a hundred percent of the sick money, then these dilemmas might be a bit behind. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to make sure that these points are passed through the system, even if they are not strictly part of this item on the agenda, but also have a fundamental influence on the subject on this item on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-30-347	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Again, I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to respond. [[Róbert Szigó rises to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-11-30-348	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also try to be brief. Congresswoman Gurmai has literally said that there is still room for improvement on the bill; Mr Z. Mr. Karpat has joined the congresswoman, by the way: why are we not introducing this from 1 January? There was a debate in this on the general debate. I can only tell you that if there is still something to be done on the bill and you have a proposal, I will state the fact that there is nothing new here that the bill has been tabled by the government, the Parliament has discussed it in the general debate, and no one has tabled an amendment to it. Now, at the end of the debate, it is difficult to see why there are no proposals to amend it... and I can't do much with that right now, if you'll excuse me. [[22.00]] Of course, I agree with the congresswoman, every mother is important, and even the work of every parent for her child, at work or anywhere is important. I don't even want to make a difference, because we really care about every child. This is why, among other things, we have made progress in terms of female employment over the past period, and that is why we have taken a number of measures that are important for raising children. After 2010, there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary, and I say only a few elements: we have returned the previously abstract family tax relief, by the way, 95 percent of those entitled to family benefits can take advantage of the family tax allowance, we have traced back to the third year of the child, and according to the current bill, one of the milestones of this family support system is the baby care fee, raising the amount of the family allowance from 70 percent to 100 percent. This means that mothers can earn 100 percent of their previous gross wages, and, as the congresswoman said, no contributions but personal income tax, so mothers can earn more now than when they worked. I think that every step that we have taken over the past period has helped to raise children, to raise children, and I can promise you that in the coming period, we will continue to do everything we can to help mothers and families to raise children, to teach them, to make homes for them. I can say the same thing as those of you who have helped us before, thank you all for your help. I thank you for your support in this bill as well as in the previous bill. I hope that in tomorrow's vote, this will also be achieved by pressing the 'yes' ballot button. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-349	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2005 CLXIV on trade. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. Presentation by representatives of Lajos Kósa, Fidesz-, Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP T/13653. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I ask the authors how they wish to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] The authors indicate that they would like to speak at the end of the debate. I therefore ask you now that the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. (To be indicated: ) No. Then, I would like to say, Mr House, that the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur, and it is now possible to speak with its Members. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. For the first time, I ask the Secretary of State how he wishes to react. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State is not responding. Speakers? (To be indicated: ) Since there's nothing to do, they don't want to react either. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, So the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain consumer protection laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/13479. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I give the floor to Adam Hey, David, the speaker of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-350	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13479 on the amendment of certain consumer protection laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 37 votes to two, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill essentially contains legislative amendments for EU harmonisation purposes, which, among other things, record the subject of dual quality, declaring that goods are marketed in one Member State as if they were identical to the same goods marketed in another Member State, while the composition or characteristics of the goods are not justified by legitimate and objective factors, there are significant differences. One of the most important elements of the bill is therefore the creation of a legal background for countering double quality. Hungary was among the first to indicate the dual quality of the products purchased in the European Union in 2017, since it is unacceptable for the Hungarian government to discriminate against domestic consumers. It was therefore a primary objective to establish EU legislation to eliminate the above practice, which is indeed capable of eliminating this phenomenon. On 11 April 2018, the European Commission presented its legislative proposals on the modernisation of the EU's consumer protection acquis in a package of proposals for the new deal for consumers, i.e. the new agreement for consumer interests. The package of proposals points to real problems, e-commerce, and, as I said earlier, about the dual quality of products. The importance of this proposal is therefore given by the fact that, after its adoption, it provides the legal basis for taking action against the dual quality of products. On this basis, double quality will be sanctioned by the Consumer Protection Authority as a case of unfair commercial practice by means of an official procedure. Under the rules, practices where goods are marketed in one Member State in such a way that they are identical in their brand name and in their appearance to goods marketed in other Member States will be considered unfair, but there are significant differences in composition or other characteristics, unless justified by legitimate and objective factors. On the issue of dual quality of products, the medium-term objective is to reduce the phenomenon as effectively as possible in order to eliminate misleading practices both in the EU and in the domestic market. The long-term objective is to completely eliminate double quality. The NDC's history of e-commerce was the Fitness Assessment carried out by the EC in 2017, in which it was found that EU consumer protection law facilitates the functioning of the single market and ensures a high level of consumer protection, but it was also noted that some parts of the consumer protection acquis need to be reviewed. On this basis, the current directive has been drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, there are a number of problems that have been identified in practice in the field of online commerce, such as the issue of false consumer assessments, search results or pre-buy information about whether the seller is a private individual or a business. The bill strengthens online consumer rights in view of the ongoing development of digital tools and makes further adjustments to the application of consumer protection legislation. The bill also contains additional elements that cannot be linked to the harmonisation of the NDC, which increase the efficiency of the domestic consumer protection institution system. In this way, it introduces mandatory electronic delivery to the conciliation bodies for businesses and gives consumers the opportunity to do so. It also amends the rules on energy labelling in the context of legal harmonisation, repeals the mandatory provision of a cooperation agreement on cooperation between the Consumer Protection Authority, the Hungarian Competition Authority and the Hungarian National Bank with regard to notification of procedures. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted deserves support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-351	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] No. Dear House, I would like to point out that the designated Economic Committee has not set up a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. So I give the floor to Daniel Z. Carpathian, the representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-352	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to emphasise that I welcome the proposal that, by declaring double quality as unfair commercial practice, puts new instruments before us. Our criticisms have already been formulated, and I find it completely unnecessary and uninteresting to repeat at this late hour. At the same time, I would like to encourage the domestic leaders of consumer protection and the best experts, because I know that the government is connected to them, that there is a need for further action here. Today, there is no way to escape from a consumer protection approach a series of amazing campaigns that can now be called Black Friday or Black Months, and the disgusting drivings associated with qualified consumer scams. As an athlete, let me give you one simple example: a few months ago we bought a spinning bike for 60,000 forints. Now, within the framework of the Black Friday action, the same thing came against me in an advertisement that was obviously thrown up by the algorithm, where 150,000 forints are nicely crossed over in the online ad, and for 59 999, on sale, they sell the product at the original price, which, if any, gives the impression that someone here is capable of realizing a serious discount. [[22.10]] I understand that the basic principles of the proposal before us are already moving towards the issue and that it has an impact on online trade in a tangible way. I would like to capacitate to develop a system of sanctions that can handle such amazing cases. And it was here, then, that I should say to the wider public that there was a kind of political reunion between the governing parties and Jobbik during the period 2010-2014, when perhaps the government felt uncomfortable raising the maximum of the multi-level fines itself, so a better fellow Member presented this, and finally the government supported this proposal. I would like to say that, of the literally thousands of right-wing amendments, this perhaps belonged to the three that the House finally adopted and could go through the system. But if we can provide this kind of help with the consumer protection tool system, we will be at the forefront. If the government does not want to give its name to toughen the sanctioning system, then it is worth accepting opposition amendments; perhaps not on this agenda, as the subject of another agenda could be the articulation and formulation of its own national sanctioning system. But I think that there is certainly room to move around, because the wild drivings of online commerce will be even worse in the coming years, and they will always be a year or two ahead of the regulatory environment and climate. This is the natural order and organic order of the world, so I do not want to criticize the professionals who deal with this area. Our lives in this area also have a constant follow-up attitude, but then let's be as quick as possible, as professionally as possible. Therefore, I would expect a strict sanction system from the profession and the government in order to bring up as few similar problems and examples as possible in the coming years, and not only implement foreign proposals, but also formulate their own ones. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-30-353	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-354	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We rarely talk about consumer protection here in this House, although this subject deserves much more, as my fellow Members have said from a variety of approaches, but we are talking about an authority that can do a great deal during its day-to-day operation in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian consumers and Hungarian families. Here we have discussed a number of issues that fall within the competence of consumer protection. I think it is outrageous that foods or products of dual or plural quality are sold within the European Union. This is what the substance of the proposal is about to do something about it. I think this is a perfectly correct and good idea for the government, but my better fellow Member is also right that there are still a number of areas where it would make sense to make some progress in this area. I would suggest that it is not only the Dráko rigour that can bring results because this is what my better fellow Member has been talking about, that very serious penalties should be imposed in the event of various unfair market behaviours, that I would encourage the government to spend as much on authority and official work as possible, since the Consumer Protection Authority operates on inspection plans, at least a long time ago, when I was supervising this area, it was so, and indeed, if there is nothing in the control plan, it is very difficult for the Authority to move. So the more resources they have, the more opportunities they have to control, the more effective they can do. So, in this area too, it is probably true that it is not primarily the size of the penalty, but the danger of being caught that it is possible to deter market players from being unfair. So in Hungarian, I would urge you that this is a good direction in which the government has set off with this proposal, but it would really be worth moving forward, and it would also be worth increasing its resources to this authority so that they can do as much work as possible, because many times, with what I started, I would like to end the health of Hungarian families, or to preserve its safety, an effective authority action. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-30-355	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In two speeches, we were encouraged to continue to monitor this area closely, and perhaps to forget that during the previous general debate, it was precisely the third time in this year that this area was here, or as a consequence, in the context of the amendments to regulations, before Parliament. So what you can see is that consumer protection is very, very important to the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. It also shows that it is here for the third time and regulates various areas, so it is not true what was said in the general debate that we could not regulate consumer protection itself in the framework of a bill as we wanted. It had to be done in three steps because different areas had to be touched, precisely because the market and consumer demands so desired. The experience that has come to us in this area has wished for these directions to be tightened up in order to ensure that more attention can be given. This is why, in fact, in three steps during the spring session, we regulated the consumer protection and product safety area by harmonising market surveillance rules for non-food products, and, in view of the epidemic situation, the Government, on its own proposal, adopted by a large majority the Parliament. I would like to point out, in the context of tightening up or more attention, that perhaps Dániel Z. Kárpát has just said that we should pay more attention, because this is precisely the market surveillance regulation that we have under review, we have tightened up and we have expanded the possibility of monitoring. And the current amendment also strengthens consumer rights in the online space for legal harmonisation purposes, and, among other things, creates the possibility of public action against the dual quality of products on a Hungarian initiative. So we are not following things, we are going in front of them, because we were one of the initiators of double quality on the European Union scene, and then legislative harmonisation will take place in national parliaments within the framework of EU legislation. And that's why we're here right now so that this kind of harmonisation can take place, and then, in about a year and a half, in the spring of 2022, it will come into force and apply. In fact, thanks to our authorities, our field of expertise, our attention, the European Union has regulated the European Union, and we are here to discuss this amendment, so that we will complete a final act of this process that we have started here in the Hungarian Parliament at the time of the vote, which, of course, is precisely because I felt from opposition speeches that we do not have disagreements on content issues, and I am asking everyone on the opposition side to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-357	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear House, It follows the XXXIII of 2016 on the state project evaluation relationship and the amendment of certain related laws. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/13480. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-358	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13480 on the status of State Project Evaluation and the amendment of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 7 votes against and no abstentions. [[22.20]] Dear Parliament, The government prioritises the use of EU funds as efficiently as possible, serving Hungarian settlements, businesses and, through them, the Hungarian families as much as possible. This is an essential condition for the rapid, objective, transparent and independent operation of the project evaluation system for assessing EU proposals. This is a well-functioning system, which is demonstrated by the fact that in recent years neither the European institutions nor the Hungarian public have expressed any substantive professional criticism about its operation. As the scheme has been well tested, it is appropriate to extend its application to the next financing period 2021-2027. The bill contains largely technical amendments, including the management of life situations in the relations of project evaluation persons, such as those who work in universities or vocational training centres with foundational reservations. The proposal also increases the applicability of electronic administration. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-359	Thank you. Dear House, I will ask the Secretary of State to comment at this stage of the debate. [[Dr. Szabolcs Ágostházy: As a close!]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-360	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Given the late hour, I wouldn't take too long with your patience. The discussion of the bill was both during the general debate, where we discussed basically the professional issues related to the bill, and it was constructive in all negotiating disciplines. Thank you, on behalf of the rapporteur, for the contributions of all the groups, for giving us the opportunity to clash views on EU development policy. At the same time, the concrete bill, which contains basically technical amendments and extends a success product for the next seven-year EU funding period, has been supported by MEPs in all Commission debates. In view of the fact that no individual representatives have submitted an amendment to it, I am therefore assuming that either our responses were accepted in the debate or were initially agreed with the objectives of the bill. Therefore, I continue to ask this House to support the original bill in the final vote, if all the factions consider it important for the possible total transparency, non-influence and professional decision-making in the allocation of EU funds, taking into account the technical amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-30-361	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your speech. Dear House, The Committee on Selected European Affairs has not set up a rapporteur, so here are the speeches from its Members, if my fellow Members apply. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State... [[Dr. Szabolcs Imre Agostházy says no.]] I mean, there's no reaction. I thanked you for not responding. So, ladies and gentlemen, I note that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on services and support for employment and on the surveillance of employment and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Government referral T/13481. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I will give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee, once again. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-362	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 November 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13481. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. 46th parliamentary decision of the year 2004 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 6 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's bill aims to strengthen the support of employers, workers and job seekers, and to respond more quickly to the needs of the labour market by creating a new regulatory environment at legislative level. The bill supports the creation of new jobs and facilitates the creation of employment for job seekers and their training in employment. The government has placed considerable emphasis on the provision of employment aid over the past decade, with the result that employment subsidies are currently affecting a wide range of sectors. In addition, the proposal puts new rules on the supervision of employment on a new basis for the protection of workers. The proposal sets out, on the one hand, the new name of the employment authority and, on the other hand, the obligation to notify the employer for at least one month in the event of undeclared employment. I think it is important to mention that, thanks to the bill, the system of granting aid will be transformed, turned into a three-tier system and, as a result, it will be possible to establish a rapid, simplified and small administrative procedure for granting aid and decision-making. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us will lead to a more dynamic and simpler support system in the employment area, while creating a more modern and effective control system. In addition to promoting a flexible, rapid procedure, the new employment monitoring regulation aims at whitening the economy by effectively reducing undeclared work. In view of this, please support the bill submitted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-30-363	Thank you. Dear House, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak. [[Sándor Bodó: Yes.]] Yeah. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have expressed their views on the bill that is on the agenda, whether it be a supportive or possibly critical comment. The comments made it clear, even if today's interest does not prove that we all consider this a very important issue, one to which everyone, regardless of party standing, has had any comments, a thought worth considering. I am pleased that my fellow Members did not dispute the timeliness of the bill during their speeches, they all indicated that it was time to touch it, and they also indicated that they could fundamentally agree with the objectives set out in the bill, because our common goal is to keep as many jobs as possible, to create new ones, and to make the Hungarian labour market as effective as possible despite the outbreak caused by the coronal virus. Dear House, We are constantly working, as I have mentioned in the previous ideas, to address labour market and economic challenges in order to ensure that these government measures are as targeted as possible. Our goal is also to save jobs in the pandemic situation, to maintain the existential security of citizens. Thus, among other things, we have launched significant wage subsidies in the sectors most affected by the coronal virus, among the emergency employment measures, and we have made it possible to make use of them. At the same time, the main task of this bill is not to deal with the difficulties arising from emergency situations in a period of time, but to strengthen employment in the long term, in fact with the need for stability. In view of the minor differences in opinion on the bill, allow me to respond to some points beyond what has been said in the general debate. In general, it is necessary to clarify that the law, together with its implementing regulations, will provide greater flexibility in monitoring labour market dynamics. The framework character of the law also means that it is possible to draw up detailed rules and discuss them publicly only after the adoption of the law, during the next period, i.e. in the light of the final text of the norm. [[22.30]] The establishment of additional rules for the implementation of the law will take place with the involvement of the social partners, employers' and employees' side Competitors' and the Permanent Consultation Forum of the Government in the light of the published law. Otherwise, this job will start at least in the first round this week. There will be sufficient time and opportunity for the social partners to participate in the process, as details and the drafting of the government regulation are only just beginning. As I mentioned, the VKF, with special professional participation, formed a working committee to facilitate the development of detailed rules. The Committee will begin its work by consulting the written proposals sent by the parties, and then the professional and political discussions, obviously, have been held so far, and then, as I have said, it will be followed by the incorporation or creation of detailed rules. Dear Parliament, The first half of the bill sets out the main rules for employment subsidies and services. The government has introduced a work-based approach, a work-based society, employment creation is at the heart of its economic policy and has taken a number of measures to stimulate significant labour market activity. The aim of the bill is to increase the effectiveness of these incentives and subsidies. On the basis of the proposal, the provision of grants, such as the effective assistance of job seekers, will be much faster, simpler and more transparent than before. The administrative reduction targeted by the proposal will mean a great deal of relief for both support and for service seekers and for public administrations. On the basis of the bill, employment-enhancing subsidies provided by the public employment body serve to create a new employment relationship or to maintain an existing employment relationship in the labour market. Employment-friendly services will also help those in a more vulnerable position in the labour market. I would like to address the concerns raised in the general debate on support for employment and services now. The public employment body is entitled to provide grants and services; therefore, I stress that it is a public employment body. There are strict rules to this right now, by the way. On the basis of the proposal, the public employment body will facilitate job search, employment and access to the right workforce, as well as keeping the job free of charge. Accordingly, no aid can be granted under the rules in force for employment in the framework of temporary agency work, nor does this aim exist in the future. Employment-enhancing services, as they do at present, will not only mean the mediation of workers. Services include a complex advisory support system whereby a job seeker acquires, develops, assists the job seeker through the public employment body, and the aim is clearly clear: a return to the labour market as efficiently as possible. It can therefore be seen that this bill does not apply to private employment agencies or temporary agency companies, as it focuses on a completely different range of subjects, in particular job seekers and other disadvantaged people from a labour market point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to ensure that the employer, employee or job seeker who receives support and service for employment is actively involved in improving his situation. This is a very important thing, because in many cases the person's activity or passivity is the key to everything. Thus, the employer's obligation to provide the public employment body with continuous information on the labour demand, i.e. the vacancy and the termination of the job due to loading, is more pronounced than previously. I don't think I have to justify it particularly, but this cooperation is, in fact, essential. It is an encouraging novelty in the draft that the official control of the employer receiving employment support will be wider, as the authority's control of the employment conditions will also be extended. During the general debate, we found that not everyone was clear about the new employment authority. This does not result in actual transformation compared to the current organisation. The expansion of tasks, the change of emphasis, the relationship with employment support justify renaming. This is why it is necessary to change the name of the authority in a number of other laws. With regard to the employment supervisory authority, as is currently the case with the labour authority, it is statutory that the organisational framework is governed by a government regulation. The official task remains within the government office, while professional management remains the responsibility of the Minister responsible for employment policy, so he will report the work of the authority to the Parliament. The employment authority can only act by means of the law, and this cannot be a remedy for everything. This also requires an occupational awareness. At the same time, monitoring activities can clearly contribute to strengthening occupational awareness. Efficient use of the available staff and infrastructure opportunities will be used by the labour inspection organisation to carry out investigations across the country in the order of tens of thousands per year. In 2019, the labour authority carried out checks with 15 509 employers, which affected the employment conditions of 63 959 workers. With regard to the last ten years, the labour authority has examined the enforcement of fundamental labour law rules for more than one million workers in total. Official control is effective... which obviously intends to maintain that operation and it is quite clear that we want to represent the interests of workers in the first place. Dear Parliament, The proposal also makes use of a new rule in the context of the employment monitoring exercise, which includes that even after one day's undeclared work, a 30-day legal relationship can be created, including social security benefits, i.e. an automatic notification, and if it has been established that this employment is longer, then obviously this notification can be made for a longer period of time. As inspections typically reveal a few days or weeks of black employment, the number of days reported, as I mentioned, may rise by scale in view of the establishment of a 30-day relationship by the authorities. At the same time, the period of employment of workers and their entitlement to social security will increase. In particular, the labour authority seeks to monitor jobs where workers' rights have been typically violated in the light of previous years' experience. The effectiveness of the selection of the control target group is reflected by the fact that 72.5 percent of the employers surveyed revealed irregularities last year, i.e. unfortunately there are relapses. The employment authority will continue to investigate each complaint in the future, and if the authority is notified and employment, if not notified, may not be notified for several years, let us say, the worker's complaint may be investigated within a short period of time. The problem of undeclared employment is obviously not a problem for us in Europe as a whole, but one of the tools for reducing this phenomenon is the labour authority, which is working effectively in Hungary, as I have already said. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that, on the basis of what has been said, the Government's position is considered eligible. I ask you to help us with our work by adopting the bill, to help employers, to help workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-365	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Enterprise Development has not set up a rapporteur, so there will now be speeches from its representatives if anyone comes forward. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an applicant, so the debate is closed, so, obviously, Mr Secretary of State, I think you do not want to react, because there have been no comments in the debate. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[22.40]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain transport laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. Government referral T/13482. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. So I give the floor to Adam Hey, David, the speaker of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-366	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 November 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13482 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 30 votes in favour, no votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to introduce the necessary legislative changes to the legislation in force in the field of rail, shipping, air transport, road transport and passenger transport. With the adoption of the bill, road control processes will become more effective, and a number of procedures that are essential to the rail system will be considered in national competence, and the provisions of the proposal will whiten the economy and improve the current conditions of competition. In Act I of 1988 on road transport, Kkt., an authorisation provision is added, which is intended to allow special rules to be laid down for the delivery of the surcharge notice in the case of the use fee and the non-payment of the e-vignette. by means of a ministerial decree issued under its mandate in order to ensure the effective fulfilment of the payment obligation. The KCt. regulate the scope of the provisions which confirm that they may be required to pay a fine. This list is added to the scope of the road traffic control and the official measures taken in the course of it. The scope of the determining authorities will also be defined in relation to the new point and a fine may be imposed. The KCt. specify the possibilities for exemption from payment of an administrative fine. The amendment proposes a new excuse for an administrative procedure based on objective liability, according to which the operator is exempted from the penalty imposed for exceeding the total weight if it can present a proper mass statement of the total weight in the event that the exhibitor of the mass can be identified. With this proposal, the reasons for the rescue will be complete for the keepers. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport Law hereinafter referred to as "Vtv." In order to ensure the safe operation of rail transport, it will introduce a system integrity test in the event of the establishment, modification or modernisation of fixed rail subsystems. The main point is that the applicant shall determine, at the first stage of the installation process, in his application for a construction permit, the technical conditions by which it will be ensured and shall demonstrate to the rail transport authority that the fitting of the railway subsystem or subsystems involved in construction, conversion or upgrading will meet the required level of system integrity. The purpose of the proposal is also to ensure that the rail system is operated as a single system for the national authorities in the case of the Railway Transport Act and to facilitate the implementation of government aid in connection with the implementation of rail-electricity and single wagon transport by rail. In view of the arguments put forward above, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-30-367	Thank you. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] He won't say anything. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. So now it is up to the Members to speak, as my fellow Members have indicated. [[There's no signal.]] I do not see a petitioner, so, honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to comment as a closing point? [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-30-368	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to introduce the necessary legislative amendments to the legislation in force in the field of rail, shipping, air transport, road transport and passenger transport. By amending sectoral legislation, we achieve various public policy objectives and also fulfil our legal harmonisation obligations. Dear House, According to the draft, in order to promote enforcement in road transport and to create more efficient road inspections, we have included the facts of the conduct of road traffic control and of the official measures taken in the course of that procedure in cases which could be fined. The operator shall be granted a new excuse from the penalty imposed for exceeding the total weight if there is a proper mass evidence of the total weight and its exhibitor can be identified. With regard to road transport registers, we provide the tax authority with access to the data necessary to carry out vehicle taxation tasks. We implement an obligation to harmonise legislation in water transport in order to ensure proper consistency with EU legislation. In rail transport, the institution of the system integrity test is introduced to ensure that the integration of the rail subsystem or subsystems involved in construction, conversion or upgrading to the rail system is achieved at the required level of system integrity. In the light of the specificities of the rail-electric system, commonly known as the tram-train system, its classification has been standardised and the requirements for the system have been clarified in order to ensure the proper enforceability of the official authorisation procedures. Due to the more effective implementation of the rail individual car support system prepared to increase rail competitiveness, we have laid down exception rules in order to ensure the proper applicability of the tendering system. As regards passenger transport services, we have made it possible for the transport undertaking providing the service to be entitled to the social security fare premium which may be used to compensate for public passenger transport travel benefits in the case of resale by another transport service provider on its own behalf. Last but not least, we have put in place measures to better control the activities of companies operating in the passenger and passenger transport services markets and to whiten the market. Dear Parliament, During the general debate, the feedback of all speakers and groups was positive and supportive, which shows that the benefits of the social and economic impacts that can be achieved by amendments are out of the question. Thank you for your support during the general debate. The ideas expressed, as well as the absence of an individual amendment to the bill, indicate that a well-designed and hopefully broad consensus-supported proposal is being decided. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Hey, David, Adam's applauding.]]
u2020-11-30-369	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposal to repeal Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the International Road Transport of Dangerous Goods. Government referral T/13645. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if you'd like to speak now. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] No. In this case, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. It is therefore up to Members to speak, if my fellow Members are to tell me this now. [[No signal coming through.]] I do not see such a sign, Honourable Parliament, so the debate is closed. I'm just asking Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the closing.
u2020-11-30-370	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, By adopting the bill repealing Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the international carriage of dangerous goods by road, that Decree-Law expires on 1 January 2021. At the same time, the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, the Protocol amending the ADR and the Government Regulation on the publication in a uniform structure of the Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road will enter into force on 30 September 1957. [[22.50]] At the same time, the aim is to ensure that the agreement is published in an appropriate level of legislation and that the agreement is amended in the domestic legal order at the same time as the date of international entry into force. Dear House, In the amendment, the word "European' was deleted from the title of the agreement. In this case, however, this change is of paramount importance. During the work in the UN, delegates from the international community, including experts representing Hungary, made their decision to broaden the framework for cooperation and presented the proposed amendment to national governments. This amendment also allows the accession of States not members of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe to the Agreement, which could enhance the security of international transport in the longer term, and is also fully in line with the UN's 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. We hope that, with the accession of new Member States, the agreement will eventually become a global regulation, which is in the common interest of all States involved in the transport of dangerous substances and goods by road. In order to incorporate this technically important amendment into the domestic legal order, it is necessary to support the Parliament. Dear Parliament, International cooperation is of paramount importance in this specific field of road transport. During the road transport of dangerous substances and dangerous goods, all cooperating countries should take into account the specific characteristics of these consignments in order to minimise the risks of explosions and damage to health and damage to the environment. The amendment of the international agreement provides a broader framework for international cooperation by allowing non-European countries to join the long-standing agreement. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the positive feedback and support received from all speakers, groups, on the bill during the general debate, which shows that it is clear to all of us that this change is necessary and forward-looking. The fact that no individual amendments were tabled to the bill or the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which conducted the detailed discussion of the bill as a designated committee, supported the bill unanimously at its meeting on 24 November 2020 indicates that this change is for the benefit of Hungary, is necessary and will facilitate our future development. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-30-371	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, so now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Erik Fülöp, an independent representative, applied for a post-meeting speech:. When are you planning to reduce the VAT on products and services related to animal recovery? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2020-11-30-372	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, On several occasions, I have drawn the attention of the public and Parliament that the recession and economic uncertainty caused by the Crown Virus pandemic has led to a very difficult situation in the lives of civil society organisations and shelters in the field of animal protection. It is important to stress that voluntary work to assist shelters and these civil society organisations in their daily work has become almost impossible due to the health risks associated with the spread of the coronal virus. However, it is also important to draw attention to the fact that, in this extremely difficult economic situation, these animal protection organisations and shelters have tried to carry out their activities mainly through generous offerings, generous donations from all kinds of financial and material benefits to generous donors. Unfortunately, these donations have been decreasing in recent times, and in many cases they have completely ceased and have become obsolete. This has also led to a very, very critical situation in the lives of these organisations, since, as I have consulted many civil society organisations and have consulted several responsible keepers, the most important daily costs are the veterinary costs associated with the care of the various patients, injured or rescued animals, as well as expenditure on hospital treatment of these animals, as well as expenditure on tools and medicines to help them heal. As they are not in such an economic situation, they do not receive such direct support either in a tender or directly from the Parliament or from the government, so they are now in a critical situation. I think that I and, of course, all my fellow Members understand that, in this pandemic situation, saving people's lives is, of course, the most important thing in the exceptional situation caused by the coronal virus, but just as the government and Parliament have already played a role and intervened in a number of areas, so I, as an animal-friendly and animal-loving person, cannot go without saying a word about not calling attention to this. During my consultation with these civil society organisations and with these very responsible, everyday animal-loving families, I came to the conclusion that I initiated my written question with Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, to plan and when the government plans to help these civil society organisations, by means of a reduction in the VAT expenditure for animal recovery. These NGOs, as well as these responsible keepers, have said that it would be a huge help to reduce VAT on veterinary costs, VAT on hospital treatments, the costs involved, and VAT on medicines that help animals to a significant extent to 5%, and, if possible, to fully release it in some cases. I think this would be a very good initiative for all of us. We see that there has recently been a normal dialogue between Parliament and the government towards civil society organisations on the one hand and other political parties on the other. We all think this is saving, but of course we have an extremely long journey ahead of us. I hope that, as this good initiative has started, that something may have started in the field of animal protection, so this suggestion can be heard, because this is not only my suggestion, but the proposal of hundreds of NGOs, and the proposal of millions of people who love animals. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-11-30-373	Thank you, Congressman. Zoltán Varga, from DK, also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. While the pockets of Orbán's yard gas plant are stuffed with hundreds of billions of state, Hungarian businesses are being destroyed by the title of the government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-11-30-374	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At this late hour, we have to talk about a very embarrassing subject, because, while the Prime Minister seems to be fighting the European Union to the brink of nails, in fact, against common sense because of the rule of law, only in order to keep on stealing, the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, the insufficient crisis management, and the government's negligence are slowly putting them on the brink. Despite all government propaganda and lies, the workers today feel that they have been abandoned by the Orbán course on their own skin and on their wallets. In Europe, we know that perhaps one of the shortest duration and lowest amount of job search support, while hundreds of thousands of workers are in a catastrophic situation, losing their jobs and incomes, they do not get this pathetic little support in many cases in time. The country, complete industries, tourism, catering, organisation of events, organisation of sports, could be closed as a result of the government's failure and insufficient disease management, and the economic operators involved, the injured players in the current situation could be listed by day; the soil pulled out from under its feet and the source of income reduced to almost zero would be a fatal injury to the undertakings concerned in itself. Of course, it goes without saying that this immediately seals the fate of employees working in the companies concerned. [[23.00]] However, for the benefit of businesses that are already on the verge of income, without any vision of the future, there is yet another threat to the benefit of businesses that, perhaps because of their faith in the future, the potential of the company, their incomes that seem certain until the crisis blows up, they have launched improvements for which tendering resources have been used to a large extent, of course, from the EU, and for them the current situation is an increased burden. One of the basic conditions of the tenders, whether already closed projects or ongoing developments in the maintenance period, is that almost a hundred percent of them require that the number of employees should not only be retained for the entire duration of the tender, but also that the number of employees should be increased to the extent determined during the development of the tender. All this, of course, by not only keeping employees' wages at a level, but probably even increasing them by the end of the project. Of course, this was a calculated, planned and accepted condition for the applicant companies, since the business plans were a sure basis for them to date. However, on the one hand, the pandemic, on the other hand, the socio-economic crisis resulting from it, and obviously the government's testosity, have rewritten all of this. The government's impotent crisis management has also sealed these proposals, the range of applicant development companies. Businesses who have won a few million or more can't, because of the decision of the panic government, open or, if they do, produce only a fraction of their income so far, while the clock is still ticking longer than their applications. Companies awarded applications have a monthly reporting obligation, where, in addition to the implementation of the project, wages are also required to be declared to them in addition to the number of employees. But in this case, because instead of preparing for the second wave of the epidemic, the panic government spent the summer stealing, adriading, yachting, fighting with a created enemy and fighting with the EU, and therefore the virus was unleashed, causing half the country and, as I have just said, a series of industries to close down to curb the rampage of the epidemic, most of the candidate companies are drifting towards an unsolvable disaster. They don't take it because of the government, but they should keep the number of employees in the application and the wages until they're nailed, because otherwise they're threatening the existence of the application if they don't do all this. And we know very well what that means: we have to pay them back with interest. Also in this case, the responsibility of Orbán and his government is indisputable. We demand an immediate solution and action before the impotence of the panic government is an irreversible tragedy for the businesses concerned and their employees. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-30-375	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to the independent Member of Gergely Farkas for the floor after the agenda:. Apart from their own faults, do the smaller housekeepers not receive the compensation they are entitled to? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-30-376	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is no exaggeration that I am bringing complaints from thousands of housekeepers to this House, now orally, in the framework of a speech, but today I have also turned to the Government in writing, in the form of a written question, because it is such an urgent and important issue. It happened that on 10 November a government decree was issued, we all know on the basis of which, the hosts cannot receive tourists for economic, business or educational purposes only. Previous announcements, such as those made by Prime Minister, and the government decree on this, say that 80 percent of the revenue losses in accommodation places are reimbursed by the state as a nice-sounding promise. Unfortunately, however, the reality was different, the devil lies in the details, as they say. The only reason why it happened is that the total amount of compensation after booking is 80 per cent for the accommodation providers who have announced their bookings on the National Tourism Data Service Centre. All this is problematic because some, especially smaller places, did not use this, but a so-called reduced or simplified surface for pre-booking. All this has been done by ensuring that this option is fully available to them. However, their prior bookings for November are no longer included in the circle after which the State pays compensation, although this means the same booking as any other owner's booking or booking of a large chain of hotels, only on another platform, I say, once again, in a completely regular manner, according to the possibilities available to them. Who is affected by this disadvantage? As I mentioned, mainly smaller accommodation places. So not the large hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros and other large hotel chains, but the small rural tourism or some of the accommodations, like a forest cabin, and a house with a small capacity, I say once again, the families dealing with rural tourism, are embarrassed by this unfair provision. It is no exaggeration that there are thousands, if you may say, tens of thousands of such hosts in Hungary, who, in spite of their reservations in November, will receive nothing as compensation according to the government decree now in force. It is quite clear that these hosts are in such a situation without their own fault, and they are now being punished, which means, in particular, that they will fall from hundreds of thousands, but it is not uncommon that they will not receive compensation worth millions. One of the stakeholders said: I agreed with the NTAK customer service provider, this is the National Tourism Data Service Centre, and their position on the problem is that the reduced method, where they announced their bookings, which was created for small tourism companies and individuals with tax numbers, is optional. In other words, the responsibility lies with the users, while it was not expected that they would not have to report their bookings on this interface. The situation is also serious, not surprisingly, because this year was very bad for tourism because of the virus situation, with the exception of a few months of summer, the number of tourists and bookers has fallen. So it is no wonder how bad the situation of these families or smaller accommodations is. And if they don't get this compensation, it's gonna make them even worse. In addition, this is discrimination, because, I say once again, the larger ones will receive it, until smaller housing sites have access to the rightful compensation for them. To address this, stakeholders have already taken the following steps: they have launched a petition to see if they can achieve anything. Vilmos Horváth, vice-president of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry responsible for tourism, also contacted the Hungarian Tourism Agency to indicate discriminatory regulations and ask for the extension of support to these smaller accommodation places. At the same time, they are also trying to make changes by using the media's publicity. And I mentioned that I myself asked the competent ministry a written question in favour of my speech today. In the light of all this, I hope that the government will acknowledge its error as soon as possible and correct this whole situation, which would unfairly rule out small housing tax compensation, and ultimately, I trust that they will also receive the rightful compensation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-30-377	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the representative of Jobbik, to speak after the agenda, with the title 'Checks' instead of tests. Here you go, Congressman. [[23.10]]
u2020-11-30-378	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We fully agree that the epidemiological rules must be complied with. We also agree that the epidemiological rules must be enforced. But even though we are used to, let's say, to unfair and exaggerating penalties in Jobbik, let's say, a billion-dollar SAO penalty or more than four million potato fines, we will not accept inhuman and truly exaggerating sanctions. In the small town of South Somogy, Nagyatad, a bakery was closed the other day, because at 10:10 a 63-year-old person bought it there and served it. The whole circumstance itself is very suspicious, and it has rightly caused an uproar in the citizens of Nagyatád, who, by the way, initiated a signature collection in order to somehow undo this. No wonder this uproar, for as thick as the pencil holds on the punishments, they are so narrow in terms of subsidies from the pro-government side. Let's see what's going on. In the last month, 3,000 of our countrymen have died from a coronal virus outbreak. Now we can count on 150 dead people a day, so every ten minutes a Hungarian citizen dies. There are 6 to 7,000 positive tests per day, and the positivity rate is extremely high, which means that this epidemic has actually become uncontrollable. What did the government do and how was it prepared for this entire disaster? We have often said, we have heard, yes, that the whole summer has actually been spent yachting, helicoptering and filling buddies, as well as stretching Lake Balaton, and it could really be classified until sundown. Even though we asked for it, even though we suggested it, we demanded that they hear Jobbik's proposals, including the need for mass testing and the need to take contact research much more seriously, in the gloomy shadow of the second wave over the country, the government did not want to hear it. What are they thinking now? For example, they have the sense to rewrite the electoral law and try to cement their own power to continue wallowing in the cesspool of corruption. Let's see what you've done, say Minister Kásler at your committee hearing last week. When I asked him the question of how he personally, as a minister, was related to the fact that there were thousands of sporting events in Hungary, he did not answer or cast the answer. His answer and the government's response to all this is that the government does everything right, the people are to blame, the people are to blame, the people are to blame, and their indiscipline is to cause the problems. Well, please, it's not like that. The fact is that the government should put itself there, and, among other things, let's say, give the employees of the social sphere a one-off payment of HUF 500,000, which we seem to demand in vain, because the real enemy in Hungary is not the little man, but the virus itself, and the livelihood emergency, disaster that seems to unfold. What does the government do in this situation? For example, by closing this small bakery in Nagyatád, risking the livelihood of families, in a situation where they can continue to strike, the enforcers can reap 33 percent, 50 percent ban, in a situation where there is no 100 percent sickness benefit, and indeed 60 percent sickness benefit, it is not possible to maintain a family; in a situation where 100,000 people are unemployed in Hungary as a result of the epidemic. The fact is that the government is very tight, because the job search support is three months away, instead of taking Jobbik's advice here, and raising it for at least nine months, because this is nonsense. So, they're generous in terms of punishment, but I'm very stingy in terms of subsidies from the government. We see that, let's say, the paedophile Kaleta was punished for the pictures of thousands of paedophiles for 500,000 forints, but she doesn't have to sit down for anything, however, or in contrast to the Grandpa bakery for two months, I repeat, she will be closed. The inhabitants of the small town of South Somogy were right to start this petition, and I believe that their message to the government is clear: they took the pre-order for the orange bookie by 2022. Listen to the complaints of the people of Nagyatád, the complaints of the people of South Somogy, and not the little man as an enemy, as an opponent on the government side, but indeed the virus and the livelihood emergency. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-11-30-379	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest.
