u2020-04-21-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the Dialogue Group on Current Affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There is not a day when the government will not bang its breasts on how it will succeed in the crisis, how it will try to bring in protective equipment for tons, which will not reach the people, and how it will try to save the economy with the largest economic rescue package in so-called Hungary's history. The fact is that while the government is banging its breasts day by day, the stakeholders, the professional and representative organisations representing the stakeholders, do not consider these steps sufficient either. As much as the government claims to be preparing for the biggest economic recovery programme in Hungary's history, the truth is that the government should not, let us say, compete with the Győr programme, but should compensate for the effects of the epidemic as much as possible. They do so in Europe, they announce rescue packages from government to government and introduce new measures. Compared to this, the Hungarian government is able to submit the smallest economic rescue package in Europe to the Parliament, or at least to talk about it, because in many respects it is still being talked about, which will not be enough to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis, let alone to resolve it. The idea is wrong in the first place that when the crisis is over, they will create more or at least as many new jobs as the crisis has ended, because that period must somehow survive, survive in a health sense and survive in a social sense. In Hungary, unlike most European countries, the majority of the rich European countries do not have one, two, three, four, five or six months' reserves. In most cases, these reserves run out in the first month, and from then on there will be a lack of prospects. In this situation, first of all, serious steps should be taken, much more serious than at present, to preserve existing jobs and replace lost income. The transfer of income that the government has announced so far is quite simply inadequate and would require much more serious State aid. It is no accident that the budgetary impact of these measures is almost zero, as you claim, because the number of deficits you have published so far results in the fact that the economy will shrink according to all predictions, even if expenditure is not increased. Expenditure should indeed be increased in the public sector, in the budgetary sphere, otherwise this assistance will not be sufficient. The loss of income, at least 80% of the employees' income lost in the companies in distress should be taken over, and you are trying to create a fraction of that. Second, those who have just lost their jobs, and there is still a chance that they can find a job, two things should be done urgently. One: the job search period you have cut, which has been cut from nine months to three months, needs to be re-raised to nine months. Second: unemployment benefits must be set at least 100,000 forints, as they will not be able to make a living with less money. And the third, that those who have already fallen out of both first categories and are in trouble as a result of the crisis, must also introduce the basic income for crisis management to a rate of at least HUF 100,000, in order for the Hungarian families to survive in a social sense, who knows how many difficult months ahead of us. There is little tax relief for this because there is no tax relief for those who do not already have an income. There is little credit for this, since businesses that close their doors are not able to make sufficient use of these credit facilities now without income. Much more effort would be needed. Please listen to the interest organisations, listen to the conservative economists. The profession, the people, the representations clearly say that this is not enough. There's a sign that you've already recognized that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But we don't see anything concrete yet. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, We agree with Mr President that we are in a very difficult situation and, in the context of the protection against the coronal virus, we must not only save lives and deal with human health, but also focus on mitigating the economic consequences of the epidemic. We did, and I'll tell you later how, but if I may, I'd like to begin with a preliminary remark. We have learned from you the professional skills related to crisis management between 2002 and 2010. Then the result was that the Hungarian economy collapsed, and the Hungarian economy was on the verge of bankruptcy, hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs, and all you did was rush off to the IMF, take out loans, and in return they squeezed and took the income from families, civil servants, pensioners. We know this crisis management recipe, which was used in the 1990s in the context of the Bokros package. I think that the Hungarian people are united in saying no to this type of crisis management, especially when, after 2010, when the economic situation has been stabilised after your governance, it has been proven that another type of crisis management approach is operational and that the crisis management approach is the one that creates jobs, which creates fiscal balance and which brings economic growth, not your approach. We want to address the economic impact of the crisis in a similar way now. We're thinking about a new New Deal, not austerity. Congressman may not be paying due attention to the related Hungarian and international analyses, but the Hungarian economic rescue package is one of the most important in the European Union countries. As we have talked about this, we plan to move 18-20 percent of GDP, plan to move it and use it to mitigate the economic impact of coronal virus control. This is a very serious amount, Hungary's most serious crisis management package. The immediate measures taken immediately after the emergency was ordered have already totaled HUF 3600-3700 billion in freight relief for families, individuals and businesses, and the measures notified since then continue to serve this purpose. In this way, we would like to rebuild the 13th month pension, so we would like to make further tax cuts, so we would like to specifically support businesses specifically targeted with EU rules, with changes in de minimis rules, using their help. [[9.10]] And as a result, as a result of this New Deal, we believe that we will be able to create as many jobs as the crisis will destroy. We think that's the most important goal we can now set ourselves. You mentioned the so-called Kurzarbeite, the wage support system, in a dismal tone; you mentioned international examples. I propose, as Minister Szijjártó also suggested yesterday, that Members read not only the first sentence of the international news and international plans, but also go into the details and see how the detailed rules of the wage support programmes in other countries are developed and to this end the Hungarian approach is assessed. The wage support program you said nothing about means HUF 220 billion. Your only suggestion is basic income, which is an extreme left-wing proposal made on a political planning table. Everywhere it was tested in other countries, it turned out that it didn't work and it was unfair, because it didn't meet the same goal as you said it would be to help those most affected by the crisis. This is what we are doing, and we would be very happy if they could support the government's crisis management measures in this direction, just as they have not done on any occasion. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-5	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The last few days have proved perfectly that Fidesz feels that the time for reckoning has come. In a nasty and inconvenient way, they intend to use the emergency to deal with everything and everyone who stands in your way. Because you clearly stand in the way of successful local governments based on your decisions, you stand in the way of opposition parties, and the saddest part is that sick people are included in this category. It is worth looking at why the Hungarian government is in the way of the Hungarian local government, and I think we know the answer: Hungarian municipalities can prove that it is possible to provide meaningful help to the people you have forgotten about in such difficult times. A good example of this is given in Section VIII. district, the IX. district or district I assistance, which can be obtained specifically by economic victims of the crisis in these districts while the government has done nothing to help these people. The contrast on this issue is incredibly sharp, and it is also clear that local governments, with their own scarce resources, are taking a very strong part in the defense. You'll be thanking me for putting a stick in the spokes whenever you can. This is confirmed by the fact that the otherwise fidesz-led XII. The defence equipment ordered by the district council, which they would otherwise have used for defence, is seized. 'Cause why does the government get special protection equipment? And what I don't understand is why you need this, because we hear every day that tons of aircraft and protective equipment arrive. It's amazing to see this showdown. The fact that you are trying to make opposition parties impossible is not new, but I think that opposition parties can draw attention to and do so effectively enough to make you forget who you are: the larger part of society. In that sense, I understand why you want to make local governments impossible. But of all of them, I think it's the most painful and the most undecided of the way patients are treated. I do not stress the 60 percent release: no reasonable logic and the known figures do not justify it. It's amazing to see with one exception: if you hide the real numbers, as long as you are aware of facts that will not be brought to light. That might be a reason for such a drastic move. But I think that the international examples, as Mr Secretary of State has said in his previous reply, clearly show that it is not necessary to liberate nearly 40,000 hospital seats. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that there are more than 44,000 dormitory seats in Hungary. It is your job and your responsibility to set up these facilities for patient care, and in this case, we should not send home sick people in rehabilitation. 'Cause what kind of situation are these sick people gonna be in? Who's gonna take good care of them? Could a family be able to see with understanding, with an expert eye, when intervention is needed? Who will give the infusion to these sick people, if appropriate? Who's gonna change the catheter? Will they be able to perform the physical exercise at home that is necessary again for rehabilitation? We clearly know the answer: the infrastructure and expertise needed for rehabilitation are in hospitals. This is what a significant part of Hungarian society has been deprived of, and I would like to point out that this is a crime against humanity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it will be very difficult for you to look into the eyes of future generations after this step has been taken. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Allow me one more sentence, Mr President, because I would like to say that we know from Viktor Orbán that we must not look at what they are saying, but what they are doing and what they are doing is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Government of Hungary also makes one of the fastest decisions in comparison between European governments, both in terms of health protection and in terms of saving people's jobs, and in order to reduce the social crisis as much as possible. We cannot count on this opposition, because you did not support in this Parliament when we wanted these decisions to be adopted more quickly in the event of an emergency, you wasted your time, and then you did not give the government the authority to deal with the coronal virus threat itself. They wanted these decisions not in a few hours, but in a few weeks, and until then, both in health care and in the economy and in the social field, there will be an insurmountable impact on your day-to-day party policy perspective. They couldn't cross political borders even during the coronal virus epidemic. However, Fidesz-KDNP crossed all political boundaries after 2010 when it said that, regardless of political affiliation, every Hungarian government would pay all its debts instead of municipalities. He did not look at the political colour of the municipality, but said that there was a wrong government policy in front of him that had indebted the municipalities because he had given them a task and did not give them a source, and that was subsequently paid by the Fidesz-KDNP government to all left-wing, right-wing or independent municipalities. Do not say, honourable Member, that this government would not have helped the municipalities by all means, and then took over the largest costs, hospitals and schools from the municipalities. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It also created the coverage and the possibility of raising wages, among other things. During the crisis, we presented a bill that would have taken over these tasks from the municipalities in relation to the management of the virus, and obviously also the responsibility for this, which you protested against within 24 hours. What you have just said here, honourable Member, is that it is a great burden for the municipalities, there was a proposal that would have helped the municipalities to do so, and you have protested loudly. Then he protested against the bill, which would have taken this task off the municipality, and now he is protesting how big the task is in the municipalities. Honourable Member, you are changing your position weekly and the entire Hungarian opposition, and with the same loudness during the viral threat, the same and the same opposite is said here. [[9.20]] Honourable Congressman, The Metropolitan Municipality receives HUF 6 billion in nursing care every year, and all that should have been done is to keep a doctor in the Pesti Road nursing home. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Was!]] Not legally, but physically, there should be a doctor who will care for patients. And now they're waving contracts, and Gergely Christmas is so prepared to publish letters that she has signed, only the name of the chief notary is on her header, honourable Member, because they don't even pay attention to the mayor writing letters on his own letter, not on the master's note. You're so unprepared, you're not paying that much attention, and you're putting people's health at risk in nursing homes and elsewhere. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The mortality rate in Hungary is 10%! What are you talking about? The president's ringing the bell.]] Hospital capacity, honourable Member. You've seen it, I've seen it, we've all seen the pictures, videos that were taken in Italy, Spain, and which showed how they sit, coronal patients wait in the corridors for hours or even half days or days. We all want to avoid that, don't we, Congressman? You, too, would like to avoid sitting in the hallway and waiting for patients with a coronary virus, honourable Member. We'd like to avoid it, too. So we asked leading doctors, leading mathematicians, how many hospital beds need to be released in order to avoid these scenes, and this is being continuously scheduled by the government. It is untrue, Congressman, what both you and the Balliberal press say is that people who need care and treatment can now be dismissed from hospitals. No. Those who are in need of care and treatment have been repeatedly told, several communications have been published, we have made clear in the letters, of course they must continue to be treated in the hospital, they must not be dismissed from the hospital. If such a case happens at any time, please contact the hospital director. [[Antal Csárdi: Until he's fired!]] You should contact the patient's representative, see the officer's office, the People's Health Center, because if something like this happened, it's a mistake, and it needs to be corrected. Everyone in need of hospital care should be treated at the hospital. But, honourable Member, you do realize that you wouldn't be happy if you didn't give me that chance, and we trust that we can avoid it, but we have a strong chance, coronal virus patients would appear in hospitals, and coronal virus and other patients would be mixed up there. Everyone can see from international experience that it is obviously better at this time that those who do not need direct hospitalisation are at home, but those who need direct hospital care must, of course, stay in hospitals and continue to be provided there. Honourable Congressman, We see how you are dealing with the crisis: only and only in a narrow-minded political area; and the government is trying to do everything in its power, with huge budget transfers, to ensure that the cost of defence is constantly available without any restrictions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, A pre-meeting speech was submitted by Ms Ágnes Vadai, Democratic Coalition:. The impact of the coronal virus epidemic on Hungarian society. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-21-9	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, One thing you can't go by without saying is that you send people home and sentence them to death who need hospital care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true! Dr. Pál Völner: Shame on you! You're lying!]] Do you think about the pain and bitterness that they cause to the multitude of Hungarians, just because Orbán invented some orbital bullshit, and his faithful servant, Kasler, who heals with the Ten Commandments, undeservingly executes it to a doctor? Although there are not so many people in Orbán to 133 now who have mistakenly made an announcement, the citizens have long since made the word "the thief." I said "heartless." And you are characterised by the same heartlessness and insensitiveness when it comes to helping Hungarians. You have been at war with non-existent enemies for the past ten years, and in recent weeks it has turned out that the first real problem that comes before you cannot be dealt with is a real problem. Two weeks ago, you put the most useless rescue package in Europe on the table, and yesterday's amendment did not help. Let's see who's gotten what in the last two weeks, and only in the last two weeks. The renovation of the Hungarian Corvin Chain Board's villa between 2020 and 2022 is HUF 6.5 billion, whereas the Hungarian pensioners have zero forints. Support to Szekler farmers is HUF 18.7 billion, whereas Hungarians who have lost their jobs at home have zero forints. Tao for visual team sports up to HUF 22.5 billion, whereas wage increases are zero forints for health and social workers. But this isn't over. We know that when you protect something, it's either stolen or destroyed. It hasn't changed that way. You came up with the world's first job-saving package, a job-protection package, which does not protect jobs, but eliminate them. For example, because of your package, Spar announced that it would fire almost a thousand people who were hired during the crisis. Well, it's a unique achievement in the world, fidesz unortodoxia! László Parragh, the economic advisor of the commanding general, summarized your crisis management well when he literally said that so many people were ruined that we couldn't do anything about it. Well, you really have managed to crown your rampage. I'm just afraid this isn't over. However, we also heard that they wanted to change the package a little because the multinationals were dissatisfied. So if a multinational doesn't like something, the general will bow as a footman. But what about the waiter who got fired, and he doesn't know when he can get back to work? Doesn't she make any difference? What about the shopkeeper or the caterer who can't open it, he doesn't have a penny to pay, but the rent and utility bills have to be paid? Or what about the mother who's taken all her paid leave, and now she's at home on unpaid leave with her child, and she doesn't know what they're gonna make a living on? Don't you have to change it because of them? Dear House, We've already made suggestions. For example, start a substantial wage supplement for all companies. Pay 80% of the former wage of those who have been laid off. Give immediate benefits to the pensioners. Advertise a regime ward. Or introduce the extraordinary freedom of the virus to parents staying home with their young children. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to know what the plan was, what they were thinking. That the 300,000 Hungarians who have become unemployed are going to go to football, move out to Szeklerland, or are they going to renovate a fork? 'Cause apparently there's money for that, but there's no money for the problems I've been talking about. And did the commanding general make that up on his own, Chief of Staff, or did you help him? And what else needs to happen before football is the most important thing for you? What else does it take for the current Prime Minister of Hungary to love Hungarians on the border beyond the family and Lőrinc Mészáros? I'm begging you! You have the power that no one in Europe has! Here in Parliament, they have two-thirds majority. Orbán has unlimited power. Everything's in their hands, everything. You lose company, land, money, municipal authority. What other means do we need to help the Hungarians? But maybe it's not the device, it's the ability or the will. If you have the ability to study DK's 20-point plan [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you will, then I suggest to you [[The president's ringing again.]] To be led by the commanding general to find someone else to warm up instead of Parliament's building... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: That was weak!]]
u2020-04-21-10	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman! I didn't want to interrupt, but the point of what you have to say is that I think that the style in Parliament, even if it has been difficult in the past, has exceeded. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Which one, Mr. President? Remind me.]] I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-21-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Who will participate in the Parliament's work, honourable Member, and then the electorate will decide. I would add that you are in opposition for a reason, this is not the first year. As regards the results of the fight against the epidemic, this was affected in the first part of his speech. What I would like to say is that Hungary is one of the first to act, and this has a positive result, because we have managed to flatten the epidemic curve, and not only we say that, but also the representative of the World Health Organisation. The goal is that by the time we enter the stage of mass sickness, there should be enough equipment and equipment everywhere to ensure that all patients with coronal viruses receive the best possible care. There is a rather unfair debate about the number of deaths. Yesterday, one of your fellow Members claimed but the correct term is that you lied on the part of the PM that we are the worst in the world. If I compare the number of people infected to the number of people who died, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Italy, Sweden and France are worse than us, the Netherlands, but it gives an even more accurate picture of the number of deaths per million inhabitants: 51 in Austria, 151 in Sweden and 20 in Sweden. So when you say otherwise, you're lying, period. [[9.30]] As regards the debate on bed numbers, as we said yesterday, the aim of the measures is to avoid what happened in Italy, to avoid the situation of doctors having to decide who is being treated and who is not. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that decisions on the use of beds are always made by doctors, medical consultations, and an important principle is that decisions cannot lead to deterioration. We'll listen to your criticisms, but it'll still be a fact. [[To Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] You can't hide in your phone that you, when it comes to bed numbers, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm listening!]] They've charged 16,000 beds. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And you're $36,000...]] No matter how much he shouts, no matter how much he shouts, honourable Member, 16,000 beds have been charged. So when you talk about bed numbers, please add this. And if you refer to the workers, they've put 6,000 medical workers on the street, left a $130 billion debt in hospitals. And if you look at the ambulances that... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't talk about what happened ten years ago.]] In vain, honourable Member, when you look at the number of ambulances that are crucial in this situation, you are running into your phone in vain, but you have not acquired one ambulance. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I'm not running.]] So if you set a professional standard, you'd be kind enough to do that. As far as social impacts are concerned, I agree that the economic consequences are equally important. You're pissing off this program, but let's see what we're talking about. We suspended the loans before 18 March. So you don't support him? Consumer loans will have a cap. Employers do not have to pay employers' contributions in sectors with serious financial problems. You don't seem to support it. As of July, the employer's tax will be reduced. More than 81,000 small businesses don't have to pay a cadaver tax. We've suspended eviction. Is that what you don't support? Employees receive wage support. Now you can claim that this is not enough, but don't refer to it as hundreds of thousands of people on the street when you were ruling. Priority support will be given to training, priority support will be given to strategic sectors such as tourism, 600 billion and 2000 billion reduced credit lines for businesses, while rebuilding the 13th month pension that you have not given but have taken away. Now we know that you have all sorts of suggestions, I can hear them and see them. By the way, I even read their 20 points. One thing connects these proposals: instead of a work-based society, they would result in a welfare-based society, a situation where it is not primarily worth living from work, but from public benefits. It also shows that you want to go back to a time when unemployment was 12 percent with all its consequences, stagnant wages, family subsidies and rising public debt. So, you've already cooked this recipe once. Now, that was the recipe for heartlessness. The country has tasted it, and I can say on behalf of many of us that we do not want it again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: on current issues. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now heard that it is the aid-based society that we are preparing for and what we are proposing. It's just not like that. I understand that this is political communication and that we have to say it, and that they will continue to say it, but at least for once let us be clear: we want to give everyone a job. The person who lost his job now lost his job, not because he was not needed in the labour market, but because now we had to create rules to reduce the effects of the epidemic, so that he could not go to work or get sick. He doesn't want to infect others, and most of all, he doesn't want to die. That's why he can't work now, so he needs to be taken care of. And let me get this straight. This isn't welfare! You shouldn't look down on them like that. It's not a benefit, they have to pay their wages, because they don't want to make others sick, they don't want to make themselves sick. That's what we're arguing about, if that's what you're saying. And we also have a debate when you say that this is a big historic package that the Prime Minister actually promised almost a month ago to announce; now perhaps on May 3, 4th, if we listened to it well yesterday and spent 10 thousand billion dollars on it. But there is one thing they do not tell us: this 10,000 billion will be spent on this economy in three years. So a third of what you're talking about is true right now. Not 18 percent, much less, in three years, that's what your State Secretarys said not so long ago at the Economic Committee meeting where we wanted to listen to Minister Palkovic, only he didn't make it to the Economic Committee meeting, but we could only listen to the State Secretarys. Believe me, everyone was looking forward to this package, especially for families' housing and financial security. They were looking forward to it, because your family support policy is basically based on tax waivers, tax incentives, loans, preferential loans. And both problems, because the person who started his job can't take advantage of the tax relief, and the person who took out the subsidised loan can't pay it back now. So, believe me, they were looking forward to watching the good international practices now and really choosing the best from it; the German example, if any, which is mentioned here: Kurzarbei, the shortened work. Everyone thought that this wasn't gonna be a fidesz thing, where there's gonna be a loud announcement, and then there's gonna be another little letter, and it's gonna turn out to be incomprehensible - I'm gonna risk it: it can only be used on pointless terms, and it's only for the chosen ones. You're the only ones who call them highly respected businesses in the national economy. Now maybe this will change. The news's been different since last night. The government decree was promised last night, and we hope that this promise will come out by tonight. But these international examples you're taking as a basis sometimes feel that you're going about it the way the Polish engineers did when they developed Fiat until it became a little Polski. [[István Szilárd Németh: That was a very weak joke.]] We want there to be a real German job protection programme that protects the workplaces of Hungarians and gives opportunities to those who have already lost their jobs because of the epidemic. This isn't welfare! And imagine that if someone had lost their job in March, he had a month left, a month left to find a job for himself; that's exactly the one month you think the epidemic will rage. Why can't this be extended for nine months? Why is this aid? They're no less valuable than before the outbreak. They want to do their job, but they can't do their job right now. And yes, we have a debate, we have a debate on how you are dealing with this crisis. You are going to handle this crisis with credit and you are going to pay off companies. They're offering loans to companies. Who will take out these loans when they are in economic decline? Who's gonna take out these loans when they don't know how they're gonna repay them. And that's a very important question. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Time! Time!]] They're giving these loans so that companies can pay back, not that they can execute this company later, and maybe someone can get these companies. These are our doubts. And our proposals were made earlier. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-21-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out that in such a difficult economic period, when a government is putting together an economic protection action plan, it needs to focus on two things. First, that plan can bring back economic growth, re-launch the economy and, together with it, replace and protect jobs in danger; instead of lost jobs, new jobs can be created. That's one aspect. The second aspect is that, even in such difficult economic times, fiscal and financial discipline must be maintained and taken seriously, because these are precisely the times when people with bad intentions are equal: speculators can attack and attack national economies, budgets, countries, currencies. [[9.40]] For this reason, this economic protection action plan must serve two objectives: the relaunch of the economy, the protection of jobs and disciplined farming, and this economic protection action plan meets both expectations. And yes, this is Hungary's biggest, most robust economic protection action plan, the economic dynamic programs included in it move 18-20 percent of GDP. Allow me to inform you that the consultation between the government and the economic sector is ongoing, and I think that this is normal, and, following these consultations, we have decided to introduce some new partial measures. One of the most important measures in this plan is the public wage support scheme that companies who have to face a loss of income due to the pandemic would be in danger of jobs with them, with redundancies in this pandemic, while there are companies that are more likely to reduce the working time of their employees, but keep them. And in order to ensure as much support as possible for these companies and to ensure as much as possible the protection of jobs that would be put at risk in this way, we have decided that the loss of working time can range from this point on to 15% to 75%, in Hungarian: in the case of two hours of remaining working hours, public wage support can also be used. We have significantly reduced the bureaucratic obligations involved, since, if ever, this is the time and justification of the situation, and from then on, the employment contracts can automatically change from the date of the decision, and there is no need to spend time and administration individually amending the employment contracts. We have decided that wage support can then also be applied to part-time employees, and that we have extended it to those employed in working time. And in order to reduce bureaucratic requirements even further, there is no need to demonstrate the close link between economic conditions and economic difficulties in the event of an emergency, but support will also be needed in distance work and home work. And if we had only introduced this one, then it would be fair to the Member's criticism that this is not enough, but not only this measure; we also made a clear decision to reduce the social tax by another 2 percent to 15.5 percent. This basically means that the tax rate will be almost half of what was three or four years ago. It's a clear, predictable tax reduction path. There is obviously a debate between us and the Member on loans to companies, but not really between us, but between you and the companies, because companies require the introduction of low-interest, preferential, long-term loans that can overcome their liquidity difficulties. This is why we have decided to launch a broad programme of credit and capital, thus publishing the most robust economic protection action plan in the history of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-16	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a pre-meeting address:. Why is there a dozering on the side of the road? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-17	Mr President, Dear House, I have to say that I am sad about yesterday's experience, because a crisis caused by an epidemic would require a real cooperation in the country, compared with which Parliament could be ashamed of itself at all pro-party level. First, the comedy around the delegation law, which the government has started, and then the subsequent polemics that side by side lead to a situation where this government does not seem to listen to positive, improving proposals, nor does it respond substantially to these professional suggestions. I am sad, because yesterday I felt respect for the exception, as if religious fanatics were arguing with each other: everyone in Parliament was pulsating the arguments of their own opinion bubble, and with minimal feedback to those who see the same story with a slightly different nuance and other optics, although I think that a fair patriot in the current situation just wants to use his country, and he wants the crisis caused by the epidemic to be brought to an end, or at least to mitigate the various damage. On the basis of statistics on the number of infected people, there is a number war between pro-government representatives, while Hungary is conducting one of the least tests at global level in proportion to the population. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's not true!]] . So you have no idea where the number of infected people really is, there are different tips and running around in the dark in this situation. And, well, there are real human tragedies, there are real people who, two or three weeks after an amputation, are now being sent home from a hospital. And what are you doing? In their own bubble of opinion, they say that the source is not credible, and that is not true. Then it turns out that the source is credible, a real person comes up with a real life story, and then they start pointing at the pre-2010 era, and they don't respond to this real person's real problem. That is why yesterday I was delighted to hear Minister Szijjártó's statement, which is absolutely in common with my view of the world, that specific professional answers should be given to specific professional questions, and that, along a professional discourse, we might be able to get this government to accept something from useful, improving ideas and to get out of its own opinion bubble, to return to the Hungarian reality. I mean, there is something we agree on: for example, following the suggestion of Jobbik, the government will obviously say that from its own wellhead, it doesn't matter at least in the form of alkalinized form, but it has been implemented, and I welcome that. So we can find points where opposition support or opposition initiative comes with a solution, and I am looking for these points. Therefore, listening to Minister, I am now asking specific questions, and I have numbered them to make the answer easier. In the first instance, I would like to ask you, for you, what 70% of this particular wage supplement is actually. Because what we see is that it would make up for some of the wage losses, and some of it would help with the government's replacement, but according to the industry's estimates, it couldn't be more than 20-25 percent of the total wage losses. And what we do see, and my second question is that 75,000 forints remain the ceiling for making up for someone's wages. Minister, can it be said that you cannot or do not want to compensate for the loss of the wages of the Hungarians who earn the average wage? After all, if you calculate this appropriate percentage of the average wage and this HUF 75,000 ceiling, you will find that anyone who earns an average wage in Hungary, and now half of his wages will be eliminated, even in the personal case of that person, the Government of Hungary will not help to restore this salary; because math does not come out, Minister. The HUF 75,000 is a minimal, dwarf amount that people who earn average wages may not necessarily be able to use up to 100 per cent for their own gain in terms of this replacement, as they will still lose their wages, even with state replacements. Thirdly, a very important question, Minister, what do you say to the person who has already lost his job? There was a number war in Parliament about the fact that this is 100,000, 125,000, or 300,000 people. I'm sure this number will multiply, so it's completely unnecessary for us to get into a number war, but what I can see is that government communication doesn't mean anything to anyone who's already in trouble. Fourthly, Minister, as I said, I am in favour of a moratorium on repayment of credit, but how can different bans on executives still pay the lowest pension, even the lowest salary. And these enforcement band of robbers, respect for the exception, because it is certain that there is a fair working among them, that we can work without interruption in the confusion, and the bans against which we have repeatedly spoken together, continue during a period of crisis, pulling tens and hundreds of billions from the pockets of Hungarians unduly. This is a socio-social cataclysm situation, and a government claiming to be national could not stand up to giving up all social classes and groups. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I would therefore like four specific professional answers to these four specific questions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[9.50]]
u2020-04-21-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, Of course, we are open to professional dialogue and consultation, but it is very difficult to have a calm and professional dialogue, so that the Hungarian opposition would constantly undermine an international campaign of lies, and we must devote a significant part of our time and capacity, even in this situation, to defending Hungary against completely unworthy, unjust and false accusations. Let us not be naive and let us not be hypocrites; there are obviously very serious similarities between the attacks in Brussels and the attacks in opposition. Therefore, if we are talking about a professional dialogue or, as one of your fellow political groups said last week, we are open to this, we would be happy to consult you at any time, but perhaps we should stop Componating the international campaign of lies in Hungary. As regards professional issues, honourable Member, first of all, 70 per cent is 75 per cent. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No, no! Seventy percent of 75!]] I'd like to change that again. So we've decided to change the 70 percent rule, and we've decided to change the 70 percent rule, and we've decided to change the 70 percent rule in the case of missing working time between 15 and 75 percent. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: 70% of this!]] the possibility of public wage support is available. That is why I say that even for two hours a day reduced working time, because 100 minus 75, 25 per cent, 8 per 25 per cent is two hours, so even if only two hours of working time is left on a day, public wage support can be used. In such a case, honourable Member, the worker receives his salary from two sources: firstly, he receives it from his employer, because he receives the payment for the remaining working hours from the employer and receives it from the State, through the district employment office. So you get paid from two sources. Obviously, it is a serious debate about the amount of money in this situation. However, I would not be so brave, honourable Member, as to minimize any amount in the current situation. Obviously, we are trying to find a better solution; obviously we are trying to make it easier for as many people as possible to receive public wage support. That is why we have made these changes to the state wage support rules. His other question is, what will happen to those who lose their jobs? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Those who lost him.]] or who have already lost their jobs: they will have a new job if investments come to Hungary, or companies already operating in Hungary invest again or new investors arrive. Workplace will be no different than investment. This is why it is very important that yesterday's new investment support programme has been launched, which provides greater support than ever for companies that invest and create jobs and which face fewer bureaucratic burdens than ever before. The European Union has authorised the increase of aid on a de minimis basis to EUR 800 000, so yesterday we launched our investment support programme, under which I will say once again that half of the value invested will be allocated by the State from budgetary sources, not from EU sources, from Hungarian national budgetary sources to the company which will invest at least EUR 150 000, thereby contributing to the resolution of labour market tensions in a meaningful way. The European Union authorisation procedure for this investment promotion programme in Hungarian has been completed in Brussels, and this week we will also launch a notification of the investment promotion programme, which will allow grants above EUR 800 thousand. And since we have always made an investment record in the last five years, thanks, among other things, to the operation of the investment promotion system, I am confident that this programme, which we have also developed in the context of consulting companies, will give rise to large-scale job creation. Finally, as regards the implementations, I can promise the Member that we will look into this issue, that we will look at it, and that I will personally inform the Member of its outcome. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let it be so! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-20	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current issues. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The economic strength and preparedness of a country is also well illustrated by how it reacts and how it overcomes crises. The extent to which a crisis is affecting the country and how it can emerge from it, it will also issue a certificate on the management of the years preceding the crisis. But let's see how this happened before. The 2008 economic crisis hit Hungary at a time when, in the years before the crisis, Ferenc Gyurcsány, the leader of today's opposition, is so true, right-wing colleagues [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] and its policy friends based the country on: high taxes; continuous austerity; poor families driven by foreign exchange loans; highly indebted municipalities, hospitals, schools; IMF loans; unemployment benefits; Europe's highest overhead costs; based the country on liberating inflation and unmanageable government debt. They cheated the budget numbers, lied in the morning, at night and at night, and the targets of their austerity were always the Hungarian families and small businesses, while serving the interests of foreign multinationals unsatisfyingly. Under Gyurcsányek, a significant part of the state's wealth became private property, thus increasing the country's exposure, even its own company received cheaper electricity during the great division. From 2002 to 2010, economic growth slowed down, inflation, especially for pensioners and lower incomes, has accelerated, unemployment has risen to the top. The financial adjustment required by Gyurcsány's irresponsible governance affected almost all sectors of society directly, but the later indirect economic impact of social damage became even more severe over time. We can remember, fellow Members, that Slovakia's economic growth was 36 times that of Hungary in the fourth quarter of 2007. Government debt has increased steadily, loans have been borrowed, and the Hungarian people have not received any. The year before the crisis we were talking about 2006 when the lack of a Hungarian budget was a European, even a world record, the deficit was only higher in war-torn Lebanon in the world. Hungary and the Hungarian society lost their competitiveness under Gyurcsány and Bajnai. This is the state of the crisis that hit Hungary at the time. The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments have tried to deal with the crisis with further austerity and aid, but they have only deepened the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we do not want to take this path. After a decade, the current opposition, under the leadership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, from small figures to diplomat communists, wants to push down the Hungarian people's throats one by one the same failed leftist policy, called crisis management, based on austerity and aid, but in fact crisis-enhancing policy, as it did in 2008-2009. During the 2008 crisis, left-wing liberal governments were the first to impose restrictions on pensioners and Hungarian families. They took away the 13th month pension, eliminated the housing discount, reduced the child for two years, and carried out interest-supported loans. VAT, excise duty, corporate tax and personal income tax were also raised. Family allowances and other social benefits have also been taxed. Local government subsidies have been reduced and public sector wages have been frozen. So far, the flash-forward from the past. It is unnecessary to evaluate the devastating results, and the Hungarian people did so in 2010 and ever since. What's happening now? Contrary to the foregoing, the economic crisis which had arisen as a result of the coronal virus epidemic in 2020 has found itself facing an economically strong, predictable, stable country. In the years prior to this period, economic growth in Hungary was already 5 percent, 850,000 new jobs were created and unemployment was below 3.5 percent. The budget deficit is predictable year after year, well below the Maastricht criteria, and the government debt has been reduced from 82 per cent to 66 per cent. The response of the national government, Fidesz-KDNP, to the crisis is that in this extremely difficult situation, we are also focusing on keeping jobs and creating new jobs. There is a need to create as many jobs as will be lost as a result of the Crown Virus crisis. Employers and workers receive targeted tax reductions and subsidies, and the State takes over part of the wage. Moreover, the 13th month pension taken by the Socialists is gradually being rebuilt. In addition to this year's wage increases, healthcare workers will receive a HUF 500,000 allowance. Hungarian families have a particularly bad experience with crises by constantly hearing the words of reform from Ferenc Gyurcsány, continuously announcing programs to them. The 20 points now announced by Ágnes Vadai are already the 28th program in the life of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[10.00]] There was a program called In the name of common sense, here we do not quite understand the word "sounding," but we continue to be proud of the principle: instead of aid, we want work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-21-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, we were indeed faced with a dilemma as to which option to choose to exit from the extremely deep economic crisis. We were under great international pressure to pursue the policy of the IMF, which was then adopted in international economic policy, based on the austerity that Ferenc Gyurcsány was keen to apply earlier, which might have been enough to survive, but we also had very strong and very serious doubts about this. Rather, we chose the path that was a courageous economic policy based on tax reduction, job creation and support for families, which was then called unorthodox by highly benign, wise, visionary and generally forward-looking economists. Now, everything I said in that sentence as an adjective should be understood in a strong quotation mark. So, with this unorthodox economic policy, we have achieved that in ten years we have been able to show the fastest economic growth rate in the European Union at the end of last year. The problem has become part of the solution in Europe, while not being indebted, but reducing public debt year after year. Here, I would like to underline once again what I have brought here for the suggestion of one of our opposition fellow Members, perhaps László Szakács, that the most important thing in crisis situations, in the face of global economic difficulties, is to make the country's economy and currency unattractive, or at least to do everything in order to ensure that the attacks that may be attempted remain unsuccessful. This is why it is important to keep reducing public debt and therefore it is important to have predictable, disciplined financial and budgetary management. We have not strayed from the path of economic policy of tax cuts since 2010, which is why we have also reduced taxes this year, despite the challenges of the global economy. Reducing social tax by another 2 percentage points is a major help to the economy, helping companies and helping workers alike. At the same time, when we put together economic policy measures that can provide a solution to the current situation, we must take into account that Hungary has the 10th most open economy in the world. Thus, the performance of the Hungarian economy is extremely determined by the external economic conditions. The development of the world economy has a major impact on the performance of the Hungarian economy, because although we are only 92 in terms of population in the world, Hungary can produce the 34th largest export performance. There are 35 countries in the world that can produce exports over EUR 100 billion a year, and we Hungarians are among them, which clearly shows the efficiency, expertise and competitiveness of the Hungarian workforce. Therefore, we must pay particular attention to the fact that Hungarian companies can maintain their competitiveness on the world market even in difficult circumstances. Therefore, we must particularly help Hungarian companies which either produce for export markets themselves or serve companies producing for export in Hungary as members of export value chains as small and medium-sized enterprises. We will therefore launch a three-pillar credit, guarantee and insurance programme, which will open a HUF 450 billion credit line for Hungarian businesses in terms of investments and working capital lending, where we will apply a six-year term. The interest rate is between 0.1 and 2.5 percent. For small and medium-sized enterprises, working capital loans are granted at a rate of 0.1 per cent within a year. In addition, we are launching a guarantee scheme for businesses, as we know that in these difficult times, commercial banks like to push their customers to increase their collateral pool. In order to do this, businesses need to mobilise additional financial resources, and here we are setting up a guarantee scheme so that this does not cause further difficulties. In addition, we are introducing an insurance product that provides a bridge for businesses that sell their products and services abroad in the event of a 365-day delay in payment, and it is necessary to remain on the external markets even with the adoption of delayed payment conditions. Because what matters to us is that these companies' competitiveness [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] preserve and even continuously improve the future, so that when the new conditions are set, Hungarian companies can start from the best starting position. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-24	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a pre-meeting address:. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Soon six weeks ago, the government declared an emergency due to the coronal virus outbreak. We can recall that the first disease was registered on 4 March when the virus was detected in two Iranian students. A week later, the government announced the emergency very quickly and carefully. This was an important measure taken in time, as it contributed to a much slower, more manageable increase in the number of infected people, not in Europe and later in America. The more disciplined we are, the more we can keep the epidemic going. Today we can say that the Hungarian measures have been effective, and we have managed to contain the virus. We slowed down the virus so our hospitals could be prepared. Thank you very much for the sacrifice of healthcare workers. Dear House, In recent weeks, the government has taken a number of additional measures to protect the health of Hungarian people, as well as the protection of Hungarian families, the economy and jobs. Companies were granted temporary tax exemptions, more than 81 thousand small businesses were exempted from the flat-rate payment obligation for kata until 30 June. The government has suspended evictions, seizures and tax executions. It also extended the rights of children, children and children to the end of the emergency. Important decisions have also been taken on the fundamental re-alignment of the budget. The government has established the basis for the control of the epidemic, as well as the basis for economic protection and the re-launch of the economy. So far, we have spent more than 500 billion forints on the control of the epidemic. The loan programme for the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises has been launched, so the Hungarian National Bank will also help. We've started a job security, wage support program. The tax office allocates VAT to businesses more quickly. Another 2 percentage points decrease in the rate of social contribution tax. From 2021, the key to small business tax will be reduced to 11 percent and the use of the SZÉP card will be even more favourable. We need to re-launch the economy, create at least as many new jobs as it does as a result of the coronal virus epidemic. But everyone doesn't like it. We find it amazing and shocking that the opposition objects to all measures and does not want to be part of the solution. This proves once again that they want to fight not the virus, but the government. And Brussels is acting the same way. In its decision adopted on Friday, the European Parliament criticised the extraordinary measures in Hungary. Even during the epidemic, Brussels attacks Hungary, the Hungarian rule of law, using double standards, and again urges the European Commission to proceed under Article 7. Instead of attacking, we should focus on protecting against the epidemic. We need European cooperation and united action. The epidemic is a common challenge for Europe as a whole. Therefore, there is a need to give preference to common interests in the EU, where it is not timely and tasteless to mix the necessary measures with ideological debates to save lives. It is unacceptable that some wish to create a new Sargentini report from every report in the European Parliament. Instead, Member States should be encouraged to get on their feet and help people. In the context of the Hungarian extraordinary legal order, questioning the guarantee of fundamental rights, these accusations are all unfounded. [[10.10]] The EP and others are falsely claiming that the emergency has been declared indefinitely in Hungary, that it will remain that way forever and that Parliament will not meet. Well, we're here in the Hungarian Parliament right now! Thank you very much, Minister Péter Szijjártó, for always defending the Hungarian position in this regard. You can be sure that the Fidesz fraction supports you and the government with all its power. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, When we listen to baseless accusations from abroad, it simply does not occur to us how these people have time to do so. So how is it that the Greek Prime Minister, the Finnish Minister for European Affairs, the German Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, the Danish Foreign Minister, the Dutch Foreign Minister, now that thousands of people die every day in Europe, are infected by tens of thousands every day, deals with and disseminates lies about who will end the emergency in Hungary? How is that possible? Do these people have an hour or two more every day? Or how can they have time to do so when we are faced with one of the most important and mysterious challenges in European history, and we should literally save lives? Meanwhile, these people lie about the fact that in Hungary the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Prime Minister were given endless and unlimited authority. Their lies go from statement to statement day to day. But that doesn't bother them, nor does it stop them from repeating these lies every day. Today in Die Welt, a politician from the German Social Democratic Party writes that there is no parliamentary democracy if there is no parliament. Oh, here we are. We're sitting here. We're sitting here. And after that, they still say day by day that the Hungarian Parliament does not meet, the work of the Hungarian Parliament was impossible by the Crown Virus Act. Even today, let alone said, it is written down while the Hungarian Parliament is working here. When we listen to criticisms from the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and Commissioner Reynders, I think it is now clear that these people have frustrated Hungary and have sworn revenge against us, and I will tell you why. Charles Michel, former Prime Minister of Belgium, Didier Reynders, was Belgium's Foreign Minister when their government coalition failed because they could not agree within a coalition to support or support the global migration compact. It became clear that the Belgian government, headed by Charles Michel and Didier Reynders in the Foreign Minister's seat, clearly blamed the Hungarian Government for the fact that this matter had come up at all. We were the ones who made it clear that it was not possible to move the global migration compact under the carpet, which portrays migration as the most favourable phenomenon in the history of mankind, which says that all countries in the world must be either from the start or from transit or from the destination, it takes away the country's right to decide, as we do, that we do not want to be any of these three, and why we should not make that decision. He does not say a word about the right of people to live in peace, security and peace in their own country. He does not say a word about the right of every country to defend its cultural, religious and historical identity. They wanted to move this global migration compact. We spoke out loud against this. We were one of the five countries that voted against this, and this was the case that led to the break-up of the then Belgian government coalition. That's why the Belgian Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs failed. They have now frustrated us and launched a vendetta against us, and that is why they are attacking us, because their attacks have no factual basis. We must admit, fellow Members, that liberal mainstream is the most intolerant trend that has ever existed in terms of political ideologies. One of the most intolerant trends, since freedom of opinion and the right to freedom of expression apply to anyone as long as that person agrees with them, and if someone takes a stand against liberal mainstream, then they will start to attack and disable it within their profession. Look at what happens to journalists who dare to say that it is worth at least paying attention to the facts, what attacks are being waged by Western European or American politicians who dare to speak up for us and see what lies are being spread about the current Hungarian government in the Western European press. Not to mention that when we talk about the fact that there is no specific deadline for the end of the emergency in the Hungarian Crown Virus Act, there are three other countries in the European Union that have adopted the same law, and there are four countries where the government has exclusive right, ignoring Parliament, to extend that particular exceptional situation. Unfortunately, I must say, fellow Members, that the double standard will still be here, and we must continue to expect the attacks of liberal mainstream. We have one thing to do: keep working. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-28	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's debate. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and he agrees that during the further discussion of the proposal, Mr Vice-President may chair the meeting. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the Parliament has accepted my motion by a visible majority. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order as provided for in the previously published Director General's Information. I would like to call on my fellow Members who have taken part in this debate to remain in the Chamber, if possible, only the Members who spoke in the debate and the two Members who asked for their subsequent speeches, in order to preserve the health of all of us. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the presentation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, until its closure. The government referral is T/10092. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the Parliament will discuss the proposal as an EU item on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-21-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to recognise the mandatory scope of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. Under the mandate of the Council of the European Union, the Agreement was signed in Brussels on 19 October 2018 at the 12th meeting of the Heads of State and Government of Asia-Europe. The entry into force of the Agreement requires ratification by the Parties and notification by the Parties of the completion of the Agreement, which is currently underway, so that the Agreement has not yet entered into force. The agreement sets new foundations for cooperation between the European Union and Singapore in areas such as health, environment, climate change, energy, taxation, education and culture, labour, employment and social issues, science and technology and transport. It also identifies important points of cooperation in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and small arms and terrorism. [[10.20]] The agreement is of paramount importance to the EU Member States, including Hungary, both in terms of political and economic relations, and contributes to their deepening. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-21-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Following Indonesia, Vietnam and the Philippines, the Union will continue with Singapore a series of second generation agreements with ASEAN countries. The Treaty, which is a significant achievement for EU foreign policy, was signed in Brussels in October 2018. The agreement fits well with both the Union and Hungary's long-term foreign policy visions. We're talking about an incredibly comprehensive contract. It covers security policy, health, environmental protection, education, culture, human rights issues, and we could still list them. It also allows for more stable and effective cooperation in areas that require international cooperation. These include counterterrorism, the fight against organised cross-border crime or, in fact, climate policy. However, in addition to all the practical aspects of the Treaty in question, it is also of symbolic value, a strong and strong message that the European Union takes political and economic engagement in the Southeast Asian region seriously. Such a comprehensive treaty contributes to strengthening the political dialogue and promoting the values of the Union and our country. Dear fellow Members, I think it is important to maintain the ability to plan for the long term in the current situation. During the global borders and physical isolation, we must continue to cultivate and build our external relations. I believe that, with the support of the Convention, we can also contribute to this work, thereby facilitating dialogue and cooperation between nations. In view of this, the Fidesz faction will support the publication of the agreement, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not surprise you, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports the publication of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. Thus, as in its title, the subject is the recognition of the binding scope of the Agreement, the parties being the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Singapore on the one hand. In this agreement, the Parties shall lay down at the level of principle to confirm the universal declaration of human rights and their strong commitment to the principles of the rule of law and good governance, respecting the common values set out in the UN Charter. The Parties reaffirm their commitment to the principle of independence of the courts and the fight against corruption. The main objectives of cooperation are: to develop cooperation in regional and international fora and organisations, to develop cooperation in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, to develop cooperation in the fight against the most serious crimes affecting the international community, to develop cooperation against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery and against the illicit accumulation and trafficking of other weapons. The expansion and development of trade is also an important objective and cooperation on investment. In addition, cooperation in justice, freedom, security, legal cooperation in the fields of data protection, migration, smuggling, trafficking in human beings, international organised crime, money laundering, the fight against illicit drugs. Cooperation in the fields of customs, macroeconomic policy, financial institutions, taxation, small and medium-sized enterprises, information society, science and technology, energy, statistics, transport, education, culture, environmental protection and health, and increasing the participation of the Republic of Singapore in EU cooperation programmes covering Asia. The parties would like to strengthen their role in improving their image of each other in each other's regions, to establish regular dialogue in each other's society, to enhance mutual understanding, to raise awareness of different cultural, religious and social views. So these are the main goals that this agreement seeks to achieve. I would like to highlight two of these. On the one hand, migration, which is still a very topical topic, and it has been one of the last five years in the European Union. The fact that the European Union and the Member States take this seriously is addressed in Article 19 (four) (d) which they would describe literally: the development of an effective and preventive policy against illegal immigration, smuggling of migrants and trafficking in human beings is one of the main tasks. So here, too, preventing all forms of illegal immigration would be a very important task. Article 36 deals with health, which is very topical today. The Parties agree to exchange information to improve health conditions, cooperate on early detection, prevention and surveillance, in particular with a view to preventing, preventing and combating serious infectious diseases. Obviously, the Covid-19 virus is part of that. How can this agreement be implemented? In particular, it will be practical for the Parties to set up a Joint Committee to ensure proper functioning and implementation, to identify priorities and propose to promote its objective. The Joint Committee shall meet at least every two years, but shall hold its meetings in Brussels and Singapore whenever there is a need. A co-chair will be appointed, i.e. Singapore on the one hand and the European Union on the other. Special subcommittees shall be set up in the Joint Committee. If this Agreement enters into force, if it is adopted by the Member States, it shall be valid for five years, but shall be automatically extended for one year to one year if no Party declares in writing its intention not to extend it six months before its expiry. So he could live in the very long run. This agreement, which we are talking about here, is a second generation agreement, since we have already concluded this with ASEAN countries. In 1980 there was the first cooperation agreement, which was quite obsolete over 40 years, and it is therefore necessary to conclude a new, more timely agreement. This has already been concluded with Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam, so Singapore will be the fourth ASEAN State to conclude this treaty. ASEAN is also the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which has ten members. It was founded in 1967 by Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, and later joined by Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia in the eighties and nineties. Why is this region important? Well, it's important for a lot of things. For one thing, almost 10 percent of the Earth's population lives in this region. Singapore is a dwarf city state, but its population is 6 million. His per capita GDP, on the other hand, is over $50,000, one of the richest states in the world, the third largest financial centre in the world, and is a major leader in the world economy. In view of this, we consider it important to reach a cooperation agreement and therefore Jobbik also supports the entry into force of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The European Union, including Hungary, places great emphasis on developing and extending cooperation with third countries. The cooperation agreement now being announced covers almost all areas of economic and social life. Singapore is one of the most competitive economies in the world, mainly thanks to its stable political background and its highly developed business environment. The city state increases its own exports as quickly as possible in knowledge-intensive industries throughout Asia. Singapore is also a major global player in renewable energy and energy efficiency. It is of particular importance for us to broaden education and scientific cooperation, particularly in the fields of research and development and innovation, through projects with high added value. Singapore's digital development is at the forefront of the world. The highly developed basic infrastructure of the Singapore economy, the legal, educational, research and development and business environment offer significant growth opportunities for innovative Hungarian businesses and startups. [[10.30]] In the development of our bilateral economic relations, the marketisation of knowledge-based Hungarian companies is a priority, especially logistics, financial infrastructure, medical technology, biotechnology, smart city systems, solutions that make high-tech manufacturing industries more efficient, such as industrial automation and robotics, our continuous goal is to expand cooperation. Cooperation is also possible with regard to self-leading technologies by sharing mutual experience and launching new joint projects. Hungarian companies can develop partnerships in the Singapore market in the following areas: medical devices, hospital design, export, pharmaceuticals, research and development, bioinformatics, food safety, animal health and human diagnostics. It is worth mentioning that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has recently signed a cooperation agreement with the Singapore Space Technology Association. The agreement also covers the development of Earth observation and climate change, research and development, space exploration and space communication equipment. Previously, the horizontal aviation agreement between the European Union and Singapore was signed in 2006 and negotiations on the establishment of comprehensive aviation agreements between the EU and ASEAN countries are ongoing. We hope that the agreement on comprehensive aviation cooperation will be welcomed here as soon as possible in the Hungarian Parliament. In view of the above, we support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is a great pleasure to be here to discuss such important legislative proposals. I would like to respond to Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has not waited for the possible debate of this important Singapore Convention, that we are indeed, the Hungarian Parliament, and we are adopting important laws. I'm just like people say around the Christmas market that there's a candy bar that contains trace amounts of cocoa. I don't know, you know that saying. Well, that is how we are now, indeed, now living in a democracy that is such a parliamentarism that it contains traces of truly democratic elements. So we're really here, we're negotiating important laws, and then we can tell CNN. [[To Balázs Hidvégi in the room:]] I see that there are Members of the European Parliament, you can tell in communication what the problem is, because everything is fine here. In fact, there may also be a nice screen that we'll be putting up at 6-7 p.m. when we're talking about, say, the civil servants of the cultural sphere. So many smart, good things have been said in front of me by the fellow Members, that I am practically not going into the details right now, what is in it. It's just a thought experiment, if you've already submitted a comment in advance, and I can see how you're paying attention to how this Singapore is now some kind of symbol, because just yesterday, Matolcsy National Bank President and he's Jolly Joker on these economic issues, as far as we know from the outside, just said that the new direction is Singapore. It is very good, so from what has been said here, how much GDP per capita is. I would like Hungary to be there, but I would like to make sure that, in the meantime, the structure of the state is something that may be working in such a democratic rule of law. Here we stand, so let's be careful that the Singapore model really has a lot of beauty, but let's not go over everything that works there. And speaking of Singapore, I want you to pay attention to the fact that there were things that were going forward in education, health care and the operation of the state. But the point is that the Socialist Party and this is the essence of the announcement, which is why I stand up for this proposal and thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-21-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Allow me, before we continue our work, to welcome Mr Balázs Hidvégi, MEP. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Honourable Parliament! It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I'm asking you, does anyone want to live with that? [[There's no such signal.]] [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Further speeches by Members are also possible. I'm asking you, does anyone want to live with that? (There is no such indication. ) I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'm asking the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-21-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the factions for their support for the bill. Our fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, made a few comments about the operation of Parliament, a little off the subject, that this contains traces of cocoa. The climate crisis, climate change, environmental protection and market surveillance, in order to list only a few of the topics to be discussed today, I think they are not negligible issues. So let's not degrade our operation today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-40	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the amendment of certain laws relating to the exchange of information within the Schengen Information System for the purposes of harmonisation until its closure follows. The government referral is T/10093. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Security is still the most important community value, and Hungary is a safe country, one of the safest countries in Europe. The bill before us also serves this purpose. The aim of the bill is to amend the legislation necessary for the proper functioning of the Schengen information system in Hungary in accordance with EU legislation. The general objective of EU legislation is to ensure a high level of security, the maintenance of public security and public order within the area of freedom, security and justice, and the protection of security within the territory of the Member States, using the information provided through the Schengen information system, and to ensure the application of the provisions on the movement of persons within the territory of the Member States. The Schengen information system can ensure a high level of security by supporting operational cooperation between the competent national authorities, in particular the police, customs and immigration authorities. The objective of operational cooperation shall be to ensure that border and law enforcement authorities, the foreign police authority and the asylum authority and judicial authorities have access to the information necessary to carry out their duties; the detection of multiple identities, the correct identification of bona fide persons and the fight against identity abuse, the facilitation of identity checks on third-country nationals in the territory of the Member States and the facilitation of the access of law enforcement authorities to Union information systems for purposes other than law enforcement in cases where this is necessary for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of serious crimes and terrorism. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The so-called second generation Schengen information system entered into force in 2013. The EU acts, which need to be adopted in order to implement this bill, aim to further develop and improve the existing system. In addition to maintaining or further developing existing alerts, new types of alerts have been created at EU level. In order to make the return system of illegally staying third-country nationals in the territory of the European Union more effective, a category of return alert has been established. A new type of alert in the field of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, for example, is a necessary alert to prevent the travel of a child at risk of illegal abduction. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The acts of the European Union relating to the Schengen Information System entered into force on 27 December 2018. In accordance with the planned timetable, the enhanced Schengen information system will be activated in a sharp manner at the earliest in December 2021. [[10.40]] Prior to this, national developments and tests carried out by Member States in addition to central developments at EU level should be carried out, and legislative amendments necessary for its implementation should also be made. Dear Parliament, The operation of the Schengen information system has so far contributed to the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people. This is a system to which accession and effective cooperation is in Hungary's national interest, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-42	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's speech. [[To Szabó Timea, Tordai Bence and Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea, speaking standing up:]] I would also like to ask my fellow Members, if possible, for the sake of their health, to conduct the group reconciliation elsewhere. Thank you for your understanding. [[Conversational representatives take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-21-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to introduce the necessary domestic legislation for the implementation of three European Parliament and Council regulations, a minor amendment of the sectoral laws concerned. Accordingly, the bill aims to simplify and clarify the rules that have been a problem in practical use. The bill contains general rules on the Schengen information system and the definition of tasks related to the management of alerts and other data, as well as data protection and warranty rules. Following the European Commission's Communication on sound and intelligent information systems to strengthen border management and security published in April 2016, a number of EU legislative proposals and recommendations have been made to address structural gaps in existing information systems, maximise their use, develop new complementary systems to address information gaps and ensure interoperability between systems. Interoperability shall ensure, inter alia, that end-users, in particular border police and law enforcement bodies, the Alien Police Authority and the Asylum Authority and judicial authorities have access to the information necessary to carry out their tasks in a timely, smooth, regular and controlled manner. It also allows the detection of multiple identities linked to the same biometric series, the correct identification of bona fide persons and the fight against identity abuse. For Hungary, the new Schengen information system is of particular importance, as it allows more decisive action against terrorism, illegal migration, cross-border crime and irregular border crossings, thereby creating greater security for all European and Hungarian citizens. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As requested by the Member, I give the floor, if possible, to Mr Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-21-45	Ladies first. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to respond to the voice of the Member, but I think that today will be an opportunity. [[Defiance.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, The current bill is of a legal harmonisation nature in the European Union. The aim of the bill is also to make the rules that may have been a problem in the past in practical use simpler and more transparent. The bill also includes general rules on the Schengen information system and the definition of tasks related to the management of alerts and other data, as well as data protection and warranty rules. For us, the free movement within Europe resulting from the Schengen agreement is one of Europe's greatest achievements. Right now, at the time of the pandemic caused by the corona virus, we are most aware of the extent to which European countries are dependent on each other by opening border crossing points. Even today and yesterday, Minister, he spoke about commuting, worker commuting on both sides of the border and the free movement of goods, and I think that these should not be ignored in the current situation. We hope that once the European emergency has passed, the institution for the free movement of citizens within the Schengen internal area will return to normal. We Christian Democrats support the institution of free movement in peace, which can only be imagined with very strict external border control. This is essential for us, because our country has very long external Schengen borders, Hungary is neighbouring four countries that are not members of the Schengen area. We should also remember that although there is not so much attention to migration at the moment, but this has not stopped, the Balkan migration route was as active a few months ago as it was in 2015, and we do not know how long Turkey will be able to or will be willing to hold back more than four million migrants in Europe at any time after the end of the pandemic. Therefore, the institution of internal Schengen free movement also requires external border protection and border control. At external Schengen border crossing points, the entry of third-country nationals must be checked, fully screened for unauthorised entry, as well as criminals, terrorists and illegal border crossings. For the security of European citizens, the Schengen Information System will then include more precise, more detailed information on third-country nationals. The system will then have to include a mechanism to notify the Member States if third-country nationals have failed to comply with their obligation to return within the period for voluntary departure. This mechanism should help Member States to fulfil their obligations to implement return decisions and their obligations to impose entry bans in respect of third-country nationals who have failed to comply with their obligation to return. In the event that the third-country nationals concerned are released from detention without the removal being carried out, the return alert shall be entered without delay by the Member States concerned into the Schengen information system. More accurate reporting due to more detailed and practical alerts, we hope that it will result in a safer, better functioning Schengen information system in the future. Therefore, the KDNP Group supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-46	Thank you very much, Congressman, and thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mrs Varga-Damm, will be here to speak. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-47	[[He's jogging the mike.]] Does it work? [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: Yes.]] Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/10093 ahead. Proposal No 1860 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 November 2018 on the use of the Schengen Information System for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. This Regulation has amended a number of previous regulations or Council decisions to address, on the one hand, the problems caused by new migration challenges and to overcome the difficulties caused by incomplete regulation of previous decisions and regulations in practice. Of course, after terrorism has decreased slightly in the world in recent years, but the freaks in which they have evolved have not been eliminated, therefore some amendments to the Schengen rules to combat terrorism internationally are also being made. This bill aims to simplify and clarify the rules, which have been a problem in practical use, and sets out general rules and alerts on the Schengen information system and other data handling tasks, and introduces data protection and warranty rules. This Act consists of 74 paragraphs and amends 11 laws concerning the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses, the police, national security services, travel abroad, the register of road transport, the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, the entry and residence of third-country nationals, and the 2012 CLXXXI on the National Tax and Customs Office, the Schengen Information System. amending law, the APB system and the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings. [[10.50]] If you'll allow us, let's remember the Schengen system for a few words. The Schengen Convention is part of the European Union's first and third pillars, which primarily meant the abolition of internal border surveillance and joint control of external borders. Not all EU countries are members of the Convention, 22 countries apply it and four non-EU countries apply it and five EU countries do not apply it. The Agreement was signed in Luxembourg in Schengen on 14 June 1985 by the then five members of the European Economic Community, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France and the Federal Republic of Germany, on board the vessel Princesse Marie-Astrid, which meant that control of their common borders between these countries had gradually ceased. This has not yet simplified the possibilities for border crossing, but has already set the prospect of breaking down borders between countries. The Agreement was extended on 19 June 1990 to the so-called Schengen Implementation Convention, which defined the process of implementing the Agreement and made it viable. Passenger traffic was constantly strengthened by the abolition of internal border control and the States Parties could focus on their external border controls. Finally, the Agreement and the Convention entered into force fully in 1995, with Spain, Portugal and, of course, other Member States joining the five founders. The Schengen Agreement and the Schengen acquis were fully broken down by the Amsterdam Treaty and, with its entry into force on 2 October 1997, the Amsterdam Treaty completely rearranged internal and judicial cooperation within the European Union. This has thus become part of the 3rd pillar of the Maastricht Treaty, and decisions on nine issues have then been decided by ministers meeting within the EU Council on internal border crossing and external border control, visa issue, immigration regulation and asylum. Our country has been a member of the Convention since 2007 and has since joined Romania, Bulgaria and Croatia in 2013. Romania's EU accession negotiations were concluded in December 2004, it became a full member on 1 January 2007 and Bulgaria's EU accession negotiations were concluded in the summer of 2004, who also entered the EU on 1 January 2007. Why do I bring up the historical reflection of these two countries in the EU? I bring it up because, if we are talking about the Schengen information system and the border crossing, border control, then I think that the question of why Hungary did not push it, why it did not act decisively towards Romania being the Schengen border and the Romanian-Hungarian border being part of the Schengen border, which was actually the most important objective of the Schengen Convention. In connection with Romania's accession to the EU, the Hungarian Government's position was at the time: the government is ready to give all the assistance to Romania, which is at the door of membership, in order to successfully complete the preparations for accession, but is also actively involved in monitoring the fulfilment of the commitments made in the accession negotiations. Enlargement is of particular importance for Hungary, because the Union is not only expanding with two members, but also a major neighbour and two million Hungarians are becoming members of the European Union. The accession of Romania contributes to the cross-border peaceful unification of Hungarians, and the rights of European citizenship facilitate the achievement of our national policy objectives. This proposal also states that the easier and closer cooperation with our Hungarian national brothers living outside our borders is the most important element of the EU's joint membership. Today, Hungary's GDP is 67.8 percent compared to the EU average of 28, but in 2004 it was 39 percent, i.e. almost half. In 2004, Hungary was in an extremely difficult economic situation to check the borders of seven countries, so I think that the Hungarian government bodies that have been conducting accession negotiations at any time should be regarded as a particularly serious mistake that they have not called for the Schengen border to be assigned to Romania. Of the seven borders of Hungary, only Austria was prepared for the Schengen border in 2004, since then Slovakia, Slovenia and Croatia have gradually taken over this task in ten years, but we still have Serbia, Romania and Ukraine. If there had been no migratory pressure, perhaps we would not have mentioned this question, because the Hungarian border protection has a very long history and has always done extraordinary quality work, but the migratory pressure has shown that we should have demanded the Schengen border of our neighbouring countries at least as strongly as minority rights. It's a matter of at least that weight. But while minority rights are here, let me talk about one issue, which I must say, I hope that I am not the only one with a heart problem and a heart problem, and I will probably give my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, an opportunity to respond to my presentation. The vote on the citizens' initiative for the equality of regions and cultural maintenance of regions ends on 7 May 2020. Which means there's only 17 days left. Of the one million signatures needed to be dealt with by the European Commission, 273 294 signatures have been signed so far. To date, Hungary has signed 218 115 signatures, i.e. 80 percent of the signatures so far. Hungary had a minimum of 15 750, thus achieving 1384,86 percent in the signing. But let's go to where our Hungarian national brothers live. Romania still has 36 421 signatures of the minimum of 24 thousand, i.e. only 151,75 percent. And what is the conclusion that we can draw from this? The citizens of Hungary would like nine times more to create cultural and territorial autonomy for minorities living in the territory of Romania than the citizens living there. At the final election 120,000 envelopes were received from Hungarians across the border as a result of the letter votes. If 120,000 people thought a half a year, nearly two years ago, that our national brothers wanted to take part in the elections in Hungary, and that the citizens of Hungary are fighting for everything that means autonomy or at least cultural autonomy, how is it that six people think that they will sign this initiative electronically as our national brothers have voted? Something about this is wrong. But let's keep going. In Slovakia, there are only 10 398 signatures, although at least minimum, but in Slovenia 59, Croatia 79 and Austria only 620. This means that our national brothers out of the country believe in a very large part that their cultural autonomy is guaranteed. Because if they didn't think so, they would support this initiative at least to the same extent as Hungarian people in Hungary. But back to the proposal in part: the proposal is, in my view, the strictest provision of all time in terms of border crossing, residence and transit and return of third-country nationals for the future. I find it hard to imagine that more stringent rules could be made. Whenever the Ministry of Interior makes a new proposal, I always say to the Minister of Interior that, of course, we support all the provisions and practices relating to the fight, prevention or retaliation of crimes, we support any proposal that mitigates or completely eliminates the impact of international terrorism on Hungary. We support all the rules governing the fight against the migration crisis and the fact that all the somewhat unfortunate, somewhat poor people who come from the Middle East and Asia cannot flood the territory of Hungary, because Hungary's society and economy are not fit to support, manage or create opportunities for them. So we are in agreement with all that is to overcome them, but all such proposals will be put into practice. [[11.00]] Let us look at how many Council regulations and decisions have been amended by this European Council Decision of November 2018 and how many practical problems have emerged that have not been thought of before! I only hope, and the Jobbik Movement for Hungary hopes that if this system is introduced, it will indeed achieve the goals it serves. But we must not forget that these rules are never intended for citizens who, in any way, are not migrants, nor criminals, nor terrorists, nor harm the interests of our country, nor of any country of the European Union, nor for those who are subjected to tortures that they do not deserve. The other problem is that these rules are now so terribly complicated that I feel that every policeman should have a Bible in his hands, a Bible of control and human research, given that I can no longer imagine that there is a policeman in Hungary who really knows this system of rules so that he will be able to keep all its points to the full. With great respect, I would ask the colleagues and leaders of the Ministry of Interior to come up with a training system, which means that the police who are working to comply with these rules should not have confusion in their minds, should not be uncertain and should simplify the systems to the level of everyday practice so that they can really function effectively. Thank you very much for your attention. Have a good day, everyone. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I really am always surprised that my group entrusts me with such important tasks, and really, when I was preparing for this matter, it was indeed in my mind, but now that I have listened to the thoughts of my better fellow Member, there really is an amazing wide range of ideas about this agenda. But let me return to the point mentioned in my previous comment, because I do think it is important that this Parliament works now and how. I understand the Prime Minister's every sentence, and I understand everyone's sentence that Parliament could actually eliminate the emergency at any time in any way, but, you know, it's like when three wolves go into the henhouse, there's two hens in there, and they vote on what to do with lunch. So it looks like nothing, but there's no chance for people who might think differently about how, how, how this world should work. The other thing I would like to say is that politics is a virtual science, however much we try, and today's communication techniques are trying to make it a very tangible product. I had a very good friend, a teacher who could no longer be with us, many of them worked with him in the room, they knew him, his name was Péter Kiss, he was former Chancellor in the previous period, he was a very, very wise and clever man. He was an engineer himself, I was an engineer, and he always said that the difference between engineering and politics was that if we put together a force bar, and the different gears are all in place, and if we roll it, it should turn at the end. The difference in politics is that if we ever take out a gear and turn it and tell people that you see it spinning, and until they believe it, politics will work. But there's a moment when they won't believe it. That's what I wanted, I know it's funny that I'm talking about Schengen, but I wanted to say that this is the point that there is a moment when communication and reality, if they're permanently separated, then the problem is that everything that's recovered doesn't come down a bit, then everything that's recovered will collapse in some form. The other thing I'd like to say is that I think it's a bit of a response to all the Members in front of me. Very interesting, this may be a age-class question, that when I hear the word Schengen, I really feel a very, very important and very happy feeling. I am very sorry that world politics has gone that way, and communication in Hungary has gone to the point where, when we talk about Schengen, we are trying to jump on the migrant issue, the refugee issue, with a very small jump. I can honestly say that for my age, I graduated from the university in the late 1980s, all that happened around the Berlin Wall, and I was still in Berlin, so that I was able to stay on the subway that went to West Berlin with our last few years passport, so it really is for me what this Schengen word means, it is really about opening up opportunities, opening borders, and perhaps, I think Congressman Nacsa said that free movement is one of the greatest achievements of the Union. Let us really stay at this point, and any proposal, any item about how, how to make this more precise, how to make it more effective, how, how to eliminate those who abuse this, and I think it is very important to present it, so that everything that can be excluded from this can be further clarified, it can be made even more so that those who abuse it, but it is an opportunity for those who can live and want to live with it, I think it is very important. So, I'm sorry, I was once again in the easy position of not being able to compete with the content analysis in the room, and I would like to say again that we will support the proposal and thank you very much for the opportunity.
u2020-04-21-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are talking about a proposal for harmonisation of laws, but at the same time it concerns very important policy areas, and it was said in the debate that we are talking about security, we are talking about border surveillance, we are talking about guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian and European people. I think that at the beginning of a parliamentary debate day it is appropriate to start by saying that there is now a special situation to thank all those working today for the security of the Hungarian people on the front line. Obviously, this is a special period, which is a particularly challenging one at a time of the epidemic, so I think that this should be taken into account. Very briefly, therefore, it has been said by my fellow Members and the rapporteur that this is a proposal for harmonisation, so we have reviewed it in this way, and obviously this is eligible in a formal manner, including the fact that we need to draw attention to a very, very many important issues. I would just like to say that a little bit of criticism of legislation, criticism of government legislation, is that there was not enough time for proper professional discussions here either, so somehow the government, by preparing legislation, does not follow the principles of conciliation that it otherwise envisages for itself. I think it is important to note that it would also be good if the government could change that. Turning to the point, it is very, very important principles, the principle of free movement, and the need to guarantee security and protection of external borders in this context. I am very pleased that the national political dimension has been raised, obviously this is an extremely important issue for us, and it is also the security policy issue, whether in relation to migration or terrorism, which has obviously not been given such attention in recent months, but our illusion may not be that in the future, not only in recent years, but will be a challenge to the greater extent. So obviously there must be a policy area for security policy and the protection of the European Union's external borders, which has not yet been given priority in European politics. I myself, as a member of the Committee of the Regions, have experienced for several years how difficult it is to treat this area in such a way that the European political elite is taking this issue with sufficient seriousness, but at the same time it is felt, and the great political forces that govern the European Union feel that this is a legitimate expectation for the citizens of the European Union to pay much more attention to security, security policy and the protection of people, and to provide resources accordingly. Obviously, this will require fundamental structural changes. Similarly, when we talk about such issues in domestic politics, it should be pointed out that it is the first and most important task that people who work to preserve our daily security should be given proper respect for financial benefits. Therefore, any regulation and any provision, any agreement makes sense only if those who have to carry out control and enforcement and work every day for our security give what is due, i.e. decent wages, decent working conditions, opportunities for progress and so on. So I think we should also draw attention to this. Similarly, migration risks have been identified here. In this regard, too, we can say that this is not going down, it is going to be a constant challenge with us. And I will talk about this for a longer time, and I would not go along with climate change, what is expected, what is expected to increase the migratory pressure. But we also see that we are now facing an unprecedented and extremely deep economic crisis in the epidemiological situation. We will not be able to estimate exactly the depth of this for long, but it will certainly bring with it the security policy problems that need to be taken care of. In this respect, I believe that there is a very broad consensus that the EU's external borders must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped and immigration policy must remain national. [[11.10]] I think it is, and I am very pleased, that it will no longer be subject to debate in the near future. At the same time, we will mention this in detail in the agenda item on climate change: if we are talking here about protecting the security of the Union, protecting the external borders of the Union, then, of course, it is important to protect so-called passive protection, i.e. the protection of external borders, but the most we can do is to take the causes of migration seriously, we are mapping them, and we are acting together in order to reduce them, and we are trying to reduce the migratory pressure itself. I would also like to respond to an important reference in terms of national policy. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm gave me a very, very good professional overview of the Schengen system and of the presentation itself, and I think it is very important that she mentioned national policy aspects and mentioned the European Citizens' Initiative to support national regions. Here, I'd like to make a bit of a joyful addition. Here we have heard some figures from the congresswoman on how the European citizens' initiative to support national regions is collecting signatures online, but thank God for that, it is much better. We have recently learned that the RMDSZ has signed 150,000 signatures on paper for this initiative, so there have been significantly more signatures from Transylvania than we have just heard in this speech. These signatures can be collected online separately, on a separate paper basis, so we can say that about 170,000 signatures have been collected from Transylvania. This is certainly an important figure, with the fact that yes, indeed, the deadline for this collection is about to expire. It should also be pointed out here that, at the beginning of the year, a very important parliamentary resolution proposal was presented to the Parliament in February, in which all parties, with the exception of one faction, expressed their support. This was a truly uplifting moment, when an almost complete national unit could indeed develop, and then this counter started, and the collection of signatures started, and exponentially the speed of it. This has, unfortunately, been broken by this epidemic, which has also made it difficult to collect these signatures for objective reasons. It was also a very important step on the part of the Szekler National Council to turn to the European Commission in order to take into account the fact that there are curfew restrictions for the whole European Union, which makes it impossible to collect signatures to extend the deadline for this collection. We consider this an important step, and we trust that the European Commission will make a rational decision on this. At the same time, I think that this system has a very serious significance for national policy. I also consider the proposals to be relevant in many respects from the Member's side. We respect the right to vote across the border, we do not question that; we want all Hungarians outside our borders to have the same access and opportunity to express their political opinion. Well, overall, I think that this is a proposal that we will support, this is a proposal of a legislative harmonisation nature. What is behind it, the political areas and the challenges that lie behind it, will be issues that will live with us in the coming decades and are a constant challenge, but our fundamental task is to approach them in a way that goes beyond party policy thinking, trying to pursue a consensus law at national level, taking the best of the nation's interests into account. At the level of the European Union, everyone should strive to ensure that the European Union also adapts its policy in such a way as to ensure that they comply with the provisions of Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This community itself is able to meet the challenges of the century to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one came forward for a two-minute speech. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone on the part of the individual factions would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2020-04-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to state here that the bill before us fulfils or proposes to fulfil an EU legislative harmonisation task, which is also in line with Hungary's national interests. It serves security, the security of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, but also the security of the citizens of the EU. Thank you for the speeches that support the bill, and we are in a joyful position to ensure the support of all groups. Thank you very much. Allow me to respond to some critical comments on the proposal, which were not related to the textual proposal itself, but today Hungarian parliamentary democracy is also demonstrated by the fact that anything can be talked about and we have witnessed. I would like to reply to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, is aware of the importance of Romania's accession to the Schengen system, but I would like to say that this has been prevented by Germany and the Netherlands and by several other Western European countries, and that this has not been achieved at present. We are aware of how this relates to the Hungarian requirements and to the interests of Hungary, Hungary has taken a clear position in this, but once again, it was not up to us, we would be happy to see this happen, because this would also mean a great deal of ease for Hungary's Hungarians living across the border, living in Transylvania. I would like to say that the members of the police of Hungary are taking part in continuous training and are familiar with the laws necessary for the performance of the service, the laws and regulations applicable to them. We can also say that public security has increased significantly in Hungary over the last ten years, and that there has been a decrease in the number of known crimes, since we have a strengthened police force, which has strengthened its professional skills and social respect. I would also like to thank the staff of the Hungarian police for their service to protect both internal security and borders. Thank you very much. As regards the comments of our colleague Gyula Molnár from MSZP who is sorry that he is not here, because I would have liked to have said so, but his fellow Member is here, and then, if you would like to forward it, in his contribution, he has given his party's task to the bill before Parliament, the agreement with Singapore before that, and now this bill fulfilling the task of harmonisation in the EU. He used various folktale turns to achieve this goal. I would like to say that this bill is a very important bill, and Hungary is handling it accordingly. We take our obligations arising from EU membership seriously, it is important to renew the Schengen system, this proposal is about it, and I hope that everyone will deal with it in accordance with its weight. After all, we are fulfilling our EU obligations and also serving national interests. So I ask everyone to support this, because the Schengen system is a very important element of Hungary's security. This system has worked, this system has brought results that we all know, and it is important that, in December 2021, when these new rules enter into force, we are prepared to be able to make available and apply these rules. To this end, it is important that Parliament adopts this bill. On the contribution of Mr László Keresztes, Member of the LMP, who, by the way, supported him - thank you for your support, he said, as a criticism, that perhaps we should have agreed better on the submission or submission of this bill. I would like to say, and confirm here, that on Thursday at 16.30 p.m. this week, we have convened a seven-party consultation at the Ministry of the Interior on important legislative proposals. I would also like to confirm here that, if there is a part of this bill that you would like to amend or consider important for an amendment to be adopted, then the Ministry of Interior, the Government, is open to examine and agree on substantive proposals. On Thursday at the Home Office, Congressman, there is a way. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a very important bill, it is very important that it is on Parliament's agenda now, because we can provide sufficient time to ensure that, in the event of the adoption that we trust and that all the conditions for it are given, Hungary is prepared to implement a new chapter of Schengen, because once again, this is in line with Hungary's national interests and is in line with the fulfilment of our EU obligations. I therefore call on the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2020-04-21-54	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the bill on the publication of the climate crisis and the proposal for a decision on non-deferring tasks arising from the climate crisis will follow. Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Sándor Burány, Dialogue; Timea Szabó, Dialogue; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue and Olivio Kocsis-Cake, Dialogue, Bill submitted by Members T/7021. I., Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Ákos Hadházy, independent; Bernadett Szél, independent; Ágnes Vadai, DK; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Timea Szabó, Dialogue and Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, MEPs' proposal for a decision H/7380. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The authors indicated that two speakers had presented the opening statement. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Timea Szabó, one of the rapporteurs of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-21-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You have put on the agenda, in an interesting, cynical way, in the midst of the coronal virus epidemic, the bill of dialogue on climate protection that was submitted last summer, just to prove that Parliament is also operating under the dictatorship law. Well, let's do it. But we don't have any illusions, there are three of us who will tell us what the government has done in relation to climate protection, and I think that in the end they will practically wipe out the proposal as a whole, while it is one of the most important laws for our future that Parliament has discussed over the past ten years. The proposal of the Dialogue is one of the few texts that are really about the future, if by future we do not mean whose garden the stadium can be built at the end and who can take the Lake Balaton home to himself. For ten years, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have been trying to seduce us with a story about what they represent the interests of the Hungarian people, while in reality we are on the verge of forcing them to invest in settlements that are seriously polluting and foreign. Let me just give you three concrete examples of the recent days of the national interest that Fidesz represents. In addition to Sümeg Prague in Veszprém County, the government office authorised an Austrian investor to open a basalt mine in a protected Natura 2000 area after the national park protested and two thirds of the settlement's population refused to open the mine. Another major issue: Gödön has been fighting the South Korean Samsung battery factory for years, which could have been built just a few meters from the family houses by the Asian multi. It releases flammable, explosive, harmful gases and vapours into the environment and, of course, noisy. But whose side does the Orbán government take when it has to choose between the Hungarian people and foreign investors? By declaring a priority investment, the government took away all the rights of participation of the population and the municipality, and now, by a night decree, the Prime Minister abolished the local tax on the factory by a stroke of a pen, so that those who smell, listen, tolerate the factory and the proximity of the dangerous plant would not even benefit indirectly from the profits of production. Is this the government of the Hungarian people that you are so proud of? ! Or let's look at the third case: with a late-night salad law, they take away most of the national park protected land. Since the change of regime, no Hungarian government has dared to touch the protected national park land, so clearly it is in the national interest that they should remain in the national parks. However, it is more important for the Orbán government than any national interest to find some more distributed state land to enrich faithful party members and Lőrincek Mészáros, István Tiborcz. It is so important that, even during the outbreak of the Crown Virus, Europe's decent governments are committed to saving human health, families and jobs. The bill of the Dialogue before us is about climate change, climate change, and so far I have talked about everything that is happening to us from the epidemic to the ever more serious drought in the spring to the single-man government of Viktor Orbán, is linked to climate crisis. It may be news to you, but in 1992, at the UN Climate Summit in Rio, scientists told us everything about the climate that has happened since then, word for word. They also talked about the resurgence of old pandemics, the emergence of new ones, the decline in soil fertility, the dessertisation, the increase in weather extremes, and the fact that changes and their consequences, such as new infectious diseases, are the greatest threat to older people. But we know that Fidesz favors the UN as an enemy, so let's quote a domestic organization on this. According to data published on the National Meteorological Service website, in a decade the northern and eastern parts of Hungary will be virtually unlivable in summer. In Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, Debrecen, Szeged, and several major cities, temperatures of around 40 degrees per year will occur for nearly two months. This is particularly dangerous for the elderly, children, patients. The OMSZ also says that if the global average temperature rises to 2 degrees, it will lead to a warming of 4 degrees in the Carpathian Basin, which could mean virtually total desertification. The fact that the Carpathian Basin is more protected against the effects of climate change is therefore an irresponsible deception by Viktor Orbán, unfortunately it is the other way around. It has been exactly 28 years since 1992, and of these 28 years, the Prime Minister was called Viktor Orbán in half of the time. Perhaps it is not unreasonable to ask him: what did Viktor Orbán do to combat climate change and prepare for the insurmountable effects? Are we more protected or, on the contrary, more defenseless now than, say, in 2010, when you last came to government? In 2010, the Hungarian state had significant land assets, partly land whose value is not the economic, but the conservation value is really important, and partly agricultural land, which was mostly used by family farms, small farms. Today, due to the robbery privatisation of the Orbán government, there is almost no land left in the hands of the state, which is why the lands of national parks need to be included in the new wave of land grabbing. Now, when there is a food crisis and it is becoming increasingly important that we use our existing resources to provide the Hungarian population, we may not need to analyse in more detail why it is a problem if two thirds of the former state land were transferred to Lőrinc Mészáros and other politically appointed family farmers. The new landowners of Fidesz have large-scale, mechanized, many chemicals used and few human work-based farming. These plant deserts, on the one hand, accelerate climate change and soil degradation and, on the other hand, increasingly produce industrial plants and stock market products sold on the external markets. The land policy in Orbán is also responsible for the increasing need for food imports every year and for the fact that domestic agriculture provides a livelihood for fewer and fewer people. That's what's happened to state lands, but what's been going on in state environmental and nature protection for the past ten years is no more appealing than what's happened in the past ten years. We don't have an independent Ministry of Environment anymore. All over the world, there are four countries that do not have a separate Ministry of Environment. Do you know what these are? Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Tanzania and Hungary. There is no independent Ministry of Environment in Hungary alone in Europe. Well, that's how important it is for Viktor Orbán to fight environmental protection and climate change! So much so that Audi can build a painting plant in protected pannon oaks, the Japanese and South Korean rubber factories can produce multiple quantities of waste contained in its environmental permit, Samsung's battery plant can move into the front room of the Gödians, and there is no one in the government who would say that this is against the interests of the Hungarian people. There is no more independent green ombudsman, and the Hungarian state, just like China in the 1980s and 1990s, has eliminated environmental protection as an obstacle to faster economic growth. This is how we, the Orbán government, prepare for climate change. [[11.30]] We could expect more drought and flooding, but you did not transform it into pre-water flood protection and planned water management, as promised by the 2010 government programme. We do not have a strategy for water-saving irrigation, but most of the state land that can be watered with conventional technologies has been given to the agricultural barons of Fidesz. So they're preparing for climate change in their own way. There is no protection for urban green areas, instead there is stoned, unflanted Kossuth Square, decimated Orczy Gardens, a number of rural loggings from Pécs to Lake Balaton, and, if it is up to you, there will also be Városliget transformed into a paradise quarter. The concrete increases the heat, but a single adult tree cools the environment with the efficiency of two air conditioners. The only thing missing from Kossuth Square is a cooling capacity equal to 500 artificial climates due to your fair heat, with the active involvement of the government office, violatingly, behind the cordons, taking advantage of the hours of dawn, killing the healthy trees of the former park, as you well knew that they were forbidden. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Óbuda!]] Ten years of EU infringement proceedings have been ongoing against the Hungarian government due to catastrophic air pollution. We pay for the government's carelessness with 15,000 deaths and 100,000 diseases a year. This is also closely linked to climate change, as those who use coal or household waste to heat, or use much more gas than is justified because of poorly insulated walls and windows, will also make the climate sick. But air pollution is also associated with the coronal virus. Researchers at the University of Luther Márton, Halle-Wittenberg, have clearly shown that the level of constant high air pollution is significantly higher in the event of death caused by the new coronal virus. Perhaps it is not by chance that the highest rate in the world in Hungary is 10 percent the death rate of the corona virus, while in the surrounding countries it is about 3-4 percent. For many years, the Orbán government has been working hard to prevent the European Union from providing a hundred billion-dollar non-refundable support for the energy efficiency modernisation of Hungarian homes, while banning the construction of wind power plants, imposing penalty taxes on solar panels and heat pumps, and trying to make us slaves of Russian gas and Russian atoms through fire and water for decades. From wind power plants, Fidesz passed a law that states that wind power plants cannot be built within a 16 km radius of a populated settlement. See a miracle, it turns out that Hungary does not have such a point. What a coincidence! Now they do not deny that they will practically fatten Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz again from the many overpriced solar power plants. This is the real climate policy of Fidesz, my fellow Members, and what they are trying to do now, in the last moments, is to cosmetise that by 2030 our energy production will be carbon neutral, Paks II. For this reason, and by 2050, we will achieve the EU's climate targets, nothing more than a transparent lie. There will be no new nuclear power plant here by 2030, since the Rosatom has not yet been able to come up with suitable plans. And you have just taken away, thank God, half of this year's budget support from the investment that has been on the ground since the years, which has made it completely pointless by the current crisis. Moreover, the atom is not carbon neutral at all, let alone life-threatening. The total life cycle greenhouse gas emissions are approaching gas plants. As far as 2050 is concerned, the current epidemic also indicates that climate change will not wait until 2050; action must be taken immediately. It's not just the crown virus we're dealing with. New viral diseases in Hungary in recent years could not have survived winter with us a decade or two ago. We must move now, not in 2050, and the appearance climate plans of the Orbán government will certainly not solve Hungary's problems. The Dialogue proposal prepares the country for the fight against climate change and protects people from the harsh effects of climate change, which is why it is necessary to support and implement the actions contained therein. Among other things, the climate crisis needs to be announced nationally. By 2025, coal and lignite plants must be closed, including the Matra coal power plant, which you have now purchased from Lőrinc Mészáros for people's money, for chandeliers. With full public and EU support, the energy renovation of all Hungarian households must be ensured, as almost half of the total Hungarian CO2 emissions come from this. The construction of wind power plants must be authorised immediately. The VAT on solar panels and heat pumps should be reduced from the current 27 per cent to the 5 per cent level. The school curriculum needs to include climate protection studies immediately. Fidesz's climate strategy predicts the suffering of millions. There will be a real change in this, my fellow Members, only if you support the proposal of the Dialogue before us. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the other rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-21-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In September last year, at the initiative of the LMP, the opposition groups jointly submitted to Parliament a proposal to discuss the climate crisis today. More than eight months have passed since then. Today's debate in Parliament is what we expect, at least as a green politician, for the government to finally admit that, despite winning the communication match, if it fails to act, it will put the country in a serious position because climate change does not take two thirds of Fidesz into account. The main reason for submitting the proposal for a decision was that we saw the world and the leaders of the EU recognise the danger and acceleration of climate change, its consequences for humanity, individual societies and our daily lives, and not least for the economy, and we also saw that they had begun to push for stricter climate targets and action instead of empty words. We experienced the opposite at home. Government politicians then denied even the fact of climate change, or at least questioned it. The Orbán government went against the EU's more stringent climate targets and vetoed it hard. At the same time, Hungary was very soon declared climate champion by the government, which is a huge lie. Ladies and gentlemen, A country cannot be a climate champion if it increases its CO2 emissions year after year instead of falling, and this has been the case since 2014. By 2013, we achieved a 40 percent CO2 reduction compared to 1990, and since then we have lost an 8 percent advantage. This means that by 2030, if the European Union remains at a 55-percent cut, it will be a huge challenge for the country. I will be very curious to see how this can be done. And a country can't be a climate champion even if it doesn't start counting and implementing adaptation tasks. And you can't be a climate champion even if you don't provide funding for the tasks from the budget, and you don't provide an appropriate institutional system for this, for example, the Green Climate and Sustainability High Ministry or the Climate Act, and you can't be a climate champion even if you let the state of forests, i.e. swallowing capacity, break down. In the proposal for a decision submitted, there are specific objectives that must already be pursued with more stringent objectives. Of course, we will be proposing amendments to these. We will therefore propose an amendment to reduce CO2 emissions for 2030 and to achieve climate neutrality by 2040 instead of 2050. However, the vast majority of our proposal for a decision is still current and even more current than it was at the beginning of September last year. These include adaptation tasks. We have experienced, for example, the extent to which our agriculture has been exposed to climate change, and the extent to which extreme weather conditions can lead to a large reduction in crop output, which, of course, could cause food prices to skyrocket. What's going to happen this year? We have already faced droughts in agriculture over the period of the year, but there have also been frost damage, and we do not yet know exactly how extreme weather conditions will affect us. [[11.40]] The resolution proposed that the government should establish the Climate Law by the end of last year. Of course, or not of course, but one thing is certain: he sabotaged it. However, most Member States of the European Union already have one, and the European Union has also started preparing the European Union's climate law. Of course, the Orbán government obviously knows that a law is much harder to sabotage than a climate change strategy. The point of the proposal for a decision, which concerns the timely knowledge of the Hungarian position to be taken at the UN Climate Summit in September last year, has become obsolete. And allow me to thank the opposition factions for jointly submitting this resolution proposal, but I note that it would have been really desirable if this had been born in seven-party cooperation. Dear Parliament, A lot has changed in the last eight months. One of the biggest surprises of the year was that Viktor Orbán presented an action plan on climate protection in his annual speech. It was surprising because so far, the Prime Minister has never said a word in his annual speeches about environmental and nature protection, about the government's environmental policy. It must also be said this time that the climate action plan presented by the Prime Minister is unfortunately not enough to paint green. Most of all, he points out that the Fidesz government has only destroyed environmental and nature protection over the past ten years, and he has no idea what action would have to be taken if he were serious about climate protection, environmental and nature protection. This is supported by the fact that the notified measures are extremely weak in terms of climate protection. Consider, for example, that the elimination of illegal landfills does not affect our greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, we have the right to ask what the government has done so far. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] After all, according to the legislation, illegal litterers should have been dealt with before, not after ten years of government. The release of disposable plastics was also on the agenda when, despite the active protest of the Hungarian government, this became a joint decision of Europe. But the government hasn't taken any practical steps since then. The Prime Minister has also promised to regulate multi-company companies, while billions have been invested in their support and tax incentives have increased their already large competitive advantage for these biggest environmental users rather than supporting the greening and strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises. The construction of six times the solar power plant capacity is a nice green painting of our expensive, dangerous and polluting Paks energy mix, because it is not enough. Not to mention that solar panels should not be installed with greenfield investments, using valuable land, but on rooftops. The action plan also lacks support for wind power plants. We have also repeatedly pointed out that planting a tree is a noble matter, it is very important, but one million trees are not yet a forest, not an ecosystem, and so it does not provide a service that could mitigate the dangers facing us. In addition, we have the right to ask why they are destroying trees, leaving trees on many hectares in some places, and why they are not tending to, properly increasing our existing forests and green surfaces. Overall, this climate protection action plan is extremely limited. It clearly proves that the government wants to win the climate change case in a way that communicates. The government is still trying to be a stowaway in international efforts and thus in the European Union's climate protection programme. We are still saying that by 2030 Hungary and the Hungarian government will want only 40 percent CO2 reduction, but we will keep our hands on it. We can't even see a trace of sectoral programmes related to climate adaptation tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly explain why we who have submitted this decision do not consider it unjustified to declare the climate crisis. We know that's a strong word, but it's justified. Well, it's not because climate change is already directly demanding the lives of the masses of people, or because we've come to the point that, due to extreme weather, we can't produce food because the rivers have dried up, the earth has become barren, and the species on Earth have been decimated. It's an emergency because we're drifting in this direction faster and faster. This has to be taken into account because the problem is getting worse and there are no adequate means to deal with it. There is a danger because the climate is a fundamental ecological condition for life on earth, and if the climate changes, everyone is forced to adapt. And a lot of people aren't gonna make it. There is a danger, because warming may even increase the carbon stock of forests for some time, but in time annual emissions from ever-increasing forests may reach up to 40-55 percent of the current total emissions. And there is an emergency, because climate change is intertwined with all other problems. The emergence of an old-new virus, desertification, forest fires, droughts and floods, and everything that is related to the climate, has a fundamental impact on people's local prosperity and also contributes greatly to the growth of migration. Dear House, The emergence and rapid spread of the coronal virus epidemic, the epidemic health effects, the exponential increase in the number of infected people in the world and the number of large deaths have, of course, distracted us from the issues of climate change and the wider context. But more and more people are pointing out that the global epidemic is linked to our way of life, to unsustainable production and consumption practices, by destroying our natural environment at a terrible rate, the earth's environment has been disastrously polluted. Pope Francis also said that a coronal virus epidemic is one of nature's responses to ignoring the ecological crisis. We have to admit that the various crises are linked, they have common roots, and if we do not change them, we are faced with unpredictable epidemics and crises. Both the coronal virus epidemic and the climate crisis must be taken seriously. It is time for real action. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today there will be a substantive debate and dialogue to combat and adapt to climate change. I hope the government doesn't watch who says it, but what they say. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-21-58	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-04-21-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There has been a lot of talk here about the proposals. Allow me, in particular, to talk about the proposals submitted before the Honourable Parliament, because it is a serious issue. It's worth talking seriously about. For the government, Honourable Parliament, it is important to protect the environment and fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. Our Fundamental Law also includes the idea that we must protect the natural values of the Carpathian Basin, and that we also have responsibility for our offspring, so we protect the living conditions of the generations after us by using our natural resources carefully. [[11.50]] In contrast to climate change, action can be taken, not by words, not by laws and decisions, but primarily by action, and the Hungarian government does. We are talking about the protection of the created world, our environmental heritage, our common future. The government is acting with that in mind, working to make our country the winner of the changed circumstances. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal and the proposal for a decision set out the directions for the challenges posed by climate change and the responses to it. We agree with the honourable opposition representatives that climate change is one of the greatest threats of our time, and therefore we need effective action from all the countries on Earth. The Hungarian government has already been aware of this issue, and in the future it will put even more emphasis on the necessary measures, and we are open to, and always have been, discussing, constructive proposals. Dear Parliament, At the same time, climate change is more important than using it for political action, because the future of our children is at stake. In the framework of the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015, the Parties agreed that each country will participate in the fight against global climate change in the light of different national circumstances, following the principles of shared but differentiated responsibility and skills. The aim of the agreement is to keep the global average temperature rise at well below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the average pre-industrial temperature, but to ensure that the temperature increase does not exceed 1,5 degrees Celsius. Hungary is committed to meeting the objectives of the Agreement both as a Party to the Paris Agreement and as a Member State of the European Union. The European Union and its Member States, including Hungary, have been global leaders and leaders in the fight against climate change. [[A voice from the opposition line: Yeah!]] By 2050, the European Union intends to become the first climate neutral continent, which is supported by Hungary, and this is the objective it has set in the draft national strategy for clean development. Achieving this goal is difficult, but not impossible: it requires complete and fundamental economic transformation, comprehensive strategic and policy planning and substantial financial resources. But in all cases, we must bear in mind four aspects. Firstly, climate-neutral economic costs must be paid to climate-destructors, in particular to large polluting countries and large companies. Secondly, this policy must be implemented in such a way that the prices of energy and food paid by families do not increase. The third is not to take money from poorer countries, so it is not acceptable for the European Union to transfer funds from cohesion funds to climate protection in its next budget. The fourth is that it must be said openly and we must finally agree on this issue, that without nuclear power, a climate-neutral economy cannot be built. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Go, Moscow!]] The European Parliament, the European Council and the International Energy Agency also have a document that makes this clear. The government has already taken several important steps to move towards clean economic development: it has adopted strategies, action plans and plans for further action. Dear Parliament, Hungary decides to contribute to international and European Union goals following a realistic and responsible policy in the interests of Hungarian people. Despite the fact that our country is responsible for only 0.1 percent of the world's total emissions, it has been committed to this area since the start of international climate negotiations, and it is also an outstanding achievement in the fight against climate change. Today, in Hungary, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than climate and environmental protection in Germany. Of the Member States of the European Union, Hungary is at the forefront of achieving the emissions reduction targets undertaken, and by 2030 it will be one of the few Member States who will not only be able to meet the national targets for emissions from sectors outside the emission trading system, namely transport, building energy, waste management and agriculture, but also expected to meet them too. Here I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that there are currently several Member States of the Union demanding higher 2030 targets, which, compared to 1990, would not only have reduced their emissions by 2017, but also increased their emissions, or are at a very low level compared to 1990 in these countries. On the other hand, our country has voluntarily taken on a very ambitious target for itself in its national strategies, which the government is effectively promoting through its actions and development. In the draft proposal, you mention literally climate-killing interests in the public administration, although the reality is that both government measures and government performance figures show very different trends in Hungary, which is the exact opposite of what they claim. But where are we now with regard to domestic greenhouse gas emissions? Dear Parliament, Domestic gross greenhouse gas emissions were 33 percent lower than 1990 levels in 2018. This also means that greenhouse gas emissions per unit of economic output are continuously decreasing. Our annual greenhouse gas emissions per capita are 6.6 tonnes, which is only the average EU value of 8.8 tonnes of 75 percent, which can be considered to be low even in relation to countries of similar size and the sixth best at EU level. Let's be proud of that together. Since 2010, 22 percent! The greenhouse gas impact intensity of Hungarian economic performance has improved, i.e. our emissions from the production of unit GDP. The favourable process is confirmed by the 2018 emissions data: while GDP growth was 5.1 percent, emissions decreased by 0.7 percent. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Therefore, Hungary is indeed a climate champion, contrary to all these claims. Our strategic objective is to further strengthen this trend, i.e. to further reduce the energy and greenhouse gas emission intensity of our national income production while maintaining quality economic growth. This is precisely indicated by the primary statement of the government's climate policy that economic development and climate protection are mutually reinforcing objectives; they are not opposed to each other, but are reinforcing one another. This conviction is therefore strongly opposed to the opposition parties' proposals for climate protection, which set the goals of economic development and climate protection against each other, as we have heard in some of the expeditions. Hungary's decarbonisation objectives for 2050 are set out in the draft national clear development strategy. To achieve climate neutrality by 2050, Hungary's greenhouse gas emissions are expected to be reduced by 95 percent compared to 1990. [[12.00]] At the same time, we must also be prepared to use technologies that are not yet known in order to achieve the overall emissions reduction target of 95 per cent. Dear Parliament, Hungary is committed to taking decisive action against climate change. It was also a strong expression of this when the Parliament adopted the second national climate change strategy of Hungary on 30 October 2018. The strategy for the period between 2018 and 2030, which provides an outlook for the period up to 2050, includes an assessment of the expected impacts of climate change in Hungary, its natural and socio-economic consequences, and the climatic vulnerability of ecosystems and sectors, based on the three pillars of mitigation, adaptation and approach formation. The vote on this also shows what the opposition's true attitude towards climate change is, because the opposition did not vote in favour of this motion. Nor did they take part in the debate that you initiated on this subject. It's progressing that you're here for today's debate. Dear Parliament, On 8 January 2020, the Government adopted several key strategic documents. The first Climate Action Plan contributes to achieving the objectives set out in the aforementioned second National Climate Change Strategy by defining concrete measures. The draft national clear development strategy will also contribute to the commitments set out in the Paris Agreement and to the EU climate neutrality in 2050 voted in favour of the European Council on 13 December 2019 and supported by Hungary. In order to further develop the strategy, further calculations supported by climate modelling will be carried out this year. The report on the Carpathian Basin provides information on the effects of climate change on the Carpathian Basin, including for each sector, as well as on the main possible directions for action. The most important objective of the new national energy strategy is to strengthen energy sovereignty and energy security, to maintain the results of the reduction in electricity and to decarbonise energy production, which can only be achieved through the use of nuclear power. For countries poor in conventional energy sources, such as our country, energy sovereignty is a welfare, economic and national security issue. It is in Hungary's clear interest to reduce its demand for energy imports while at the same time ensuring a wider connection to regional electricity and gas networks, which guarantees security of supply and effective competition in imports. These documents are consistent not only with each other, but also with EU and international goals. Dear Parliament, In addition to these strategies, Prime Minister announced the climate and nature conservation action plan in his annual speech on 16 February 2020, including concrete measures. We must act for the future of our children, because climate change and its extreme weather phenomena have unfortunately become clear everywhere in the world. Allow me to recall the priority actions of the action plan. We will begin the elimination of illegal landfills on 1 July. At the end of 2019, the government decided to set up a waste management authority covering all elements of the waste management chain. The primary task of this is to support the management of waste as a value, to properly collect, select, sell and recycle waste. Part of this new type of approach is also to eliminate illegal waste, landfills, and punish those who do not place it according to the rules. We are therefore also reviewing the existing legislation in order to prevent illegal landfills and to establish an effective system of sanctions. We ban the sale of disposable plastics and allow for the redemption of glass and plastic bottles and metal boxes. As part of this, we will launch an awareness-raising campaign, review the legislative environment, prepare research, innovation, incentives and support schemes for substitute products. We will protect our rivers from waste coming from abroad. Clean water is our national treasure, we value and protect the water supply of the Carpathian Basin. Furthermore, in adapting to climate change, we pay particular attention to keeping water in Hungary and protecting our waters. We expect multinational companies to use environmentally friendly technologies. We support the renewable energy production of small and medium-sized enterprises by HUF 32 billion. With the investment supported, energy consumption and emissions are reduced, Hungary's energy independence is strengthened. And yes, we will transform the Mátra Power Plant into a green one, which will significantly reduce the country's greenhouse gas emissions. The Mátra Power Plant should not be closed, but its green vision must be realised, with which the government will start the implementation of the most important Hungarian climate protection and priority regional development project of the next decade, thus protecting the Hungarian people's workplace. And yes, it is also true that what has been said here before, after every newborn, we plant ten trees. This means one million trees a year, so by 2030, the country's forest-covered area will grow to 27 percent. Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to ensure that the majority of Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are not technologies that trigger or exclude each other, as many try to demonstrate, but solutions that support one another, and both can be seen as a clean energy source. By 2030, with the combined use of solar and nuclear power, 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production could be carbon-free. Thus, the government intends to increase the share of carbon-neutral domestic electricity generation from the current 60% to 90% by 2030. Carbon-neutral energy production without nuclear power is unthinkable and inconceivable, since almost half of Hungary's electricity generation is produced by carbon-neutral nuclear energy. With the Paks II investment, this ratio can be maintained in the long term. In addition to nuclear power generation, the capacity of solar power plants will be multiplied over the next ten years. In the meantime, we protect the results of the reduction and provide cheap, innovative energy for Hungarian families. We help, we provide real help to keep households' electricity bills at a constant low level. By 2030, at least one million smart meters will be installed to regulate electricity consumption. In the utility model we develop new customer offers based on smart home devices. We will support the emergence and use of cheap electric cars. The use of zero-emission electric vehicles is one of the most important means of curbing emissions. Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to make electric cars available as widely as possible in Hungary, so that Hungarian families can access them as easily and cheaply as possible. [[12.10]] The aim is to increase the share of electric cars to 6 per cent and more than 2 per cent in new vehicle purchases to 13 per cent. We also support the purchase of low- and zero-emission vehicles for public transport, starting and implementing the "Green Bus" programme. From 2022, only electric buses can be installed in settlements with a population of more than 25 thousand people. Thanks to these measures, every second bus will be environmentally friendly in the local public transport of large cities within 10 years. The government has allocated a total of HUF 36 billion between 2020 and 2029. In addition, the government supports an increase in public transport rates and the development of fixed-track suburban transport. We will introduce the Green Government Bond, the resources of which will be used exclusively to finance green affairs. As can be seen from these measures, Hungary currently has a stable legislative and strategic framework to ensure that these objectives are achieved, and we will take the decisive steps that are justified and necessary to meet these objectives. Dear Parliament, Hungary is in the 21 countries in the world that have reduced its emissions by increasing its GDP since 2000. On the other hand, six Member States, claiming to be climate-friendly, have been unable to show a ton of emission reductions since 1990: Austria, Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Cyprus, Malta. So, globally, Hungary is among the first 21 countries, Honourable Parliament, which has been able to increase its GDP since 2000, while reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. Let us be proud of this together, let us be proud of the country's ability to achieve such performance. I can also assure you that the government is moving along the agreed long, medium- and short-term strategies and action plans towards achieving the 2050 climate neutrality target. We are determined to protect the created world and our natural heritage, which we Hungarians have developed together here in this country. This is our joint task, for our children and grandchildren, because we must preserve Hungary and the Carpathian Basin. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I warmly welcome my fellow Members. Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman, you have the floor. You have a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-04-21-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, There has been a change in Earth history in these decades, there has been this in the history of the earth, and I have had the opportunity to meet and face studies that my colleagues have carried out within the Hungarian Institute of Geology and Geophysical Institute, which is currently carrying out basic research and applied research in an integrated form, as well as stockpiling tasks with our natural resources in a single framework, which provides a place for the National Adaptation Centre, which was established in 2012 with the aim of carrying out research tasks related to climate change and other global processes in order to help institutions performing governmental tasks at central and local levels, assist economic operators and assist citizens in making strategic decisions at large, national, regional or even private level that can subsequently be transformed into actions so as to adapt at least to this earth-scale change at a basic level. Many say that this change is solely due to human activity. We need to know that there is a difference here only on the scale between previous climate changes and current climate change. But this is very important in view of the human population and human society, as it has taken tens of thousands of years before in order to achieve an average temperature increase of 2-3-4 degrees in the way nature operates. And this long period of time provided the opportunity for the then living world, the different species, to adapt more or less to the changed circumstances and to remain or die globally due to their adaptability. We also say this in our professional environment that the less adaptable fossil reserves that have been used up in the past 150-200 years by the post-industrial social and economic framework have contributed significantly to the negative changes that we are currently not only witnessing but suffering. So we are faced with a natural process that we, the human population, have contributed to with our own behaviour, our almost complete disruption from the natural environment. Without human activity, such climate change and warming would not have been possible, would not have happened. This is a very important foundation that we all need to see, and it is also an essential basis for putting people in different disciplines and different faith worlds, whether they are researchers, physicists or even biologists, ecologists, earth historians on a single platform, that climate change is a natural process that has been greatly accelerated by human activity. We need to see that not all species have been able to adapt in previous geological periods, even if it has been ten thousand years. Now, it seems that we have decades to adapt, and I am not saying to reverse this trend, but at least to slow down the scale of this earth-scale change in order to return to the stage of normal, qualitative and fundamental natural, social and economic integration, resulting from a change in lifestyle over generations. The natural system, the natural resources system itself, forms a unified whole, we inhabit and control a fraction of it, at least that is what we humans, the community of people believe, but we are only a subsystem of this natural resources system, and within this subsystem only a subsystem is the economy that basically determines the conditions of existence, thinking and the evolution of its values for all of us. The economy should essentially serve to meet realistic human needs. What we see today is that it's not the economy for man, it's the man for the economy. As my friend András Lányi used to say, our biggest problem is that we have confused the quantity with quality. So we are thinking only in terms of quantitative growth, development is if something grows, grows, gets bigger, and we do not think it is worth it if something gets more meaningful, becomes more beautiful, becomes more aesthetic, or is much stronger from the moral side, in terms of human trust, cooperation and solidarity, much more useful than economic growth itself. [[12.20]] This is very important, because this shows that in the coming years and decades, effective action can only be taken to slow down climate change and adapt to negative impacts if we can change this framework. If we had to record the three things that have changed significantly over the past 80 to 100 years, the fact that science has become less knowledge is that our capacity to act has been limited to technology services. So if we don't have technology, then we're dead and the world is falling apart. Just think, if there's a permanent blackout in a home, how our lives change, or if the battery dies in our phones or laptops, we're desperate, and we think that the end of the world has come and we're completely paralyzed. So we are showing a total vulnerability to technologies, thus building up our lives, our society and our economy, which is equivalent to ripping ourselves out of our natural environment and knowledge, that unified, holistic knowledge has become a knowledge, and we add that our thinking of a welfare society is equivalent to wasteful and controlled compulsive consumption, so once again, I am talking about wasteful and controlled compulsive consumption, because there has never been a time in the history of mankind that would have caused such a concentration of armed, information and financial power, and which would have held the electronic consciousness industry to this extent, which through the consciousness industry is the primary intention of maintaining indiscretion, the ignorance of large masses. This is another marginal condition that is worth considering when there will be a change and who is interested in it. You can point it up wherever it is. For example, as long as the European Union's supreme decision-making bodies, thinking in this framework, make up their various proposals for climate change or even their binding directives, which need to be transposed into national case-law, there will be no substantive change, because their scope of manoeuvre will be significantly limited by this armed, informational, financial power concentration I have referred to and the electronic consciousness industry that is based on it or in its hands. If there's any change, it'll be an undetected change. All such significant changes take place undetected, and unobservation starts from the conspicuities, internal constraints, from individuals, communities that are able to distinguish knowledge and knowledge, and are able to build a real welfare society and community with real capacity based on real knowledge. There are examples of this in Hungary. There are small communities, small settlements that are self-sufficient, organizing their own lives. At times, moving on the boundaries of law and lawlessness, sitting on the boards, they lay their feet to ensure the real well-being of those living there, not only through quantitative growth, but also through qualitative change, qualitative improvement, thus a positive change in trust, understanding, solidarity, mutual acceptance of local community and national minimums. It is extremely important to record this, too, so that solidarity and national solidarity, not only in the personal but also in the local community, in the network cooperation between the larger community settlements, can also be found on fundamental issues. If you have that, you can start the change, as a matter of fact. They can also be called local heroes, prophets. The prophets aren't here, we're not the ones talking here, and we want to talk about climate change and emergency louder than each other, but we have these good people on the spot. Their good practice must be monitored, and these good practices are the ones that find cooperation in terms of hearts and everyday actions. So shaping the approach through good practices is a very important thing. I'm saying all this because I've had the opportunity in the last 20 years to do a number of these research planning tasks. The rural village research movement has been operating under our umbrella for the past two decades. A great deal of good practice has been achieved in this area, whether in the field of local food supply, water security or demographic stabilisation, critical infrastructure, local infrastructure testing and upgrading. If these can be done small, they can be done big. We were young when, in the first half of the 2000s, we had the opportunity to work with the future research institute of the Bundeswehr, and we saw the scenarios that were not only visualised, but which were on paper, they considered what changes would be made to climate change, geopolitical conditions transformed by climate change, migratory pressures, the combination of cultural diversity, the challenges that Europe and Germany will face. That's when my colleagues and I decided to have a life, a death, let's try to put together this evaluation framework. Within the National Adaptation Centre in the Geological Institute, this national adaptation spatial information system has become a good opportunity for this to be fully capable of modelling both food security, water security, demographic stabilisation and critical infrastructure testing through the necessary interventions. These proposals must be made available to both the government and the municipalities, and this is how they work. I therefore always propose to my fellow Members, who are dealing with climate issues, climate policy and its adaptation aspect, to register on the platform of the national adaptation spatial information system, because they have access to information, research materials, background information needed to prepare strategic action plans that can positively influence not only their own life but also their environment. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a change in Earth history, it is not a simple emergency, and we therefore need to put this issue into a larger context and framework. So we should not be talking about declaring the climate crisis, but about how to convert the national climate change strategy adopted by Parliament into small change, how to put action plans behind it, and how to associate concrete funding programmes behind action plans, so that the financial resources available to us can be best implemented by municipalities and economic operators. [[12.30]] They have missed such steps in the speaker's speech, so I would like to highlight a few things, such as the fact that in recent years nearly 6500 hectares have been planted. The government's goal, which is also the way forward in this period, is to increase the size of forest areas from 21% to 27%. From 2010 to July 2019, 82 new protected sites of national importance have been established in more than 4 000 hectares. Between 2010 and 2018 the government has already spent more than HUF 120 billion on environmental remediation. The debate on environmental law is about to begin in this House today, where the conditions for more effective government intervention on the revitalization of brownfield areas will also be discussed. I commend you to your attention, as well as to the fact that, in agreement with the Air Task Force, there is also a proposal which would provide for a complete ban on green waste and avar burning, which is one of the largest air pollutants and which significantly worsens the development of adverse climate change conditions, thus making them worse. Mr Secretary of State said that Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where economic performance has increased since 1990 and jobs have been created with both CO2 emissions and energy consumption falling. It's an important thing. I'd like to talk about the size of irrigated areas for two more thoughts. From 87 000 hectares to 2022, in two years' time, the government will increase the volume of irrigable agricultural land to 200,000 hectares and to 400 000 hectares by 2030. If we are talking about food sovereignty and food security, then this is a fundamentally necessary government step that has long been at the level of action rather than the strategy. Looking at the bill you have tabled, I would also like to make some comments on this. Our group continues to take the view that national climate policy must be in line with our international and EU commitments for climate protection. We also need to adapt and take into account the extent to which those who have contributed to the current global change at the nation state level, the resources and economic power they have, and, taking into account all of this, to determine joint efforts. So only to the extent that we have the capacity to bear the burden, and to the extent that we have contributed to the changes, let us be involved in dealing with the problem. This is also a fundamental national interest. So, as a small issuer, even if we push ourselves more than international commitments, the positive global changes will not start, will not accelerate, but our country, our society, and our economy, which should serve the real needs, will suffer damage in this international cooperation. We consider it important to provide valid answers for the whole Carpathian Basin. This is part of the national minimum. I would not like to name a fellow Member here as a positive example, whose speeches we have heard yesterday and are likely to hear today, and we have heard him so far, who makes critical comments on government actions without leaving the national minimum framework and considers it acceptable. It is very important that we are able to engage in a normal dialogue here, so that Members with such posture are involved in discussing these issues. We consider it important to meet all the challenges facing us in terms of the domestic environment, society and economy. So the natural subsystem, including the human and social subsystem, and the economic subsystem of it, must also be taken into account, because wherever we enter the system, the potmeter is moved wherever we move, at that moment everything moves, but not at the same rate that everything moves within the subsystems as we move on the small indicator of a social or economic subsystem or consumption. It is important to take account of the combined use of carbon-neutral nuclear energy and photovoltaic energy production in determining the energy mix. We consider it important that Hungary reduces greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 percent by 2030 compared to 1990. We consider it important that, after 2030, the final use of energy will only provide an increase in growth above 2005 levels from carbon neutral sources, i.e. basically nuclear energy and renewable energy sources. The country achieves at least a 21 per cent share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2030 and achieves full climate neutrality by 2050, i.e. the remaining domestic emissions of greenhouse gases and their absorption will be balanced by 2050. We recommend that the government be authorised to develop rules for the closure of lignite and coal plants in Hungary, with regard to labour market and social aspects. This is also the potmeter: if we intervene for a higher community goal, local interests may be significantly damaged, local interests may be damaged to such a extent that their daily livelihoods are negatively affected. Therefore, in this case, the operation of a major greenhouse gas emission sector should be pursued in order to achieve a higher objective in such a way as to ensure the daily livelihood and social well-being of the local population at the basic level. The government should be authorised for gross final energy consumption in order to achieve at least a 21 per cent share of renewable energy by 2030. The government should also be empowered to make the public and local Community consumers active energy producers. They should therefore be present not only as consumers in the supply network, but also as active energy producers, so that the distribution of production divided in production at local level, i.e. local supply systems, should be established and followed by legislation. The government should also be empowered to develop an energy efficiency obligation system for energy suppliers. This, too, strengthens the balance between the resource and duty-sharing systems, helping to increase energy efficiency. Therefore, not only from the public side, but also from the producer side and from the service side. The government should also be authorised to develop a support programme for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements in domestic enterprises. That's another important step. The government should also be empowered to develop changes to related public policy regulations, transport, energy, waste management policy, water, agriculture and forestry policy, land use, land and local development policy, taking into account sustainability aspects, so that not only quantitative but also qualitative changes can occur in the conditions of existence. The government should also be empowered to develop support programmes to promote technological solutions to climate protection. So there is no need to be alarmed by technology, but it should not be dominated only by emerging innovations, technological achievements and economic interests, but we can consciously use it to achieve our common goals. Let us not suffer technological change, but be conscious actors. [[12.40]] The government should also be authorised to issue green government bonds to create the source of developments financed from the climate protection budget and to establish a green investment system that can help achieve all these objectives, which also serve to reduce emissions and, on the other hand, to successfully adapt to changing circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr. President. If we can hold the debate in a similar manner, we can talk about substantive issues, we can discuss substantive proposals, then I think that in the coming weeks we can also have a climate bill in Hungary, a law that strengthens the climate strategy, which will help, guide the government, and even impose an obligation on the government to provide assistance in the form of action plans and funding programmes for interventions along the national policy goals set out in the sectoral strategy in order to understand, understand, evaluate properly, change in our approach and change in our day-to-day actions, in which the efforts of local communities and many small individual changes can be combined, and can start a real change. In this case, it is easier to adapt to changing natural conditions in such a way that the two-faced international political and economic expectations that we face do not become or are not lost there. This is an important thing, because the kind of concentration I was talking about, that armed, financial and information concentration does not want local communities, either at national or local level, to create a room for manoeuvre that would provide them with their own national character and everyday life. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-04-21-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Nunkovics. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I promise I will try not to be as long as my fellow Member, János Bencsik, although I am very pleased with his speech, because we have heard forward-looking thoughts here in the last half hour...
u2020-04-21-64	My apologies, Congressman, but I would like to say one thing: you too have a 30-minute timeframe. [[Tibor Nunkovics: Obviously...]] So you're free to express your thoughts. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-65	Thank you very much for reminding me of that, Mr President. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] I am pleased, however, that this proposal has come before this House and that we can debate it. I agree with my fellow Member, János Bencsik, that it would indeed be good to have this debate in a proper manner and, finally, to make a joint decision, it does not matter now that this is an opposition motion which, we know, the parties of government do not like very much, but we hope that they will be able to accept this time. I think we will be able to accept their suggestions. I'd like to approach the subject from two sides. One is the government's attitude. Excuse me, my fellow Member, I will probably spoil the mood of my fellow Member, János Bencsik, but it is obvious that it has been nicely listed here what has been done on the altar of environmental protection and on the altar of climate protection in the last ten years, but the institutional system of this is still broken. Or we can see that the oligarchs associated with you have advanced over the past two years, see Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz, who is now in the business of solar parks, so you have such progress that we cannot go without saying a word. My problem with your climate policy proposal or package is that this could have been done much sooner. As a matter of fact, I say that it is almost completely all right, but let us see that these proposals, which are contained in it, have been submitted in the past, say, five to six or eight years by the opposition representatives, and then with these profound ideas, which you have just said, Mr János Bencsik, we have not been able to meet here between the walls of Parliament, which I am very sorry for, because then we could probably be facing a package of proposals that everyone has adopted, and, for example, this debate could not have happened, because there would have been steps in which I think we all agree and all of us support it. On the other hand, the coronal virus epidemic is changing a lot, and I think that we need to take into account climate change when we are talking about climate change, the effects of the coronal virus epidemic, why this epidemic has gotten worse and why it has become global. Many people die every day in this epidemic, and we cannot do so because of their memory that we do not deal with the context of the epidemic, mankind, the management and life form of humanity, and climate change, because climate change and the epidemic, if not directly but indirectly, are interrelated phenomena. What we can now see as the impact of the epidemic is that greenhouse gas emissions have decreased, air traffic has decreased, which is a good thing in terms of climate protection, but as I said, there is another side of the epidemic that people are dying here and people are going to hospitals. So we need to prepare ourselves and set long-term goals that, once the epidemic is over and I think that there is agreement in the Hungarian journalistic profession, because, for example, I recently read an article about it in the Democratic Republic, we will have to change the human attitude, the human way of life, so that after the epidemic, after we have managed to overcome it, we do not go back even more brutally to the usual events that have taken place in our lives today, which, by the way, are causing climate change, and that there should not be even more CO2 emissions. Moreover, several journals warn that in 2008, when there was also an economic crisis, greenhouse gas emissions also dropped, which has taken a brutal rate from 2010 onwards, and we may be glad that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen, but if the epidemic goes away and the economic crisis is over, the economic crisis caused by the epidemic will certainly be faced with the fact that if we really do not change our attitude, that the fight against the climate crisis will become even more brutal, it will have to absorb even more forces. That is why I think it is important that Hungary does lead the way... and this is entirely the same as the government's policy, because you say that jobs must be kept, and even new ones must be created. Then why don't we create it in the green sector, for example? For example, in the area of renewable energy sources, we have the opportunity to create jobs, and we can lead by doing so not only in Europe but also globally, because we have room for manoeuvre on this issue. And as I understand it, we also have a financial margin on the subject, because it is no coincidence that the Mátra Power was bought by the state for 17 billion forints, by the way, that Mátra Power and here also a little criticism, if you allow the government, which Lőrinc Mészáros, Prime Minister's best friend, bought for 6 billion forints. Now, for two years, the Hungarian state bought a bled power plant, a fossil power plant, from which, by the way, 11 billion forints of dividends were paid to themselves, and in addition, they received 7 billion forints of state aid for development and investments over the years, which were partly done. [[12.50]] This power plant must be taken over by the Hungarian state and will consume hundreds of billions of forints in order to be transformed in the first place, with which I fully agree, so this power plant must obviously be modernised, changed, but in addition, the financial difficulties will have to be paid by the Hungarian taxpayers. So I guess this wouldn't be the way. This would not be the way to fill the pockets of Lőrinc Mészáros, while fighting climate change for you... Recently, we have heard that the opposition is making a climate crisis. Now, obviously, you're measuring, you see, you'd be eroding your own camp if you didn't talk about it, so you turned. I'm sorry, I'm glad, I'm glad that this green turn of events has taken place in Fidesz, but I just want the funds for the green turn, the taxpayers' money, not to enrich an economic lunar yard and not some people's wallets, but to go to the right place and to benefit the Hungarian people, the Hungarian households. I therefore ask you, and obviously there will be a lot of dialogue during this debate, so that when you consider this proposal, you make amendments that will certainly be acceptable to us, and let us really be lenient to each other for what my fellow Member, János Bencsik, said, that after the epidemic and the economic crisis are over, we can then introduce a new life and a new concept in Hungary. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Today we started a debate on a bill and a proposal for a resolution, which was a prelude to discussion, and in fact could have had a good history of the debate on climate change on 12 December 2018. At the time, the other occupations of those who submitted the resolution proposal and the bill kept them away from the debate day, then this important issue, which is important for mankind, was not of such importance as to participate in this debate. If they had been here, they would have heard that there was consensus among the participating Members that the root cause of atmospheric warming experienced in mankind's modern age was essentially due to human activity. We have made it clear that there are also economic, technological, social and political aspects of the complex analysis resulting from climate change that need to be adapted and that a strategy that can succeed in halting climate change and maximising warming does not, at least, impair the quality of human existence. To what the quality of human existence will be like in the future, what expectations, what life situations mankind will meet, let me not differ, because I am not a visionary for the future. However, it is certain that this complex task is a very serious challenge for us, and on this day I quoted the encyclical of Pope Ferenc Laudato si, in which he described the challenge facing today and the objective existence of his responsibility. The rate of consumption, waste and environmental damage exceeded the planet's potential, so that the current way of life, as it is not sustainable, can lead only to disasters, as it has actually been happening in individual regions. Easing the effects of the current imbalance depends on what we are doing now, especially when we take into account the responsibility that those who will have to bear the most serious consequences will have to bear. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So for mankind, it is time for action, a time for joint action, considering the direction of social policy change, analysing global challenges. I could compare the current situation to an emergency department, and it is also appropriate to do so when we need to look for technological responses to emerging climate change indicators, warming, pollution of the atmosphere, but we cannot avoid or limit ourselves to looking for technological questions, but, as I have just said, we must also pay attention to the development of the quality of human existence. Dear House, As I have just said, on 12 December 2018 a substantive debate could have been held on these serious issues and approaches, but we did not have the opportunity to do so. We were here at the time, and we are here now, and we are taking part in the debate on the proposals. What could have happened between December 12, 2018 and the submission of the two proposals, between 1 August and 5 September 2019, what changed during this period? We could also say that it is nothing special, because, under the auspices of the United Nations, the Paris Agreement, as a result of common thinking, exists in 2015, and the associated, accepting states make sufficient efforts, in most cases, to make the achievement of its objectives a reality. I'd just like to give you a little bit of data to prove that. According to a study by the National Energy Agency, greenhouse gas emissions from energy production in developed economies decreased by 3.2 per cent, with or despite an increase of 1.7 per cent. The United States, the European Union and Japan did well in this reduction. On the other hand, to a lesser extent, but there has been an increase in emissions in China, India and the so-called Third World. This report also says that the main reason behind the successful emission reduction is that the share of fossil-based energy production in specific areas has decreased in those countries, replaced by renewable energy production on the one hand and increased production volumes of nuclear capacity on the other. It also shows that the contribution of the largest issuers has begun, but we all know that this is not enough to address our climate change problems. But something else has changed. What has changed since that date, I mean, between December 2018 and the day of debate and the submission of the bill and the proposal for a resolution, was that in many countries of the world, the political left, conspiring with the liberals, invented a new political product for himself, the climate crisis. Balliberal green forces today still claim to be progressive, as opposed to conservative national policy. It is this progression that has always wanted to change mankind and its forms of existence. This kind of progression is characterized by policy thematicisation. They make even as important a tool of politics as creation protection, nature conservation, environmental protection. A new political theme has been found today: climate protection. Today, we do not hear from them about nature and environmental protection, but they are climate protection and climate conscious. The climate threat has to be declared, because there are climate killers, as there have been long ago as long ago as there were residuals and reactionaries. This kind of progressiveness can move very quickly, so they quickly reached the limit of agriculture, animal farming and the desire to end it. [[13.00]] We felt and felt the application of this new policy from the contributions of the rapporteurs before me, except for János Bencsik. Let me give you one or two other facts to justify this. So far, the 1250 local governments of the world have declared a climate crisis, and so has the European Parliament at the end of November 2019. In addition, there are 16 countries where some regions have declared the climate crisis, and there are 9 countries where Parliament has established it. These are Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, France, Ireland, Japan, Malta, Portugal and Spain. Most of these countries are led by left-wing, green and liberal politicians. From President Macron's neoliberal team, this can be clearly said, sometimes there is a liberal left-wing majority at the border of extremes in Canada, the same can be said of Argentina and the Spanish governing forces. Looking at the map, it is quite clear that I would like to announce the climate crisis in the Western world and in the developed countries, in the cities, districts and regions of Europe and North America and Australia. Africa, South America and Asia are almost completely absent from the list of climate crises. Of the largest emitters, India and China are nowhere. So in the part of the world where there is much to do in relation to climate protection, there is no climate crisis, even though I believe that energy use in these countries should not be a priority, because energy hunger exists here in many areas, but that the inevitable increase in energy production should occur with as little CO2 emissions as possible, keeping the natural capacity and opportunities that are absorbing. This is one of the real challenges and, above all, it is here that we do not necessarily have to respond technologically to the challenge of climate change. Dear House, As is known, the European Parliament also announced a climate crisis at the end of November 2019. The Hungarian EPP delegation did not vote for this, and they wrote in their resolution: the EPP Group is in favour of action on climate protection and instead of new words. Climate change is a real process, a real threat, and therefore it is merely an unnecessary pun that we are talking about an emergency or an emergency, the important thing is action. Since 2010, the Hungarian Government has been on the side of action, not giving guarantees or consent to the creation of new and new words. If we are talking about action, it is worth considering what decisions the Hungarian Parliament, the government, has taken against climate change. Our adopted Fundamental Law already contains the idea that we must preserve the values of nature in the Carpathian Basin, and that we must bear responsibility for our offspring, and that we must protect the living conditions of the generation after us through the careful use of our natural resources. As a result of our Fundamental Law, the government's measures are not about climate protection, they are not about climate crisis, they are about environmental protection, in line with our obligations in the European Union, in support of the principles of creation protection set out in the Fundamental Law. The objectives of this have been defined, and its framework is constantly being developed. Parliament adopted the second version of the National Climate Change Strategy on 30 October 2018, which was not voted in favour of the opposition part of Parliament. On 8 January 2020, a draft national clean development strategy was drawn up, including a national energy and climate plan, a new national energy strategy, a report on the impact of climate change in the Carpathian Basin, and, as a plus, a second version of the national climate change strategy, the implementation of which will be the climate action plan, of which four or four will be created every three years. What do these documents contain? In the period 2018-2030, the impacts of climate change, the assessment of climate vulnerability in ecosystems and sectors, the achievement and targets of the 2050 greenhouse gas targets and target ranges will be examined by 2050. It includes the national decarbonisation road map, national adaptation strategy and approach design plan. The government also identified several sub-schemes of the national clear development strategy, which is a draft: a national energy and climate plan, a new national energy strategy and a report analysing the impact of climate change in the Carpathian Basin. I think it is important to say that all these documents are in line with the objectives that Hungary has adopted and supported at European Union level and at global level in the context of the Paris climate agreement. I believe that, in the possession of these documents, the government has also taken important steps forward at government level. Let me point out that, after 2018, it has merged energy and climate protection tasks within the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, thus creating a more complex and harmonised approach that will benefit all of us. I also think it is important to underline that, over the past period, decisions, action plans have been put to the fore, and that we have adopted those that strongly vote for it, and that the position will be taken in favour of climate neutrality. By 2050 Hungary has undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 95 percent compared to 1990. We have taken important steps to do this before, when, on the one hand, we closed the Vértes Power Plant, closed the Markushegy mine, and now we are talking about the transformation of the Mátra Power Plant. It has been decided to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which is also in a key position for climate neutrality, and it has also been decided on the proportion and manner in which we intend to supplement the base and base power supply for renewable electricity supply and energy supply. It is certain that by 2045 these figures will be those which otherwise exceed the expectations set out in the proposed legislation. Overall, I can say, House, that the Hungarian Government has the intention and commitment to take the steps that will be taken in the coming years in order to ensure the living conditions of the future generation, as set out in its action plan. And not only are these important steps in energy, but also in transport, which is the second largest emission area in greenhouse gas emissions. In the framework of the Jedlik Ányos programme, which was launched long ago, several years ago, he voted in favour of the electrification of transport, which meant that the government had developed a system of support that gave the government the opportunity to start fast charging stations in several places and in time. Within the framework of grants, we facilitated the purchase of electric motor vehicles and, however, adopted and practiced the goal of making the country interoperable by electric cars and electric transport. [[13.10]] To sum up, I have to say that we are very, very good in this respect, in line with our commitments in Europe, and Hungary contributes to climate protection in excess of its contribution; by contribution, I mean the extent to which it participates in greenhouse gas emissions. I have to say that in this respect we are doing well compared to the 1990 base, we can maintain that greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 40 per cent compared to 90 per cent by 2030, and we will be able to raise this to a higher level later. If we look at the proposal for a bill or a proposal for a resolution, honourable House, it can be said that, in view of what has been said, its adoption and adoption in the future would be a bit outdated, i.e. it is no longer timely to adopt the proposal for a parliamentary decision submitted. If you look at the points, point 1 is about ordering the official representative of the Parliament to follow the position of the Member at the extraordinary UN Climate Summit on September 23, 19. Without this proposal for a decision being adopted, the Hungarian representative acted in accordance with these requirements, which was formulated in this proposal for a decision. As regards point 2, two decisions were proposed by the Commission to submit a proposal for a decision. On the one hand, in order to declare the climate crisis without delay, I must say, as has been said in the debate so far, that we really find this difficult to coordinate with regard to the measures that have been taken, and, on the other hand, as I have said earlier, the submission of the bill in this form would rather lead the discussion of this serious issue to a political battlefield. The point is also that, in line with the EU and international climate protection objectives, the domestic targets for improving energy efficiency, in particular our national interests, have been reviewed. In the documents listed above, this review will be published and we intend to achieve a higher level of target within a specified time frame. The same could be said about the law itself; a large part of the documents have already been carried out according to the documents that I have just listed and presented by the government and adopted by Parliament. There is nothing we can do about Hungary's reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030. I agree with János Bencsik, the KDNP faction, that we will act within the framework of the EU's commitments to date, and we will meet them. It is obvious that we cannot accept the Green Party motion in Parliament in relation to this complex approach, which is adapted to the situation in Hungary and to European relations. The same applies to the use of energy, because this is primarily a question of economic growth, and in the context of economic growth, we have achieved good results here, as I said earlier, and we have managed to achieve economic growth by reducing emissions and energy use. I think that in this respect the Hungarian economy has passed a very good test in the last ten years. The type of economic policy that has involved high technological standards, energy-efficient solutions, should be considered successful in this respect. Overall, I think that these ideas, which have been listed in the law, should be debated, it is worth considering the relationship between the government's ideas and the content of this bill. For example, with regard to the creation of a green bank, the government is also thinking similarly when it comes to covering climate change measures by issuing green bonds, including the development of communities and consumers, with the support of renewable energies, including solar energy, photovoltaic energy. In this respect, digitalisation and the intention to spread smart meters are all included in these materials. I believe that hopefully, this series of measures, which primarily includes the technological approach, will help Hungary in the area of climate protection to achieve the ambitious and courageous goals contained in the action plans and strategies, while at the same time improving the quality of human existence in Hungary, together with environmental protection measures, and making it one of Europe's most livable countries. This is where I ask for the opposition's understanding. For the current proposals, KDNP cannot provide its support mainly for political but practical reasons. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP Group has indicated that their keynote speech will be held by two of their Members, Ms Zita Gurmai and Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to give both of us our thoughts. Although it is clear that Hungary's biggest problem is the coronal virus epidemic and the economic crisis that has arisen, we cannot forget the climate crisis, not even because it is a phenomenon that is very similar to the current epidemic on several points in terms of its effects. A few months ago, no one would have thought that a virus from China would lay the world on two shoulders. People are losing their jobs in a mass, the economy is in ruins, the basic standards of everyday life have been questioned. The bad news is that the same is expected with regard to the climate crisis. Today there are still many, including the Hungarian pro-government representatives, who believe that climate change is something that we do not have to worry about, although the reality is that the effects of climate change will be so strong that it will radically upset our daily lives in 10-15 years, and this will not only be caused by a virus with a vague background, but the problem will be much bigger. This is a disaster that we humans are causing, and it won't go away. It will not only take a few months, but if we do not act now, then forever, although Congressman Benchik has given me some hope that there is a chance that there will be a law on this. If we do not do everything in the next ten years to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally harmful economic activities, then our entire civilization could be put at risk. For this reason, it is clear to the MSZP that any proposals to maintain a viable environment must be supported. Of course, it is very difficult to argue that we know that there are many people on the right who are not even aware of the concept of climate crisis. [[13.20]] Even the supposedly environmental head of state said recently that the announcement of the climate situation in the capital city is no more than a political rhetorical catch. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Then János Áder concluded that, I quote, climate protection does not affect, for example, the threat of the water crisis, the recycling of plastic waste, the protection of land, biodiversity, the preservation of wildlife diversity. I'm sorry, but where there's so much chaos in the brains of basic climate protection concepts, you really have to start with the basics. I am therefore trying to put it this way so that everyone realizes how serious, serious a problem this is. Let's start by saying there's no other Earth. Imagine, not even Lőrinc Mészáros, not even Viktor Orbán; no matter how much money you have collected, not even for your family. We have to live on this planet, and if we destroy this, it's all over. People are going to die because of the heat, or if you don't care about that, I can put it according to your standards: you can water whatever you want, even in the high street stadium, the lawn will burn out. Today, the number of extreme hot days in our country is less than two weeks a year. By the end of the century, this period will be doubled, i.e. our children and grandchildren will have to suffer from the heat for almost a month. As society is ageing and older people are more sensitive to the devastating effects of heat, this means that by 2050, excess mortality in individual regions can reach 166 percent. Yeah, you heard me, 166 percent more people are gonna die. Health care is not prepared for this at all, in terms of infrastructure and human resources. We can already see the signs of this, by the way. Agricultural production will decline due to drought. Higher temperatures will lead to an explosion of air-conditioning equipment, which will mean enormous energy demand. Perhaps it is clear from this point that the term climate disaster is not an exaggeration at all, and I did not even mention the social impact at the time. With extra heat spending, a whole new dimension of energy poverty will appear, and there will be many who will not be able to defend themselves against heat. So far, only in winter did we read how many people froze in their homes because they couldn't heat, after a few decades because of the heat, the news will be filled with deaths, the names of those who couldn't defend themselves against the heat. What do you government representatives do to avoid, or at least reduce, these dangers? Well, not much. The Ministry of Environment has been abolished. This is the only measure they've taken that tells us that the Orbán government doesn't care about the future at all. But you haven't stopped here yet, because you've not only failed, but you've also destroyed. The exploitation of renewable energy sources has literally been banned. They stopped the construction of wind farms. They've taxed solar panels and heat pumps. They wiped out a lot of trees in Budapest and the countryside, eliminating major green areas. Instead of building water-saving irrigation technologies, everyone was allowed to drill wells, thus reducing the amount of layer water. Already five years ago, two million tonnes more greenhouse gases were emitted than permitted. So you can see that we are at the last minute. The announcement of the climate crisis is not yet a solution, but a chance to avoid the worst. Of course, you don't even know what a climate crisis is, because your propaganda man on public television asked the mayor how the sirens had spoken. No, sirens don't speak because the climate crisis is about taking concrete measures. These are measures that can first stop the harmful processes that have already started and give us a chance to preserve the living environment. According to our proposal, the Parliament announces the climate crisis and obliges the government to develop and implement short, medium and long-term climate protection and climate adaptation measures. With the help of a green New Deal, Hungarian families, businesses and jobs can also have a new chance of recovering as soon as possible and sustainable growth. This proposal is supported by representatives of all opposition parties. And really, in order to ensure that my fellow Members do not misunderstand anything, I will list some of the specifics that the Climate Protection Act should contain. I'm confident you'll support him. Hungary will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55 percent by 2030, and we will reduce our energy consumption by at least 30 percent. At least 35 percent of our final energy consumption comes from renewable energy. By 2050, we will achieve total climate neutrality, net zero greenhouse gas emissions. By 2025, we will close the Hungarian lignite and coal plants while taking account of the labour market and social aspects. We will abolish measures limiting the use of wind energy. The VAT on solar panels, solar systems and heat pumps is reduced from the current 27 percent to the reduced 5 percent. We support the transition of the population and local communities from consumers to active energy producers. With state aid, we will launch an energy modernisation programme for the domestic housing stock and launch a support programme for the energy efficiency development of domestic businesses, financed by a new green bank. We're setting up a green procurement system. We are changing the related public policy regulations on the basis of sustainability considerations. We are introducing amendments in support of climate protection in the tax system. We are launching social policy programmes that promote climate justice, protecting and supporting vulnerable social groups in particular. Mr. Secretary of State spoke of such things, I'm glad to hear that. We are launching social awareness-raising campaigns, particularly with regard to economic decision-makers. We are developing a complex programme of climate adaptation, focusing on agriculture, food safety, water management, municipal policy, housing, critical infrastructure and public health. We will restore the Ministry of Environment with its former powers and autonomy. You have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that the announcement of the climate crisis and climate protection are far more complex than you have ever thought. The good news is that many countries have already set out on this path. The Irish, French, Catalan and British legislation have already announced the climate crisis, but the municipalities of San Francisco, New York City, Vancouver, Milan, Naples, Basel, Zurich, London, Paris and many smaller Western European cities have decided to do so. The leaders of Los Angeles went even further, and there, for the first time in the world, a climate-emergency mobilization department and a climate-emergency committee were set up. I would therefore ask you not to treat this as a political prestige issue, since you can already see the warning signs. Invasive species have appeared in Hungary that have never, ever died in Europe, and diseases that have so far only occurred in Africa. It's all because of the ever-extreme change in weather. The announcement of the climate crisis is not a symbolic gesture, but must be filled with real action. Let's not just wake up when we're in a panic and there's a heat alarm going on for weeks. If we decide now, we've only got ten or twelve years to contain the climate disaster. Please vote in favour of our proposal for a decision, because if you do not, we will face far more serious and lasting consequences even in the current epidemic situation. And let's not forget that tomorrow is Earth Day. I thank you very much for your attention, and also Mr President, for allowing us to do it together.
u2020-04-21-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Varga, the notary of the Parliament, continues the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2020-04-21-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Zita Gurmai said very precisely our proposals partly for the presentation, in part, I think that in general, because I naively hope for a change in government policy, so after ten years, and I think that this day could be symbolic if they supported the proposals, but we are not talking about today alone. I think that we are talking about the coming years and decades of policy-making, going through government cycles. So how we relate to each other in this matter and what we say to the Hungarian society is undoubtedly very important, and this is where our proposals were made. In fact, this situation gives me an opportunity to consider, based on the work of the past period, the situation in which we are in and our relationship with the specific issue and some local experience, because I live in the valley of Sajó, in Miskolc, where the climate crisis is, I think that one of the most serious issues will be in the coming years, decades, and already is. Many times in my life, I have been in a situation in all kinds of communities in many areas of life that I have had to find a kind of synchronization between different positions, synthesize, and this is a very ambitious political work for me. At the same time, in political work, I see this as the most serious role: to see at an early stage, between different positions in time, to find consistency, to find and to make the decisions that result, to make a real policy of action. If we look at the real, active, consensual policies that have been there in the last ten years, perhaps we could say some symbolic issues, but the last ten years have led us to think, unfortunately, of environmental protection and green policy. I have to say that the position of the government and the position of the pro-government representatives on environmental protection was so different from that of the opposition's representatives, I refer here to LMP, Dialogue, MSZP or DK, but also from Jobbik's benches, there were positions that were similar to our position that I saw this as a break in the rest of the world. Saying what progressive forces think, let's say, whether in the United States or anywhere in the world, about the issue of environmental protection, and what, if any, right-wing, conservative forces think, who are obviously looking at it from the economic point of view, even in the United States, was very, very different. We're at a turning point, that's what I think. We are at a turning point because of the coronal virus, indeed, this has been referred to by several people, which is the turning point of this year. We never thought we'd face such an epidemic, and it has such social and economic implications. But the climate crisis is now, in part, less talked about. I see that last year there has been a turnaround in the world and in part in Hungary in this case, not necessarily in politics, unfortunately, but in society. What happened last year? Last year, I see that the vast majority of society began to feel on its skin, where appropriate during the summer, but in various other climate change situations and in the agricultural and other contexts of this climate change, society began to feel that there is a problem, that things are not going the way they were going before, that the climate is really changing, and that it will have very serious economic and social impacts. Now, at least what makes your politics look like they're changing, we could analyze that now, one thing's for sure: you're always measuring, you're measuring a lot. They measured me after the municipal elections all last year, and they began to feel that this is an increasingly important topic for Hungarian society, much more important than it could have been ten years ago, and the Hungarian society expects solutions on these issues. So what I can say is that if you consider this to be an important issue, not only at the level of words, but in fact at the level of an issue in which you want to present solutions to the Hungarian society, you should take it into account and note that only professional solutions across government cycles can achieve results. So make a gesture, and I think it would be an important gesture that these proposals are actually discussed in substance by the House, that the committees really consider the amendments in substance, and that, where appropriate, the House accepts the proposals by consensus. It's obviously the front of a road, but it would be an important step, I think. I hope this isn't a naive thing on my part. I read an article on the Internet this morning, by the way, when I was preparing for my speeches in part, this is also shocking, we are talking a lot about 2050, and what goals could be achieved then; according to a research, by 2050, there will be no ice in the Arctic Sea in the summer. How interesting it is that there will be a very serious, huge sea on Earth, contrary to your name, if nothing happens. So there are a lot of tasks, and perhaps we can say that this is far from us, and it does not affect us, the change in the water level of the oceans or seas does not affect us, but it also has drastic effects on Hungary in particular, because in this particular area, desertification, the amount of water and the amount of precipitation can be a significant result of this climate change if we do not do something that can make the Carpathian Basin an unlivable place for 30-40 years, even in our lives, but in the lives of our children and grandchildren. We must prevent this, and what can be done in this case, yes, is a global question of what can be done, but what can be done here, I believe, must be done. Let me mention a few things in this. On the one hand, food production was said. This country can produce at least twice the food required here. The things that hinder the performance of this must be removed, and indeed the family economies must be supported, and not the great oligarchs, in the matter of the earth. Here I would refer to an agricultural dispute two weeks ago, when we did see that they were once again favourable to larger farms, otherwise contrary to the principles set out in the land law. It's a question of the country's ability to sustain. So, if we link Hungarian food production with the maintenance capacity of the countryside, we will see villages that are not empty, this is an important fundamental issue, the fundamental question of the future. It's a question of water management. We've heard a lot from you over the last ten years about how much water flows through our country, and how much it is worth. How can we hold this water? How can we not only theoretically move forward in irrigation farming or, where appropriate, take serious steps towards sustainable water management? The process of forestry could be an issue that could create jobs in Hungary, if we take this seriously, very much anyway, and it would also have a major role to play in limiting carbon dioxide and dust pollution, so there are very serious opportunities and reserves in this, too. In waste management over the last 30 years, if we are honest, there are very serious debts. Even 15-20 years ago, the types of landfills have been created in several areas of Hungary, which do not allow depotation to be properly selected. There are a lot of reserves in this, and this is also a serious industry. So I think that rethinking waste management and making it sustainable is also a process that requires serious progress. In many places we have seen a step backwards in the last ten years, and I should think of a lot of things from the time of kukaholding, through the rethinking of many well-functioning rural systems that were unnecessary, I see that in several rural cities there is a step backwards, even in selective waste collection. Brownfield rehabilitation. Here, let me turn to a case in Miskolc, which I have suggested many times here, and passed by the ears. There are also several industrial areas in Miskolc and Borsod counties which, by their very existence, cause serious dust pollution, require rehabilitation, where appropriate, and nothing happens at a time when the cohesion fund could have spent a great deal of resources to think not only in the creation of greenfield industrial areas, but also in brownfield rehabilitation. [[13.40]] I see this 5-percent flat tax in rust zones as a very small sign, but there is a lot to do here, too, because, by the way, licensing will be delayed, two years to beat a story like this, much higher costs and other incentives are needed in this story to really reduce the number of rust zones or brownfield industrial areas in our country. I still have to mention about Sajó Valley, that energy applications have been mentioned, what results are otherwise in this regard. I don't really get it. In Miskolc, one third of the apartments in industrialized buildings were renewed between 2002-10. Thus, one third of the total stock has been subject to energy modernisation, reducing heating bills, emissions, and, by the way, the overhead costs of families, and I saw that this work stopped after 2010, or at least stopped for a while, or we could observe a very slow start-up. Consider that in this regard, if they had only continued at the earlier pace, 75 percent of the apartments in Miskolc would have been renewed today if only they had continued. Now it is clear that this is what we really need to achieve a sustainable reduction, and this was a huge mistake, but if they are really changing their policies now, then this needs to be restarted. EU funds should be allocated to this and, moreover, greater resources should be allocated to family homes. We have also heard of modern heating systems, accounting for at least 80 percent of dust pollution, i.e. at least 80 percent of PM10 pollution. The most polluted air from year to year is in the valley of Sajó during critical periods, by the way. Putnok, Kazincbarcika often hear a lot of Sajószentpéter and Miskolc. At least 300,000 people still live in this area, as many have migrated here in the last 30 years because of negative social and economic impacts. Let's make this environment healthy for the people who live here, for the people who stay here. Let's move forward in this and really spend some money, a lot, on modernising heating systems. This is an extremely high level of health damage, by the way. Cancers and other serious diseases are indirectly caused by this terrible air. I note that air pollution in the corona virus has also been associated with diseases by Italian researchers, so it is certainly not a situation that we all should not be fighting to eradicate without delay. I'm glad that after all these years, you can finally hear this voice and act, and you can count on our support if you really do. It is important, however, to highlight one more direction that the untimely nature of public transport, of car transport, and of very bad emissions affect air pollution. It may not be as much as heating during the heating season, but it would certainly be extremely important to import the electric car programme and electric drive to public transport by mass, in large numbers. This is what EU funds should be devoted to, as well as the solar programme, which would save a lot of households, and should not only be in the form of interest-free loans, but also in the form of effective support for this type of investment. Overall, I will help myself in the faith that in the coming years this work may be naive, but I still believe that consensus can be reached in this, and they will actually do so, because they started by eliminating the Ministry of the Environment by placing this case on a low shelf. So I very much hope that both the pro-government representatives and the government will see how important this is, and if we can really move forward, that the Sajó Valley and Miskolc will be carbon neutral, climate neutral areas, which is the most beautiful area of the country and has been for me, but I hope that if we take action, it will host hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families and be able to live for centuries. That's why I'm starting this fight myself, and I really hope they're finally changing their policies. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister for the Environment, Oh, no. You liquidated him, executed him. Dear Mr. Greenombudsman, Oh, yeah. He's been eliminated, too. Honourable President of the Republic, who considers himself green! Yeah, she's not here either, because you can't take pictures with carp, and in fact, when you need real performance, you're missing it. He never raised his voice at home about environmental problems. He's out there at a lot of water conferences, because you can take pictures there, at home, when work is waiting for you to do something about climate change, you can't find him. Orbán said that environmental protection will be dealt with if they receive more money from the European Union. They do not understand that the fight against climate change cannot wait, because every year wasted, this fight will only cost more. It can't be avoided, it's just getting worse, and there's going to be more irreversible processes that can't be stopped with most of the money. They do not understand that the fight against climate change is not an abstract concept, but a basis for social well-being. Of course, you do not care about the people who have lost their jobs during the epidemic, you do not receive any support from you, so you do not understand that climate change is primarily affecting the poorer people, which is why they do not deal with it in substance, because, of course, the effects of climate change are less felt in the luxurious forks of Rose Hill. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: In Szemlőhegy utca?]] What have you been doing on government for ten years? They were hiding. Now they're hiding out here, but if someone asks who's representing the Ministry of Environment now, they can't even mention a name, you're invisible. All this time, they have said that the work on climate change is nothing but a watermelon, that outside it is a little green, inside is red, and then suddenly it seems that you too have become watermelon, because you have done some statistical research that shows that this is one of the topics that Hungarians are most interested in, and you see that after the lost municipal elections you have to change something, and suddenly you want to be green too. Last summer, the Climate Change Act was decided to try to negotiate it now, during the epidemic threat. They think they're gonna get away with it, that few people care about it, because hundreds of thousands of people are at risk of living every day. But don't lean back, because you can't get away with this, you can't put it in the drawer, and no matter what the outcome of today's discussion is, the opposition parties, the Democratic Coalition, will keep this on the agenda. They think that people are treating it as such a distant, abstract thing, and they won't care. You can see on Facebook, social media that people's sensitivity and responsibility for environmental problems have increased significantly in recent years. But whatever you say, what do you want to do? We will not forget that one of their first actions was the abolition of the Ministry of the Environment. This ministry has always been found. You seem to have hidden it, you don't have a face, you don't have a face, you've been kicked out of the party quickly, you've practically stopped being a Fidesz policyr because you were really interested in environmental protection. He was the politician who chained himself to the tree. Now, you've cut down the trees, you can't even chain yourself to these trees. [[13.50]] The green ombudsman, you know, the one who would have been responsible for the future generation, that doesn't affect you either. The classic saying that we'll have to deal with this for our grandchildren is long gone. It is not because of our grandchildren, but because it affects everyone today as it is today, it does not refer to a distant future. If there's something that can only be fought together, it's climate change. You are also in a difficult situation in this regard, since you have been navigated internationally to a situation where you are not welcome to speak to you abroad. Hungary is constantly at war with the world, making it more difficult to develop constructive cooperation. You're trying, you've seen polls that say that it's not enough for people that you're talking about Soros, you're talking about Soros agents. They're tired of you consulting on this. When climate change was the subject and the European Union wanted to initiate a discussion with the population, you forgot to do this consultation. In quiet, secret, smoky rooms, paperwork for the EU was filled out, but no real consultation was made. [[To Lőrinc Nacsa in the ministerial row:]] Don't look back, Congressman. They didn't consult! You're only willing to consult on Soros. You don't care about anything else. I therefore suggest that, if you really show that you are here for the environment, you should, for example, take out those previous opposition billes, amendments, written questions from the last ten years that you have swept off the table, you have not been interested, you have been voted down continuously, because neither the country nor politics will forget this. You've changed suddenly, but there's evidence. There's City Park as evidence that you're interested in fighting climate change, how much you're interested in environmental protection. In City Park, all you care about is the concrete and the money you can steal. We have initiated that if there is any construction, they should make wooding mandatory per square metre. You have rejected this bill of DK. We have initiated a selection of areas where civil society organisations could plant forests. You have rejected this initiative of DK. We have initiated a permanent 1 percent offer to deal with the climate crisis. You have rejected this initiative of DK. We have initiated a comprehensive inclusion in the NAT of environmental protection and climate protection curriculum. You replied that everything was all right, and that DK's proposal was rejected by you. I myself have repeatedly initiated a much stronger punishment for illegal littering by this government. You have rejected this despite repeated initiatives in recent years. We have initiated much tougher rules on packaging waste to reduce it. You have rejected this in the last ten years. This was another DK initiative. We have initiated to provide more resources to green civilians, given that they also carry out a lot of government tasks. You have rejected DK's proposal. We have initiated the possibility for individuals, condominiums and private homes to move forward in the field of energy efficiency from EU funds. You have rejected this and rather redistributed this amount to state institutions. We have initiated to provide much more resources for the continuation of the panel program. You have rejected DK's proposal. We have initiated that the MNB should not use money to finance foundations, to buy real estate, to open a restaurant, but to support the implementation of energy efficiency programmes and to use this money to do so. You have rejected this. I would like to say our initiative on wind power, on setting up a climate research institute, on solar energy. Dear Fidesz, Dear Government, A thousand initiatives can be listed by opposition parties from the past period, or suddenly, after a municipal defeat, it turns out that you too are watermelons: green outside, red inside, and suddenly begin to deal with the climate threat and emergency situation a little more seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, The recovery from the crisis caused by the virus must be linked to the green light. Green action plans should not be cut short for economic growth, but should be integrated into economic recovery measures. The first priority in economic recovery should be not to give money to fidesz oligarchs, but to protect poor people, to protect jobs and to start greening. Let us not forget that, in view of the wider climate crisis, the emergence of the virus is linked and that in order to reduce the risk of the emergence of new viruses, the climate crisis and the related social crisis must be dealt with jointly. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[Dr. László László Keresztes steps on the speaker stand.]] I'll wait till Congressman gets here. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the Group. He's speaking from here, from the platform. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At the end of this comment, there were some ideas that I could identify with, but at the same time I am trying to get back to the content and professional debate, making this extremely important issue less political. I am very pleased, as many speakers in the debate, that the speakers of all the groups agreed that the most important task now is to deal directly with the epidemiological situation, to protect human life and to help those people, families who are in trouble, while at the same time stressing that this debate is justified and important. They also resented, in particular, the fact that it didn't happen sooner, which I find a little cynical. We tabled this bill or a proposal for a resolution in September, and it has only just come before the House, but let us not look at it now. I think we are pleased to be able to debate this issue. That is very true, and this has been pointed out among the previous speakers that, now, in addition to fighting the epidemic and its effects, we must already see that there is no goal to go back there, to the mechanism of operation that has been observed over the last long period of time. So it cannot be anyone's goal to try to reconstruct that economic logic, that economic policy structure, which in many respects has made society and the economy vulnerable at a level the weakness and vulnerability of which has, by the way, been shown by this tragic epidemic. So now we're starting a debate. We are not having a debate here today, but we have launched a debate. I, too, would like to make a contribution to this, so in response to the governance of the last few years, in response to the speeches and plans made here, I would like to start this debate, so to say, by responding to concrete things, and by focusing on what we are doing wrong now, and what we need to turn immediately in a different direction in order to have a chance to rebuild the economy to the foundations of a more sustainable system. I was very pleased to hear some speeches, and I should specifically mention the speech by Mr Bencsik, which I will also have to confront in substance in certain aspects of the Government's action over the past ten years. Action and specific thoughts and plans can conflict here, and I will also have to confront the representative of the government. But I was very interested in the last thought of Mr Bencsik, that he was confident that, at the end of a discussion process, there could be a law, which, let us say, does not contain a complete consensus in all its elements, but at least outlines a direction that we agree on in most of the most important aspects of which we agree. I would be very happy if we could get to the end of this debate. I think that would be a huge step, and it would definitely be the most important development of the past cycles if we could get this far. It is very important that, in this debate, not only in today's debate, but in the coming weeks and then, if there are other proposals before Parliament, we should try to get to the point where we can clarify precisely the challenges that we are facing. There are very serious differences in the assessment of the situation, even within the political side of the various speakers. And if we want to find solutions, we need to make the assessment very precise, so exactly what challenges we are facing. Then it is possible to argue about solutions, but to achieve the goals at all. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by László Földi.]] We need to see the mistakes that policy has made not only in the last ten years, but also in the past cycles, let us say, from the change of regime in this respect. The serious errors of both the current government and the previous Balliberal governments could be classified for a very long time, but attention should also be paid to the need for immediate intervention, because they are still in front of the Parliament, and projects have started to take away virtually the means and possibilities of the green revolution that everyone is talking about, by the way. I would also like to discuss these in more detail. [[14.00]] Well, I agree with the manifestations that it is not about what passwords we say, what measures we take, more specifically what the title is, but what the content is. It is true that it is not about what we are talking about, but about what we are doing. And then I would like to respond immediately to the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, who spoke on behalf of the government. We may have heard a bit of a cynical comment here that the opposition is developing, that it is here. Let us consider this a positive expression from the government that, let us say, this has succeeded in the most positive statement towards the opposition. I think that then we can repay this with a similar comparison: the government is developing, that it no longer considers climate change to be a Bolshevist trick, but it could also be said by a pro-government representative that it is indeed one of the greatest challenges of our time, the biggest challenge of our reading. So, in this respect, I must express similar praise, this is a relatively rapid change, a rapid turn of events, but let us now call it progress in this debate, which the government side has been able to demonstrate; this is certainly a step forward, which I wanted to mention. [[Dr. László Varga is replaced by Dr. László György Lukács in the notary seat.]] Well, it must be pointed out, however, from the rapporteur's statement that there is still a huge distance between, say, the LMP faction and the government's reading in the interpretation of the problems and assessment of the situation. We have seen in the last ten years, not what they say, but what they have done, that they have considered environmental protection to be a kind of restrictive factor, that there have been various investments that are kind to your heart, for which you have virtually cleaned up the institutional system, the environmental institution system, which is likely to have been regarded as a burden and thought that this should be eliminated. I am very confident that they will face this approach after at least ten years of such destruction. Over the last ten years, we have seen that you have not protected the natural treasures, and have even made a policy contrary to that, and in many cases, you have even marketed these fundamental national and natural treasures and values, the possession of which, the protection of which is a fundamental national interest, if we look into the future. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] We also see, and this has already been mentioned in previous speeches, that we can talk about sustainable social functioning if territorial development in Hungary is balanced, and we fill the peripheral rural areas that are breaking down again. Well, there are a lot of measures that are also in front of us now, so practical and political action will be needed in particular. And what is one of his most important statements, and let's just say the most painful statement of the former Secretary of State, and this is obviously not about the Secretary of State, but about the position of the government, which we very much disagree with, that you accused opposition proposers of confronting economic development on the issue of climate change, that is not true. We say that economic policy, which pursues endless growth, is incomprehensible in a world where natural resources are limited. We say that we do not have to drive profit, we say that growth is not the right measure of economic development, and in this we have a very, very serious debate with you. You are pursuing a pure, wild liberal, neoliberal economic policy, and this is indeed a huge debate; we need a fundamental shift in economic policy, i.e. a radical turnaround in economic policy. I think that if we fail to come to terms with this issue, we will not be able to move forward on such issues in substance. And I would now like to return to Mr Benchik's speech on the subject of reactions. Despite the fact that there were points I could not identify with very, very much, here, especially with regard to the use of nuclear energy, I think it is essential to say that a pro-government representative here predominantly painted a very, very, very positive vision for us, and he expressed thoughts that I, frankly, did not think that any representative of today's parliamentary majority would present here at the Parliament meeting. Yes, we can indeed say that there is a Member in a minority, and I do not know which of my fellow Members has already been formulated here, that Fidesz has not set up a lead speaker for today's debate, because Mr Bencsik has practically made a positive, very good, positive, coherent comment, which in many of its elements is in perfect contradiction with what we have seen here in the last ten years at the level of political action and decision-making. It was very important in Mr President's mind that, yes, it must be said that the current pace of climate change is now an unprecedented process, and that is a huge part of human activity, the economy. It was also a very, very important idea that we only have decades, and it may not be possible to speak in plural here, so that this effect can be slowed down. There were some left-wing Members here in Parliament who were talking about a little bit of a misdirection of the issue of the need to stop climate change. It was very right of the Member to talk about the need to try to reduce and reduce its effects. Well, let's not chase illusions. So it is very, very important that we look at this issue in a realistic way. I thought it was very, very important to think about normal welfare services, over-eating and over-eating. I would also like to point out that at present there is complete vulnerability to technology, there is a waste of forced consumption, and I agree perfectly with it, and this was a very, very important question, that, in effect, even if we are talking about the decision-making mechanism of the European Union, it is indeed captured by forces that have no interest in these fundamental changes being made. We have had a lot of discussions and are going to continue on the functioning of the European Union, but it is clear that in many respects it is wrong that thousands of lobbyists from large global companies have taken the decision-making mechanism of the European Union into captivity, and there is much we need to do to ensure that European integration, the European Union, is truly able to demonstrate a function that is in the interests of European citizens, against, say, the interests of large corporate profits. There is therefore also agreement in this regard. It was also an important idea, which I have already suggested, that we should think about in a single settlement system, so that life will be sustainable, then society will become, the economy will be in Hungary once the settlements of different sizes again find the natural connection that, as we see now, the settlement system has developed in Hungary. And I think there are very serious aspects to this, and this is far from an environmental issue, this is an economic policy and territorial development issue. And then, on to the specifics, time is running out: economic policy change, economic policy change. I don't want to talk about this much, because I think it's a little bit short of time, but what we saw from the government was a liberal policy serving the profits of multi-company companies in a slave manner. Here, strategic agreements were concluded with multinational companies, they launched an attack on higher education, and they were able to put Hungary in a position where the scientific sector is going down, higher education is going down, the entire education sector is going down. A lot of people from this country went away, talented young people, looking for prosperity, and they wanted to turn Hungary into a assembly plant, because they thought that in the short term, as long as you are able to think, this is in their political interests, not a long-term thinking. The difficulties of this will now come back, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm saying that basically we need to represent a completely different economic policy, we need to see it and we need to feel it in the 21st century. The challenges of the 20th century, the challenges we face, and how a country can prepare itself for this. And what we are saying is that basically we need to base this economic policy on knowledge, well-trained young people, well-trained professionals, on high added value products, to prepare to achieve self-sufficiency as much as possible. The most important goods and products must be tried to produce at home or at least in regional cooperation, to transport mass products from non-distant continents, and to force the well-trained Hungarian workforce to leave, here building on the economic policy of assembly plants with minimal added value and enormous energy needs. So there's a huge difference. I say, Mr. State Secretary, and I do not have a problem with you personally, I would like to stress this, but that today's government, led by Viktor Orbán, is a pure heir to the SZDSZ, the free democrats, of which we can say that it was a youth class. [[Ferenc Koncz: Aynye-nye!]] and thus Viktor Orbán remained faithful to being vice-president of the Liberal International, because he can speak rhetorically in a national way, but let's look at what he is doing, see what the impact of his policy is, and unfortunately his policy has an impact that we say János Kóka could be proud of. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Unfortunately, yes!]] Well, let's look at the specifics you've been talking about. It is a very, very important issue of energy, of energy policy, and I think that this is the area where we will have the most serious debates with you. Before I even get to the ideas that Congressman Aradski has expressed about nuclear energy, you have not spoken, you have avoided the question of energy efficiency. So here the fundamental task of energy supply is to strive for an economic structure that requires less energy to operate, heating the economy, and so on. [[14.10]] Very little has been said about this, although it would have enormous economic development potential if there were to be opportunities for building insulation, the production of various building engineering tools, and therefore a great deal of jobs could be created with the support of the industry for reducing energy use. And indeed, these would be green jobs, and this would be the first step if we talked about energy policy, how we could achieve a turnaround that would require less energy. Then we can get to the use of nuclear power right away. You have prepared a climate strategy, presented it to the Parliament, and unfortunately we have to say that we can make progress on certain issues, and we can also express our agreement on certain formulated rhetorical elements, but basically this climate strategy, we see, is intended to serve to legitimise the Paks II-giga project. However, we do not agree with this in any way, and we may also have to argue with opposition groups about Paks. We remember Paks II, don't we? The Treaty was concluded in 2014 in the way it was concluded, but in 2009 it was a preface to this decision, and in 2009 the country was led by Balliberal governments, and we can say that it was a major coalition decision in 2009 on the launch of the Paks enlargement. At that time neither the LMP nor the Jobbik were members of the Hungarian Parliament. So I think that we need to go much further here than to look for an existing pro-government and opposition conflict, in order to support this. So what we are saying is that instead of fetishising and forcing nuclear power, we need to create a sustainable energy mix, basically based on renewable energies and flexible networks that can solve security of supply. With regard to nuclear power and specifically the Paks enlargement, you have made a lot of arguments, but if we go through these, which obviously will not have time for now, then we can see that most of these have proved to be mistakes or simply lies. So it is not true that nuclear energy would be cheap, it is not true that nuclear energy is predictable and safe, and it is not true that nuclear energy is green, and I will prove this, fellow Members, and I sincerely hope that we will be able to have a dialogue debate on this in the course of the debate. Now, basically, the costs of the Paks expansion are set at 4000 billion if we look at the plans at the time, but this cost was not included in the cost of future decommissioning, the cost of nuclear waste management was not included, we do not know exactly what technical elements are being calculated, because we know that the Russians were able to deliver the plans with huge delays, and I understand that the entire authorisation documentation has not yet been completed. We do not know how to count on cooling towers, cooling lakes, but we do know that if this investment is made, we need to make huge improvements in the Hungarian electricity grid, which is also measured in hundreds of billions. And if we put all these costs in addition, then a huge, much larger amount will come out, so here we could talk about 5000 billion forints at least, but 6500-7000 billion forints is not unrealistic. If we look at the other costs, then we can see that nuclear energy will not be cheap at all, and it will be extremely expensive, and it will cost a lot of money, and it will require a lot of resignations from the Hungarian population. So what we are saying is that the Paks project should not be postponed, but should be stopped, and this huge amount should be used to underpin a sustainable energy strategy. There have been arguments from you that nuclear power would be green. Now, if we look directly at emissions, the whole life cycle and all other related activities, then it is not greener than renewable energy, it is quite clear, I think it is not worth opening a debate on this, but if we look at other aspects and put aside for a moment the issues about nuclear energy security, then it is worth taking a detour in terms of fuel production. I myself am Pécs, and anyone who lives in Pécs, Baranya or Pécs knows exactly what a brutal environmental-destructive industry uranium mining is. There was uranium mining in Hungary for a relatively short period of time, obviously for political reasons, it was never realistic; obviously there were military reasons for this, and the environmental destruction that was still visible to this day was quite amazing. And I must underline this, my fellow Members, because we talk little about this, and perhaps you live elsewhere, you do not know that this has never caused an irreparable environmental destruction. So far, Hungarian taxpayers have cost HUF 30 billion for the activities of recultivation, but this process can never be stopped. I suggest that everyone visit that area, and, by the looks of it, you will see only a part of these tracks, but I think that there is a possibility that the use of nuclear energy cannot be regarded as green energy. If we look at the level of safety measures required by the use of nuclear energy, it is also very, very simple to calculate that this will also represent a huge cost increase against nuclear energy. So this is also against nuclear energy. You also argue that this reduces our energy dependence on the Russians. This is obviously a mistake, obviously in terms of financing the investment, in terms of construction, technology, as well as the acquisition of fuel, increasing our exposure in all respects, increasing our dependence on Russia. Paks II. We can also say that this cannot be integrated into a system only on the basis of its logic and renewable energies, so it is not good at all, and this makes it impossible if we really want to create a sustainable energy policy and an energy system. How predictable and safe nuclear power is, I suggest we cut this debate short by looking at the number of such failures, problems and shutdowns in recent years in connection with the current Paks Nuclear Power Plant. They will be given a surprisingly large number of data, by the way, if they need it in the debate, and I would be very happy to explain how many times there has been an unforeseen shutdown, which is certainly not an argument in favour of nuclear power being predictable. Fortunately, the nuclear accident is rare, we have seen historical tragedies, but what we know is that if it happens, there will be very unpredictable consequences. This needs to be taken into account and, therefore, safety in relation to the use of nuclear energy will cost enormously. But we also need to talk about if we're talking about nuclear power, how it's going to get out. So, if we look at the entire life cycle and think responsibly, I think that this is a minimum of what we can expect from all of us, then we need to think about what will happen to the nuclear power plants that have expired, and what will happen to the spent fuel, what will we do with them. At present, a professional consensus has been adopted, which was also recorded by the Hungarian Parliament in a decision to place nuclear fuel in a permanent deep geological storage. But I do not know if you know, fellow Members, that there is no definitive solution anywhere in the world for this, so there is no technology, and that packaging sealing technology could not prove beyond any doubt that this technology exists, there is no financing model for it, and there is no proper choice of location for it, and therefore there is no permanent object for the storage of high-activity nuclear waste anywhere in the world. We will discuss this in detail today at the next item on the agenda. So it is an extremely serious and irresponsible policy in itself to invest in an insane amount of money in a technology that has no solution, which has no solution to an important element, permanent decommissioning or safe storage of nuclear waste. In Hungary, research is being conducted in the area of Boda near Pécs, and it has become very clear that the idea of creating such an object in the vicinity of a metropolitan agglomeration is not justified, and you will also need to review your decisions and policies so far. So much for nuclear power all of a sudden. And what I can tell you is that, of course, we were pleased to hear about the transfers announced in recent years in relation to epidemiological and economic policy measures, that perhaps a sum of 30 billion will be transferred from the capital increase in Paks to the economic protection action plan, but we still find that little. Paks II. This year's budget includes HUF 92 billion, and we recommend that this total amount be spent in support of Hungarian families and Hungarians in difficulty. I think that there can be no discussion that this is the most important one, and this is an extremely important step. With a little jump: here I have also heard statements from my pro-government colleagues saying that the results of the reduction of the rent must be protected, I have heard that clean water is a national treasure. I agree with the latter, and I definitely consider the former false and hypocritical. What has happened here with regard to the protection of water resources and the protection of water in the last ten years? And let us not be unfair, the same was observed in the period before 2010. So you are practically our most important asset, in terms of drinking water, you have pursued an extremely irresponsible, destructive policy, similarly to your predecessors. We have actually come to the point where the entire water sector in Hungary is on the verge of collapse, and in recent times we have seen that even in an extremely serious situation like this, in an epidemiological situation, the government is not willing to hear it during the period of the unfolding of an economic crisis. We are talking about the period after 2010, since then the number of failures has doubled. [[14.20]] The number of water systems with an appropriate rating has fallen below 20 per cent. About 30 percent of the network losses, so 30 percent of the drinking water produced is simply drained from the system because of the poor quality network. The various estimates include a huge amount of between HUF 1500 and HUF 3000 billion, which is missing for 15 years in order to achieve adequate maintenance and replacement work in order to achieve basic infrastructure, drinking water supply and drainage and proper treatment of waste water. And if the treatment of waste water is not achieved, it will have a clear consequence that the water bases will be damaged, if necessary irretrievably, and this is also contrary to their claim that clean water is a national treasure. Yes, we should just protect this national treasure, not just for ourselves, but for future generations, for the future of our children. And compared to this, we have seen that in the last few days the Hungarian Water Facility Association has asked the government for help, that the Hungarian government should take measures to allow water service companies, which are mostly owned and maintained by local governments, to receive a delay in the payment of the utility tax, because they are already facing huge operational problems, and unfortunately this demand is also on deaf ears. If my fellow Members think a little further about the consequences of this, if the operation of water utility companies becomes difficult, it will indeed have incomprehensible consequences, I think that no one can accept this. However, my fellow Members have spoken in the same way about the issue of water governance, water management, responsible water management, the importance of this and the very, very serious economic policy opportunities involved. And indeed, there has been talk of a balanced settlement system, rural areas, the operation of small settlements. And if we look at how these small settlements are exposed, exposed to the effects of climate change, we can again say that these are measures that would require immediate, rapid political action and decision-making, not long-term thinking. We see it, and we can all experience it, whether we live in a city or in a small settlement or in the countryside, the extreme effects of climate change. So we're seeing weather anomalies that, let's say, occurred once a hundred years ago, and now we're experiencing them every two years. And from one day to the next, there could be brutal storms, environmental disasters that are not particularly prepared for small settlements. In this connection, we have already proposed legislation to help these small settlements, to have a professional background for a professional preparation, or to have a budgetary resource that gives them the opportunity to take immediate action and what to do in such a case. But I would add that, in connection with such events, such as lightning floods, there is also a need for immediate redeployment of the right infrastructure, such as drainage ditches, because there are a lot of technical standards that cannot handle these climatic changes. So we can say that even if there are sources of tender available, which we know are very cumbersome, very bureaucratic, it is still impossible in many cases to meet these tasks, and this carries very, very serious risks. I will hardly have time to talk in these short 30 minutes about another important area that my fellow Members have mentioned, and this is the question of transport and transport policy. And now, too, I do not consider it the most important to attack and criticize the current government, because the same criticisms can almost automatically be applied to governments before 2010, but my fellow Members of the Government, where is the transport strategy promised for long and long years? Where's the national bus industry? Where is the establishment of a transport network and a transport system that would really favour public transport over individual transport? Unfortunately, we don't see any trace of that. We can see that such restructurings have been carried out in relation to companies supplying public transport, but they have not brought us closer to the development of a sustainable Community transport system. It is quite clear that there is also a timetable for immediate action here, and I would add: a few years ago, when I, together with opposition groups, was involved in this as an expert, we developed a proposal for a transport strategy, even if I don't say it by name, I don't want to cause him any trouble, and the pro-government politician in your ranks said that he would agree perfectly with this, but he doesn't have the political power to enforce it. So there is, in consultation with professional organisations, a transport strategy for years before you, unfortunately you have failed to implement it. And we can also see the state of the bus park, the bus fleet, of public transport and the fact that no action is being taken to meet the challenges that are coming. And I think that Mr Aradski has also underlined that he agrees that transport is the second largest emission of pollutants, and that in this respect, too, there is a huge importance for immediate and rapid political action. I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that, in particular, there are measures to be taken immediately in relation to the epidemiological situation. We will be discussing this later, for example, about avar burning, which is a very serious component of air pollution, not in 2021, my fellow Members, but to take immediate steps and take immediate measures to reduce air pollution. We know very well that air pollution in the epidemiological situation increases the risk of dangerous complications very strongly. So in this situation, we need to think about what is the fundamental direction and what is the fundamental change of strategy, with which we all need to redesign our lives at global level with the end of the epidemic, but there are some very, very important measures here that, with it, we cannot delay days. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, In fact, I am pleased that the Parliament has just received a dialogue proposal on the announcement of the climate crisis and a very similar conflict. I was a little impatient at first. So when I see Fidesz presenting a bill on the weekend and we discuss it on Monday and then we vote on it on Tuesday, then this three-quarters year slip between submission and getting on the agenda is somewhat frustrated, frankly, but, ultimately, in the epidemic, when there is an emergency, you may understand it better, perhaps a large part of society will understand why it is important and how important the emergency that has arisen due to climate change is. Perhaps now, in these two parallel emergencies, we can find the similarities and differences and the common reasons on which both can be traced. Obviously, it is similar that both emergencies force mankind to change their lifestyles, which is actually right in some sense, and some of our patterns of behaviour will be easier to throw away, which have prevented the fight against climate change and the adaptation to new climatic conditions, but there are also very serious differences, of course. One: the epidemic threat is a very acute problem, a relatively rapid thing, measured on a historical scale, but even in a person's life; hopefully we will get through it in a few months. And while climate change is also a very rapid process in the life of the individual, measured historically, especially on a land-historic scale, it is a longer time span, but if you look at what is more dangerous, then I fear that it is the climate crisis and the associated ecological crisis that is far more dangerous to human life, to human civilization. We see how serious a panic has been caused by the coronal virus epidemic for good reason, and it is very right that the societies of most countries on Earth are mobilizing very serious forces to defend themselves. Unfortunately, we do not see this heat in relation to the climate crisis and the fight against the ecological crisis, the crisis management, while, if we look at the numbers only, here in Hungary, the coronal virus epidemic has taken an average of 7 deaths a day in the last month, and now there are more than 200 deaths, which is a huge number, tragic, and unfortunately will be much higher, but if we look at how many people's lives are shortened by climate change greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution in Hungary on an annual basis, then we see that it is responsible for 12 800 deaths, so only air pollution causes the deaths of 35 people a day. [[14.30]] The fact is that the ecological crisis that manifests itself most noticeably in climate change has the same effect on epidemics, global epidemics that have previously been much less intense. WHO already said in 2003 that, I quote, the change in the spread of infectious diseases is probably due to climate change. We also know that in Hungary there have been viruses, diseases that have never come up before, think about West Nile fever, malaria, Usutu virus, Chikungunya fever, Dengue fever, Zika virus. The mosquitoes carrying them are typically the Korean mosquito, tiger mosquito or zebra mosquito, or the Asian bush mosquito, the latter has developed and expands a massive population in Hungary. This causes the fever in the West Nile, which causes the disease with West Nile fever, in which 225 people were ill last year, 39 of them were hospitalized, and 15 died in West Nile fever in Hungary. So we can see that even these tiny branchings pose serious dangers to us, but there have been many other tragedies and cataclysms associated with the climate crisis in recent years. If we look around a little bit, we look back in time, the heat waves have taken so many victims! Last year, for example, in the Netherlands, a country of 17 million, there was a heat wave responsible for 400 deaths. In 2018, in Berlin, a city of three and a half million, 490 people died due to repeated heat waves, but in 2015 in Hungary in five heat waves, which lasted for a total of 35 days, 1,800 of our typically elderly or sick countrymen died, people who could have lived for years in better or worse health conditions. In 2003, which was one of the worst in the history of heat waves in Europe, 70,000 people in Western Europe lost their lives as a result. Last year, we saw the temperatures of 50 degrees in India, Australia, where forest and bush fires were set on fire in areas of unprecedented size, causing a total of 417 deaths, but last year in China, 30 firefighters died in a forest fire, and in 2018 91 people died in Greece due to forest fires. In 2017 in Portugal 62. In 2016, severe fires in Indonesia destroyed the lives of 100,000 people. And at that time we had not yet talked about droughts and floods, which we know about in Hungary, and we know more and more, and which, combined, result in hunger, which we thought could be overcome a decade or two ago here on earth, affecting an ever wider circle, taking on more and more depressing proportions. In 2018, 820 million people were starving on this planet. This is, therefore, the climate crisis, the ecological crisis which is much more serious on the scale than the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, which has also imposed very drastic restrictions from all well-spoken, responsible governments, and in this, the Government of Hungary is basically in the right direction, even if there are very massive deficiencies in crisis management. So, this climate crisis right here on our necks is here with us; it's more serious than the emergency that the government has confirmed with a special legal order, and which, through regulation governance, is actually threatening democracy through a delegation law. The climate crisis is a more serious threat, threatening the entire human civilization, and yet we do not propose introducing a special legal order for this reason. We are only suggesting that the responsible action should finally begin after ten years or decades of doing nothing. So let's look at what concrete action should be taken, what steps must be taken, according to the Dialogue bill. Allow me not to evaluate so far the packages responding to the government's climate crisis separately, as there are so few, so weak, what Viktor Orbán announced a month or two ago, that I will address the necessary actions in a few points. I have to say in advance that 14 points of the specific areas of action are included in the dialogue bill, of which two have been affected by the government measures that have been taken so far. But let us look at what goals should be achieved in Hungary, so that we can look the sons and daughters of other countries in the eye with a good conscience, and that we can look our own children and grandchildren in the eye with a good conscience when they ask what you have done to deal with the climate crisis, the ecological crisis. On the one hand, ambitious targets must be set. The goals that the European Union has set itself are close to what really enables us to tackle the ecological crisis, but in this regard Hungary's commitments are unfortunately undeservingly modest. So, while the bill envisages a 55 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, the Hungarian government has only committed 40 percent in total. When we say that at least 35% of the final energy consumption has to be obtained from renewable energy, the Hungarian government has unfortunately made only a 21 percent commitment compared to this. You don't really see a government document on the decline in energy use, but that's probably the key to all of it. Here for the next ten years we want to see a 30 percent decrease in consumption. This could lead to the real climate neutral operation of the Hungarian economy and society by 2050. This is one of the things that I am glad that the government and the governing parties seem to support now, but we do not forget that for months they have blocked the EU's common objective of climate neutrality in 2050. Now, let us go through the points that are necessary to achieve these goals, which are one step more ambitious. The first is a good news, if we consider it; this is the area where the government's actions meet expectations, namely the closure of coal and lignite plants. Let us say that this is not exactly what we imagined, so when we tabled this bill last summer, we saw that Lőrinc Mészáros, or Viktor Orbán, was practically responsible for the 6th of Hungary's CO2 emissions, and the Mátra Power Plant in his hands. Since then, the Fidesz government has successfully bought back from taxpayers' money these tens of thousands of power plants, perhaps hundreds of billions of dollars in losses. Of course, Lőrinc Mészáros had good money for it after he had already taken tens of billions of forints out of this business. So it's not exactly how we imagined it, Mother. It's not the kind of horse I wanted, but at least it's a horse, and let's not look at your teeth as a gift horse. Let us be glad that they are indeed supposed to stop firing coal and lignite, and indeed, as the bill says, we must take account of labour market and social aspects. As far as the second point is concerned, we are far from doing so well. Measures limiting the use of wind energy should be abolished, but we continue to see that the Fidesz government has made the construction of wind power plants impossible in Hungary with infinitely transparent arguments. Obviously, we haven't been able to buy the right companies for the Fidesz-close oligarchs, and that's why they're not pouring state money into it yet. The situation is changing with regard to solar systems. There, we have already managed to buy out the companies and find the friends oligarchs who can start solar power investments in Hungary. But again, we didn't want a horse like that. We would like it to be a decentralised energy system if households could themselves produce a large part of the energy used, so that household solar panels should be promoted, the fee for products acting as penalty tax abolished, which is three times the rate in European countries and reduced the VAT of 27 per cent to 5 per cent. Unfortunately, our proposals on this point have not yet been heard. Then, perhaps the most important thing in the fight against climate change in Hungary: as in most countries, the energy efficiency of households needs to be improved. So when you're talking about cuts in bills, you don't have to set an official price, which is higher than the world market price since then, and by cheating voters, consumers, you're cheating more money out of your pockets than if you didn't even introduce this price ceiling, but what you need to do is limit consumption, help reduce consumption, don't have to use as much energy for heating, cooling, and not to mention living in healthier homes, for whom a quarter of them now live in unhealthy housing conditions, and most Hungarian families live in non-energy-efficient homes and apartments. [[14.40]] Even at a time like this, when we tell you to stay home, it is worth considering who stays at home, who can heat their apartment, the walls are not moldy, the roof does not get wet, or there is no suffocating heat in the summer, as every year as many people die in their unheated homes as the victims of a coronal virus epidemic in the last month. So with this, even for humane reasons, we have to do something. In comparison, Fidesz has fought very hard to channel the European Union's support for energy efficiency renovations to the public, to people, to families and to households, to friendly companies, to friends of John Lazarus and to other friendly entrepreneurs. Similarly, the energy efficiency improvements of domestic businesses, which, for the time being, represent a pitiful amount of less than 40 billion, according to the government's plans, are expected to go back to friendly companies over the next decade, thus distorting the market, rather than serving the most efficient way of boosting the economy, which is also in a greener, more sustainable direction. Then there's the setting up of the green bank, which, let me be honest, we moved from the 2010 Fidesz programme. We were very happy that there were green ideas at Fidesz. At the time, they said that 80,000 new jobs could be created with the help of a green turn and that they would create a green bank to finance this. Orbán has promised this several times over the last ten years, but we still do not see any trace of this. Now remains the green government bond, which does not involve new money in the system, but only environmentally friendly savers can have some kind of beauty patch, something good that they can contribute to the government's very, very weak and poor quality climate protection programmes. Similarly, it would be important to set up a green procurement system, but Fidesz did not talk about it. When we see people buying cars for more than 80 billion, explosive vehicles at the height of 2019-2020, in the middle of the climate crisis, we have to say that this is at least a long way to go. Then there would be a very serious policy work on beans, as virtually all public policy regulations should be rethinked in relation to the climate crisis, the solution to the ecological crisis, from waste management to transport policy, water, agriculture and forestry, land use and urban development to the tax system. Unfortunately, in recent years, if public policy regulations have been touched anywhere, it has taken things in a much more unsustainable direction. When we see what they touch, say, during an epidemic, during an emergency, what comes to their mind, for example, about transport, when we think about how isolation could be maintained and how it could be ensured between people who want to travel or are forced to travel, then the Fidesz government remembers to make car parking free, while the dialogueary Mayor Gergely Christmas reminds Budapest to make the public bicycle system virtually free and to designate new bicycle routes that make cycling in the city more efficient and secure. You can see the difference in perspective. Indeed, this may not depend on publishing the climate crisis, as Budapest has announced, and the government is not willing to do so for the time being, but there is a fundamental difference of attitude between green-thinking politicians in the opposition as a whole, and, well, how should I put it, politicians thinking of anti-green or very brown, rusty-moving think tanks for Fidesz and KDNP representatives. Tax types should be introduced, the system of public burdens should be adapted in such a way that it actually enforces the principle of the polluter pays. Viktor Orbán talks about this, and he always thinks that someone else should pay in another country, but when it comes to his multi-boyfriends or his oligarch friends and their extra money, plus taxes, it is somehow not so open to the principle of the polluter pays. However, one of the keys to economic enforcement or incentive for adaptation would be to introduce a carbon tax, i.e. the more carbon dioxide that is produced in the course of its economic activity, the higher the tax burden on it. But such an important new tax cannot be excise duty on kerosene, as it is nonsense that what is heavily taxed in road transport is not taxed in aviation, which is much more polluting, at the moment. And this crisis, caused by the coronal virus, may also help us realize that we do not have to fly to other European cities every other weekend, that it may be more worthwhile to discover our narrower environment first, and only rarely and in really necessary cases to travel longer. We don't need so many planes, we don't need that much burnt kerosene. That's the direction the kerosene tax drives our thinking. When life goes back to normal, there is no need to return to the same place, it is not a problem if air transport loses some of its importance and instead shifts it to rail or other environmentally friendly modes of transport, changing people, the public. Then social policy programmes should be implemented within the framework of the Climate Law, which will apply climate justice aspects. For in all such major social transitions, the most vulnerable, the most difficult, the poorest, the most vulnerable social groups will be most likely to be harmed, they will bear the burden of crisis or transformation if we do not pay particular attention to supporting them. This is what we are seeing now in the crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. This is especially because the insensitive crisis management of Fidesz does not want to pay attention to the most difficult people and to those who lose most or all of their income now, while this is the most important aspect, because there is a policy to serve and to serve those who have no other servants. This is why the Dialogue also recommends considering and introducing the crisis management proposal for the basic income in the event of an emergency caused by the Crown Virus. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Again, Congressman. Okay, well, then you're not that brave. For example, we need basic income for crisis management in a crisis to help the poorest, most vulnerable third of society, the millions of people who now have virtually no income left. And the same provision, the same concern, the same humane approach will be needed during the great social transition, leading us to the climate-neutral economic and social order. Then we would have to conduct social campaigns that do not inspire hatred, but a responsible, moderate way of life. It seems that every year there are 100-150 billion forints of government propaganda. As a result, it is particularly charming when our Fidesz fellow Member János Bencsik problems the propaganda machine that drives people away. Well, maybe you should sweep around your own house first. It is the same task to create a complex programme of climate adaptation, to achieve it in virtually all public policy areas. Last but not least, it might have been worth starting with, since the institutions' guarantees of good functioning need to be restored, strengthened, tuning up the institutional system that can enforce environmental protection, climate protection and the management of the ecological crisis. Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group, has already said that there are four countries in the world, two African countries, Saudi Arabia, leading environmental destruction, and Hungary, where there is no independent Ministry of Environment. It is quite specific when the Ministry of Innovation and Technology is responsible for environmental and climate protection on behalf of the government. Maybe it would be nice to clean up around the institution's house and the destruction the Orbán government has done over the past ten years to reverse it. And there's an extra point in addition to the 14 that we haven't written yet, because it's so self-evident, and maybe a little different track, because we shouldn't do something here, we shouldn't do it. [[14.50]] In particular, we should not build a nuclear power plant that is so dangerous, expensive and not neutral, which is demonstrably unnecessary to fight climate change, because, as Benedek Jávor, former MEP of Dialogue, has shown in a study, an energy mix with a safe, efficient and declining energy demand, which can be achieved by 2050 in the framework of the energy road map, which does not rely on nuclear power plants to any extent. So, Paks II. In addition to being infinitely expensive, it is delivering the country to Putin Russia in both energy and political terms, it is not even necessary, and all the other claims are lies, as many countries make the transition to climate neutral without nuclear power. If we look at the chances of starting something out of this climate bill, then I'm a little skeptical, because the tickle-tickle game that has been going on with opposition proposals over the last three quarters of the year doesn't show that Fidesz is really committed to meaningful, effective action, but shows that they want to buy time. But if I can base myself on the words of our fellow Member János Bencsik, then within a few weeks, as you said, a climate protection law will be drawn up, so I am curious after that, because the fact is that Viktor Orbán said very frankly in his famous leaked sentence when he said: "Don't listen to what I say, but what I do; because you can't follow what he says." Just a few quotes. If they had to guess who it came from and what year it was, they'd have a hard time. Orbán said both in 2019. The Prime Minister also said that action against climate change is left-wing mischief; and the President of Fidesz said that anyone who thinks climate change is a communist trick is not normal. Within a year, expressing such self-controversial opinions from a commentator in the field would be quite deplorable, but he is the president of Fidesz, the team's brain, the current Prime Minister of Hungary, although many of them rightly contest his legitimacy. So here we are, and the fact is that as a dialogue, a green left party, as has been the case so far, he is still trying, with concrete proposals and political pressure, to get the honourable pro-government fellows to listen to reason or even listen to their own fellow Member, because I have to say and this is another reason why I am unsure that, listening to János Bencsik's speech, I did not know for a moment whether there really is a Fidesz government in this country, because the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction is arguing with the Secretary of State of the Fidesz Government. One says that we evil opponents here are confronting each other with the protection of the environment, the management of the climate crisis and economic development. [[Lőrinc Nacsa keeps interrupting.]] And János Bencsik says that the economic development that can only comprehend development in the growth sense, as unfortunately the Fidesz government does, is completely inadequate to make human life better, beautifuler, more complete, and that we must not pursue development in the sense of growth. Economic and social development, in the sense of non-growth, is the least opposed to climate protection, climate response, the fight that we must continue to tackle the ecological crisis. So I would like to see the position of János Bencsik triumph and not the position of the Fidesz government triumph, but we do not have any illusions, because we have seen that there has been one before, not only in Fidesz, but in the person of Zoltán Illés, a member of government, who was truly committed to sustainability, to the green idea. Well, we saw that his career in the government ended badly. And we also know that it is no coincidence that János Bencsik does not take up a government position, because he could now express his own and otherwise very valid thoughts about the climate crisis, but as a member of the government, I am afraid that he can no longer do so. So there is some hope, because we have seen that Viktor Orbán is not handling emergencies very well [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. Nacsa Lawrence smacks his hands together.]] when that famous ominous Friday morning said that there was no way that school closure would be closed. [[Ferenc Koncz: We didn't close... the president's ringing.]] Then, after the seven-party discussion, Viktor Orbán himself said late in the evening that, okay, we will close the gates, and we will continue with distance education and digital instruction. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's right!]] What happened then was that his own fractions rebelled against him; so mutiny, dear Fidesz, KDNP colleagues. If they are serious about what they have said here, then they must rebel against their own government; then they must vote in favour of the bill of dialogue. And then they can really force their own government to take the steps that allow effective, effective action in the climate crisis. So I urge you to make a responsible decision for your constituents and future generations, and have some courage, have the guts to contradict Viktor Orbán. I think it's possible, I don't think it's gonna be a major loss, so get it together. I'm rooting for you, and with me, the vast majority of the country's public opinion, so go Fidesz, go KDNP! Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-21-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say that I am speaking exclusively to Hungarian citizens, because I refuse to speak to empty benches. There are currently two KDNP members, a total of four pro-government representatives, in the room, and, from what I can see, two state ministers. Where is János Áder, President of the Republic? If there is such an important green agenda in the Hungarian Parliament, why didn't you honor us? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where is Hadházy?]] Where are the responsible ministers? Oh, there are no responsible ministers. There are no ministers in this country who feel responsible for climate change, green affairs, a specific problem. If the operation of the Hungarian Parliament is so important, where is the Prime Minister? Where are you, brave warriors in the Fidesz? Where are the 133 of you, the brave people, when it comes to such an important agenda? Because I don't see you here on the pastor. [[Ferenc Koncz intervenes.]] In addition, please tell me what this snow and fun is about here in the Hungarian Parliament, because I'm not sure I understand. For ten years, opposition motions will be killed by you in committee. You won't make it through the committee section. Even if we break into it, it will not make it to the Hungarian plenary session! Now you're here, and these two climate proposals have been passed on to this plenary. They told me for 30 minutes. [[To the pro-government representatives:]] You've been talking to us for 30 minutes, and you've been talking to us for 30 minutes, and you've been telling us that you're not going to support these proposals. They talked about a lot of things. They said these two proposals were outdated. Then why have they waited for months? Why didn't they take her to plenary right away? So you can tell me, I don't know, how many months later, I'm sorry, is this an outdated pandemic in the middle of a pandemic? It's pretty transparent, though. They tell me that this is creation protection, and that we are the lefty libs, who are progressive and political, and how different you are with creation protection to this issue, and then you ask us to support the government's creation protection. I went on the Internet, and I looked at the fact that this creation protection is exactly what it means. On creation.hu I found that, with a Christian perspective, environmental protection is in fact creation protection. So what's the difference now? Do all religions mean different things to the environment? 'Cause I'll report it, then we're in big trouble. But seriously, get up and tell me why you're sharing the world with left-wing libsi environmentalists and creationists. Well, they really didn't get to the point that this whole global crisis is all about, and we can only solve it if we understand each other and we can act together? ! Well, it's really so important for you to have the power to come in here with two KDNPs and hand out the country that you're the lefty libs, but what are the creators? ! By the way, you know what? Then do it. Let's call it creation protection. Let's call it anything. Let's call it, I don't know, green apples or yellow lemons, but let's do it, Mr. Secretary, that's my suggestion. But then do something about it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's pretty weak.]] And by the way, it is deeply outrageous, because I know what this game is about, that tonight in public TV, your voice is going to be the voice of the news again, which most of the Hungarian people are reaching, and they are going to tell you how green you are, how constructive you are, and, by the way, this is where you are going to close this case. Here is the climate crisis, one aspect of which is the pandemic that we are experiencing, and KDNP and Fidesz are messing with the fact that they are killing opposition motions in open plenary because you really want to make a nuclear lobby, they want to buy a Mátrai power plant from Lőrinc Mészáros, and they want to report me to the end because it's an unfaithful treatment, and I don't know what kind of things they want to do. [[15.00]] This is completely outrageous. You know, I was talking about the climate crisis ten years ago, when I started politics. Many of us who are here on the opposition side, in different parties and in different places we were together at the time and thought the same thing, we still think the same thing about this issue. Back then, you know, no one's ever talked about the climate crisis. They said that yes, yes, these young people are cute, what good things they talk about, let's talk about the important, the important things. But today, we're all talking about it. Some say climate change, some say climate change, some say climate change, some say climate crisis, others say climate change, the fifth say global warming. But the whole world is talking about it. It is fateful and fateful that we are talking about this in the middle of a pandemic in the Hungarian Parliament, because decades earlier, scientists who you have looked down on, who you have crossed, said that indeed, one of the accompanying phenomena of the climate crisis will be exactly this, that new pathogens will appear, old pathogens will return, and there will be pandemics and pandemics, because because because of globalisation, we are so connected to each other that if something happens and we are not sufficiently protected, it will reach the other half of the world in 30 seconds. Others said our great ancestors, green politicians, what to spend a lot of money on in the 21st century. In the first century: education, health and social affairs. Now let those who think here, in the Hungarian Parliament, that there is no need to spend on education in Hungary, no need to spend on health care and no need to spend on social protection. These three areas should be the most important support for crisis measures. Instead, while I'm talking here, there's a genocide in this country, and cancer patients are being deported from various hospitals. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] Yes, that's right, Congressman. That's right, cancer patients are being deported! (Lőrinc Nacsa: Shame on you!) It's just that in my practice, I get signals, starting with the brain surgery man, everyone writes the letters to the woman who's going to have cancer surgery. The man with thrombosis, who can't get on his feet, can't do anything, gets out of medical supervision. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Shame on you!) People are scared. Some people don't know where to go home because they don't have anyone to take care of them at home. What about these? And digital education? We remember what your first action was. They threatened the teachers, and now they're being bullied. It's education! And third, the social issue. Now, that's the bottom of it all, that they're gonna take you, and people who lose their jobs, their livelihoods, they can't count on anything. You, KDNP, who once in the summer have figured out that you will be the new Green Party and joined the plastic-free July in August, tell me when you will encourage the government to have education, health and social protection in the centre. Without it, there is no climate protection, there is no green policy, there is nothing, there is no life on this planet if these three areas are not here. Scientists are signaling us right now anyway. You have already indicated in the debate, for the benefit of citizens, that you will vote off opposition motions. What really happened was that they didn't kill these proposals on the committee, but they brought them up to plenary to kill them here so they could tell us in public TV, where we can't even get our feet in, how green you are. So, scientists are signaling right now, and they're saying that this coronal virus is not a one-time virus, but it's a story that can come with a lot and a lot more if we don't change certain things. A food crisis can come with geopolitical tensions and very serious social problems. With all due respect, are you ready to change anything you've done terribly wrong in the last ten years? Because now there is this phenomenon, the pandemic, the pandemic, but there are also temperature records, forest fires, bush fires, floods and tides, glaciers, icebergs, as well as the entire climate crisis that existed before. I think it is very unfair that in such a situation you are making a nuclear propaganda in the Hungarian Parliament, just because the nuclear lobby has pocketed the entire Fidesz and KDNP, and we are accused of being too progressive, and they are telling us that we are only environmentalists, and you are concerned with creation protection. Well, then, let the entire Hungarian Parliament deal with creation protection. We are told that this proposal is not timely. Well, why wait months? That's one of them. On the other hand, I would like to rebut what was said that János Áder did what we told him to do. On the one hand, János Áder is invisible. János Áder has not communicated on Facebook since 2014. János Áder, President of Hungary, travels between Sándor Palace, Magyar Television and Kossuth Radio, so propaganda and exotic countries. He doesn't talk to us, he doesn't talk to us, unlike signing all the crap they put in front of him. This is János Áder, so please don't refer to János Áder, and János Áder doesn't paint green but green, and János Áder went to the UN climate summit in New York without telling us what he was going to represent there. In addition, they said that a political battlefield would be a serious issue if you were to declare a climate crisis here. Excuse me, if there's a battlefield in this world, it's what the planet and the future of mankind will be. Do you know what the picantria of this fight is? That we're on the same side. Listen to me, because there's no point in talking about government and opposition in this matter, there's only human and human. A man who lives on the northern hemisphere of the Earth and on the south, a man who is exploited and exploited, a man who is on the government or in opposition, a man who is rich or poor, a woman or a man, a creativeist, an environmentalist or none. It doesn't matter. Only the future of humanity is at stake on this issue. And the tougher goals have to happen because time is running out. For the next ten years, that question will be settled. You guys are always campaigning on how many children you have and how many grandchildren I'm not gonna be in this race, but I do know that in my last hour, I'm gonna think that you've done everything you can to turn this thing around and leave a viable future, a viable country, a viable planet for our offspring. Be kind and join this fight, because this is not a question that you can discuss and resolve in propaganda. This question cannot be solved by propaganda. The last ten years in this respect are a shame, a shame, what the government has done. This green counter-revolution itself, which you have done here in this country. This really is a scandal. One thing has been said many times by my learned colleagues, yes, that they have abolished the Green Ministry, that they have made the Green Authorities unfit to do any meaningful work. And the flagship investment law, which would have been the right thing to do if it had been properly abolished, was moved forward so that people couldn't even have the opportunity to protect nature and the environment as they had before. With the forest law, they made it easier to cut their heads, destroy the trees, destroy the trees. And then there's the other one, what they didn't do. You campaigned in 2010, with the annual renewal of 10 percent of the housing stock, I do not know how many jobs you will create. I remember the program they had on the 10th. I don't think Fidesz has had an election program since then. But practically 90 billion are missing. I remember that János Lázár was the minister when they lobbied in Brussels until they took 90 billion out of the pockets of Hungarian taxpayers and gave it to public institutions for energy efficiency investments instead of retail investments, because they could steal better from it. Because if they give it to families, it's decentralized, they can't steal from it. They made a deal out of it, gave it to the public institutions. What about clean air? Even the virus spreads better when the air is dirty. Here in Budapest, there are not so many people, not only because of physical proximity, but also because the air is worse. There is a statement that the citizens of Budapest are dying ten years earlier than others, the air is so bad, but ten years ago there is definitely an infringement procedure against Hungary because they have not done anything with the concentration of particulate matter. At this time, the mayor was given by Fidesz-KDNP. I'm asking you why you did all this. In this regard, this debate is indeed a parade. Every one of their speakers told me how important it is to make the atom, the atom, the atom work. So listening to you, I really think I'm in the '70s. I really think so. Mr Bencsik, do you remember Hungary divided into three parts? Yeah, I yelled at Moscow because the Moscow guys dealed me, but you've dealt with other people. West company and Moscow, butchers and other oligarchs. They practically took apart Hungary and taxpayers' money. To this day, I do not know that for the Rothschild study in which you calculated that this would be worth it to the Hungarian taxpayers, otherwise this is not what the study contains, how much we paid. To this day, we do not know what kind of lobbyists have crossed this rule in Brussels, and to this day you should not forgive Viktor Orbán for stabbing his own government in the back, because when he went to Moscow in 2014, he said that he was going to negotiate economic issues and came home with the plane to sign the Paks deal with the minister. That's what happened. The government was also informed of this whole situation in hindsight. You now claim that by 2030, Paks II. It's going to produce a thousand. No, you won't. He's in a huge hurry. If you build this nuclear power plant by 2030, I'm crying to you not to do it, because I'm telling you, we're really gonna die together if there's a problem here. Don't do it! [[15.10]] I see them stealing the money, I see how they're getting it out of him, but watch out for nuclear safety. And since they're doing so much nuking, why isn't the Minister of Süli here? He's been here every day, paying attention, he's here every day. Where is he? ! Where is he? ! [[State Secretary Pál Kovács turns to the Member.]] And who are you? Are you the Minister of Süli? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And who are you?]] Well, it's not. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, there's a man who's been called this country because he's the minister in charge of Paks II. Why isn't he here? Why isn't he here? [[Interjection from the ranks of the ruling party.]] Then don't do nukes... Don't ask Ákos Hadházy to account for us. He's not the Paks II minister. In addition, the national energy and climate plan submitted to Brussels is a disgrace, with a 21-percent renewable ratio for 2030 and a minimum 40-percent emission reduction, and you say that we are climate champions. Do you know what the truth is? ! The truth is, Fidesz and KDNP still want to live off the collapse of the socialist industry. It's the truth. But I have some very bad news for you. The fact that things are basically turning around here is a change. With propaganda and such misconception, this situation that we are in cannot be resolved. We need a social programme, we need health care, we need education, we need green light. One word, like a hundred, if that's all you want to do, it's sooner or later for you, but the coffee's off. Good, 'cause new times are coming.
u2020-04-21-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó from the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-81	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't want to be involved in the debate, but I would like to deny a statement that I call the urban green legend many times. In what capacity am I doing this? As a politician committed to climate protection, who is aware that climate protection objectives can only be properly addressed through a combination of nuclear energy and renewable green energy. As you know, there are committed countries such as Finland, Switzerland, Belgium, Sweden, France. I'm just saying the ones where nuclear energy is decisive. What was the statement? The claim was that nuclear energy is not, in fact, pure energy from the point of view of CO2 emissions, because we need to look at the whole life cycle. Well, I'm looking at the World Energy Council's data and investigation in this direction, an independent organization that's been operating since 1923 with 94 members. It compared direct emissions and life cycle emissions to ten types of energy. Well, in the case of solar energy, the direct zero, the life cycle is between 40 and 100 tons of energy produced by a gigawattor. In the case of nuclear power, 10-40 tonnes per gigawatt watch. So, based on the life cycle, nuclear energy is clearly more favourable. Moreover, I would add that the European Union only accepted Paks as a proven 7,35 percent return because otherwise it would have been an unacceptable state aid. Thank you. [[Antal Csárdi: What is the life cycle? Is the decommissioning part of this?]]
u2020-04-21-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. Next two-minute Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP.
u2020-04-21-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind is right that the environmental issue is not propaganda, he uses the environmental issue exclusively for Facebook live. You are accusing us of genocide, and I absolutely refuse to do so. You're a professional political provocator who climbed into Parliament on the back of a party and then betrayed them in a sneaky way; we don't accept any lectures from you in this respect. I would say to the anarchist faction that the basic income has failed everywhere they tried to introduce it, and we can't accept it from here on out. We would like to send a message to the Gyurcsány Party that Lajos Oláh is absolutely right: from the Rózsadomb there really is no case for the Hungarian people. He said that; well, beyond the glass mountain or the empty bottles, Ferenc Gyurcsány's house really does not show the problem of Hungarian people. Action on nature conservation and environmental protection is on this side, and softening and balloons are on that side. We must not defend nature as a common cause in words, not in political pamphlet and not in verbal amok run, but in real action, and we will not be able to begin to debate this issue in substance until you have denied any results in every speech that the government has achieved so far. As long as we are being lectured on this, and until in any way they acknowledge the results that we have achieved over the past ten years, we cannot debate this in substance. You can make criticisms, you can make improvements, you can say that the current measures are insufficient, we are open to new measures. The Prime Minister announced the climate action plan two months ago for a reason, but not to recognise any action, no result, what has happened in the past ten years is not acceptable. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2020-04-21-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a little stunned to sit here all the time, and I thought, I think, a tale from one of the great Russian writers, where Peterke was thinking about how big he was going to do in his life, and then he decided to save the lumberjack from the bear, save his mother from the wolf, and his grandmother from the lurking fox. Then someone from the family comes and asks Peterke to come and fetch me water, and then Peterke answers that I'm thinking of a great deal of thought, so that I don't turn my time into water. Well, that's kind of how I've felt around here lately. All kinds of huge things, huge accusations were made here by the opposition side, while if you get into it, otherwise you can get into social media, because a lot of things can be easily read from there. Otherwise, I have to say that there have been parts of the opposition side that I agree with. For example, I agree with Erzsébet Schmuck that solar energy should be used mostly on rooftops, we should use it there, but I did think of a lot of other things. The degree in speaking was good because I am sure that an engineer thinks differently about such an issue than a lawyer. It's not because either one of them would beat the other, but I'm curious that Wind Bernadett can tell you the difference between neutron and neutrino. I'm just suggesting that it's interesting because it's so high... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm not a lawyer, I'm an economist!]] I know you don't, so maybe we shouldn't talk about this. And I have such a big problem when I see reason, because I do, because these are important questions. This is a big problem from this point of view, so in this sense I feel a little bad about the previous period. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Mrs. Erzsébet Schmuck will have the floor.
u2020-04-21-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given that Mr András Aradszki is still in the room, I would like to ask him a question because he may be leaving later and he cannot answer me. You spoke in your comment about the fact that anyone who wants to announce a climate crisis is talking about this, with such a neoliberal approach, and basically wants political benefits. I was there last year at the climate summit on 23 September, which was convened by the Secretary-General of the United Nations because he wanted to declare a climate crisis and said that the nice words were over, that action was needed. At the same climate summit, Pope Francis sent a message, and the Holy Father said that there was a problem, there was a very big problem, the climate crisis is accelerating, and yes, we must declare a climate crisis. I would like to ask you: do you think that the Holy Father is a liberal, left-wing liberal, and that he wants political gain? I'd like to know what you, as a representative of the KDNP, think of the Holy Father. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They don't like the Holy Father. Applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-04-21-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2020-04-21-89	Thank you for the floor. So, the thing is, the reason you don't support the announcement of the climate crisis is because, for example, you should make the next changes right now. The recently adopted national energy strategy will not include the renovation of 1.4 million rural family and board houses for energy efficiency, who, on the other hand, would very much look forward to this. [[15.20]] They have said, and I quote, that there are rural dwellings today, even if we call it the Kádár Cube, whose renovation would cost more than the total value of residential buildings. In other words, these buildings will only be upgraded by credit, there will be no national energy efficiency programme, but these people will not have the money, their share. So you've all given up on these people. And the other is that in the middle of the epidemic, the first to be rescued from the farm was Lőrinc Ripper. They took themselves and practically bought the Matra Force with our money. This is Hungary's most polluting power plant, it accounts for almost 14 percent of the total emissions, but all emissions from the electricity sector account for half of that, this is the power plant. What you're saying is that you're gonna want to turn this into some super-duper green power plant. Where are the plans? Give it to me! Show me. They didn't show me. What's going to be there? What about the Matra? ! The third: the secrecy of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was just brought here. Chinese project from Chinese credit, according to Chinese interests, ordered by the Chinese Communist Party. I wish in this country there were railway lines that could be used, good, fast, comfortable, and take us from point A to point B in a quick time. Why don't you do that? ! If it were a climate crisis, I wouldn't be building the railroad in Belgrade, but here in Hungary. And there are the environmental-killing investments: the Ripper mines were recently approved in Tiszakóród, or there is the Samsung Battery Factory in Göd. Despite the protests of the locals, they're practically detaching the town from Göd, robbing the city. These wouldn't all work if you guys declared a climate crisis in this country.
u2020-04-21-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató will take the floor.
u2020-04-21-91	Honourable Congressman Ferenc Koncz, I would like to tell you that, although we are colleagues, and I am a physics teacher myself, I think that does not make either of us an energy expert. However, that is not our job, honourable Member, but to take political decisions in the interests of our electorate. Of course, it would be good to have a calm debate. [[Ferenc Koncz: I agree!]] and we are all helped by some level of technical scientific training, but we have not heard a lot of professional arguments from you, and you have been personal, of course, certainly not at the level of Congressman Nacsa, who only needs to be personal on this subject most. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Congressman Raga [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] I don't know, you've thought about what the second word in the name of the second national climate change strategy means. I'll tell you, there was a first. The first was adopted by the Gyurcsány government in this Parliament, in 2008, by the then majority of the government. We didn't realize in the summer how important environmental problems are, or what an important problem climate change is like KDNP, we started to deal with this issue a little while ago! However, I can only pity you, Mr President, that at this early hour in the afternoon, you have only the bottles in Parliament, and that is all you can talk about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-04-21-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There have been a number of questions raised in the various comments, and let me try to reflect on these sentences in a few sentences, because if I followed the debate well, most words were not, however, about the proposals submitted, but about the sentences related to the government. [[Interventions in the lines of DK and MSZP.]] The thing is, allow me to start from what Mr President has done on the part of the united opposition and on the commitment to the environment. I think it shows the environmental commitment of the united left, by the way, that you wanted to mention and warm up the water escape project in Bős-Nagymaros, or even think about the NATO radar station, which you wanted to create at the highest point of the Mecsek, in Zengő, with significant wood cuttings, in nature conservation areas, and only thanks to the Hungarian resistance that it was possible to prevent this. The fact is, there have been many other questions. [[Intercoms, noise in the lines of MSZP and DK. The president's ringing the bell.]] "Let me also try to address these with a few sentences. Several comments affected Samsung's factory investment in Göd. Here, let me say that, in particular, in these days and these weeks, I think it is not worthwhile and it is wrong to attack an investment and to attack the necessary measures for this investment, which will protect 1500 jobs and create 2,500 new jobs. That's the question. It is about protecting 4,000 jobs, and we want to create 4,000 jobs, and the government has decided on the necessary measures, which are necessary, because such a special economic area is necessary. Moreover, the rules concern not only one settlement, the legislation applies to four settlements, besides Göd, Csomad, Sződ and Dunakeszi. In addition, I think we can all agree that the batteries that will be created in this factory are precisely linked to the debate that we are talking about here today, because electric motoring also requires batteries, and this factory will, in principle, be able to contribute to a cleaner and more livable adaptation to Hungary and Europe and climate change. We would therefore like to ask that this investment be not attacked, but rather supported and helped to protect 4 000 jobs. That's what this case is about. The other issue, which has been repeatedly raised, is that it is a Ministry of the Environment or a portfolio responsible for climate policy. I think that we have had this debate many times. We have talked about this many times, but you could see for yourself that it is a better situation than a portfolio dealing with climate policy, which deals with transport, energy, construction, EU funds, economic development, education and sustainability, it is difficult to imagine that all the areas that are related to climate change, which are necessary for climate policy, are within a wallet. Thus, not only can we talk about it, but there is also the possibility of real measures, so there is an opportunity for not only speech but also action, which can also contribute to this. So my request is to support this solution as well. Paks II. We also heard a number of comments on the subject. Let us not forget that Hungarians have been living together with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for decades. In the world, power plants are being built elsewhere, for example, in France, the old nuclear power plants are being renovated and new ones are being built, and let us not forget that Paks is already producing 35-40 percent of electricity in Hungary. So you can see from this, too, it's necessary that Paks II. be prepared and we can continue to build on nuclear technology. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that in Germany 1 kilowatt hour of electricity costs HUF 94, and in Hungary consumers pay HUF 36 for the same energy, and the competitive industry can operate only with cheap energy. So at these times, when the situation of the economy is particularly important to us, it is particularly important to be able to help economic operators with cheap energy thanks to nuclear energy. Dear Parliament, In the world, 10-15 new blocks start their operations every year, while 450 nuclear power stations are currently operating worldwide. In the European Union, half the Member States rely on nuclear energy. More than Hungary, France, Slovakia, Sweden, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Slovenia use this technology. [[15.30]] It also shows that nuclear power plants produce the most clean, carbon-free electricity in Europe. Dear Parliament, Every year, 17 million tonnes of CO2 are avoided here at Paks II. investment. You don't want to stop this. On a debate on climate policy issues, a parliamentary decision and a law debate, I simply don't think it's worth arguing that this investment should not be built to avoid 17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. Be courageous, change your position, especially the parties and representatives who call themselves green, and take the lead in this development. There is much more to talk about, but let me touch on another subject. It's a question of wind power. We have also had discussions on windy power plants many times. The situation here is that Hungary's capabilities do not come close to the winds of the Polish plain, for example, or the coastal areas of Europe. Our use of solar power plants is clearly justified and appropriate. This is why it is necessary to improve. The use of wind energy would cause many problems and many difficulties. The effects on human health, the impact on animal life, aesthetic issues, the issue of wind safety, the climate change in the Carpathian Basin justify this. The sun, we know it's going to shine. With regard to power density, allow me to say here, too, how many cubic meters of concrete, steel, copper can produce a kilowatt power, then it is the case that Paks II is twelve times more effective. investment, twelve times more efficient than otherwise building windy power plants. In addition, it can be said that EU legislation also punishes wind power plants. It is worth looking at the new EU requirement for scheduling, which makes it quite clearly difficult to use windy power plants, however, it is much harder to predict exactly how much production will happen; and we could also talk about maintenance issues, the price of technology, network requirements, much more, but there are clear and clear professional arguments for this position of the Hungarian Government. There was talk of the Mátra Power Plant. Several people have made criticisms about this. Allow me to inform you that the Hungarian government, the civilian government, is always striving, and I have also tried to talk about this expo, so that we can increase our energy security and energy sovereignty. That's why we bought back the fifth of MOL's ownership. That is why we also bought back those critical infrastructures related to energy policy and energy, such as the domestic storage of natural gas. This is also why we have decided that gas procurement is made from several sources. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] This supports the need to provide as many opportunities as possible to contribute to energy security and energy sovereignty in Hungary. Indeed, the situation is that in Hungary, the Mátra Power Plant and its related lignite mining rights can once again be a key issue for Hungary in terms of energy sovereignty and security of supply. Even recent events may show that we may not be sure that our lives are always going as we are used to. There may be unexpected turns, when it is important to know what power plant is in domestic hands, and what kind of energy carrier is associated with it. For Hungary, it is only available on the lignite property, and it is available on the lignite property of Mátraalja. This 2,6 billion tonnes of lignite is important to be directly controlled by the state, even if, by the way, the transformation of the Mátra power plant is a key project for us, for which we ask that we do not attack, but support... [[Antal Csárdi: Let's take the lead. Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Stand at the head, Congressman, you are right to say that we would also like to preserve the jobs of the people working there in Mátra and to transform the power plant in an innovative way that will be able to provide jobs for the people living there with new technologies, gas, waste incineration, solar energy, and otherwise supply. The Mátra power plant is an important power plant, as it is a base power plant. The second largest electricity producer in the country, and as I said, has 2100 direct employees, provides the work of ten thousand people, and with family members it reaches 27 thousand people. It would be good if their jobs were not compromised by irresponsible sentences and irresponsible suggestions. Among other things, the climate and nature conservation action plan was mentioned, but I think that I have tried to explain this in detail earlier, and I will not comment on this specifically. What I would like to say in the time available is that, on the one hand, President János Áder represented Hungary at the UN Climate Summit, everyone knows and knows this well, and I would like to ask Members to attack us, but to show respect to our joint President. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] The fact that we are being abused is all right, but a common President of the Republic should be given a minimum of respect. That's one of my requests. Another thing that is not part of the debate is that spreading rumors about health is not good for anyone in this country. I would very much ask that this should not happen in this debate. [[Constant interrogations, interrogations from the opposition benches.]] The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that during the debate many questions have been raised that concern our commitment. I think that we have here, Mr Bencsik, who is a good example of the fact that this topic has not been created at all on the civilian side, and it has been an important subject for a long time. It is also worth bringing the work of President Áder here and highlighting who spoke on this issue much earlier than the vast majority of opposition politicians; and, by the way, President Sólyom did not become President of the Republic with the votes of the MSZP [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] But that would be a far-reaching question. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a preliminary speaker, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, who may be different from Politics.
u2020-04-21-95	Yeah, maybe. Thank you very much for the floor. First, I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that you should be brave and support this proposal. We have the courage to bring it forward. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It took a lot of courage!]] I want you to be brave enough to accept this. And I would like to say one more very important thing, and I would say to my fellow Member, that you do remember the particular law that you have submitted that you cannot be yelled at. It didn't mean that only the opposition couldn't be yelled at, but you couldn't. Good. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I'm sorry, but I had to say that. (Development in opposition benches. ) Don't laugh. I feel at the same time in an easy and difficult situation when I have to talk about the relationship between climate change, agriculture and the countryside, because it is clear to everyone that they are closely linked. It is not difficult to see it, because everyone knows, and because of the increase in food prices, it is in its own right to see how climate change determines not only the chances of farming, but also the prospects for farmers and the people living there. However, even this time frame would not be enough to mention all the important problems and tasks at the level of a list, and I will not do so. [[15.40]] We say that Hungary's talents are particularly favourable to agriculture, and even to quote the government's words: besides self-sufficiency, we can provide food for even ten million people. Well, in the light of the expected and ongoing consequences of climate change, this comfortable and irresponsible government contribution must be carefully rethinked, in particular in view of the historical failure of the government to not only miss the creation of the foundations of a adaptable agriculture that improves the vitality of the countryside in the last ten years, but has also taken a number of measures against it. However, the smart spending of the thousands of billions of forints that we have received from the EU since our accession could have been an unrequited opportunity, but only a reasonable, incentive regulatory system should have been established. It is unforgivable how little the government has allowed these funds to be used in the last seven years, mostly in support of the excessive enrichment of a few oligarchs, even though the prospects are brutal. Hungary is one of the least disadvantaged countries in Europe in terms of climate change. Specialized in mass production, industrial, large-scale agricultural practices, without environmental considerations, are a breeding ground for the expected risks, so that the government's narrative that we will be a larder for 20 million people can be ended, because it is good to be able to provide for ourselves in some years. Due to the rapid warming in Hungary since the 1980s, the summer medium temperature has already increased by 2 degrees Celsius, and by the end of the century it may be 4-5 degrees higher. Summer can be even dryer. Larger areas can be hit by drought, while increasing floods and rainstorms can be expected; floods can already be seen in areas where there is, in fact, little bit of a stream, and this is also able to flow. For some crops, a mean crop reduction of up to 30 per cent is expected. The causes are complex, such as floods, inland waters or droughts, even desertion, forest fires, which we already have every chance of, migration of pests that are dangerous to humans, plants and animals, which is far more dangerous than the bedbugs of Asian and African origin that have been happening for years. The spread of plant and animal species is also changing to a variety of degrees and ways, which can cause both the disruption of the food chain in natural habitats and, for example, the drastic reduction of pollinating insects. Without the latter, however, the basics of food supply are falling. Climate change already exceeds the flexibility of many of our ecosystems. While the news is about how the government wants to play the remaining state forests into its own moonyard, it is also worth hearing the sound of responsible thinkers, because unfortunately the Hungarian forests are dying, because of climate change there are many areas where foresting is not enough, but even the retention of existing stocks is in question. The water flow of surface water and the water levels of our lakes may also be significantly reduced, and some of them may even dry out, and their quality may deteriorate. As a result of previous river regulations, we have lost almost 90 percent of our price areas. At present, only 12 percent of the watercourses and lakes are ecological, and water and water habitats are the basic conditions of life and culture, especially now, at a time of climate change, when Hungary is about to dry and water will be the greatest treasure. In order to continue to produce good crops, our forests should be healthy, so that our lakes and rivers do not fade, new land use based on traditional landscape management, but modern and sustainable use of land, forest and water management, and restoration of water sites for nature conservation purposes. The government keeps talking about the success of the Hungarian countryside and agriculture, but ignores the fact that without proper regulation and support, soil productivity is only deteriorating. Climate change would require soil conservation, diversity-enhancing farming, landscape types, skilled farmers. Crisis-resistant agriculture is needed. But the problems of agriculture are not just related to climate change. It's a lot more than that. At present, industrialised agricultural production degrades the productivity, water management of our soils and operates only with significant energy and chemical use. It's expensive, it pollutes the environment and it pollutes us. Excessive use of chemicals already causes a critical reduction in pollination species. The selection of natural species and varieties still lacks due consideration of local conditions, although our gene banks can provide a rich storehouse for this. Growing technology must also be adapted to the requirements of soil renewal agriculture, because many cultures would provide adequate yield and quality even without irrigation, chemical and other agrotechnics. And we must not forget, for example, that because of the changing circumstances, we also need to rethink the animal husbandry situation. You could continue the line. The point is that agriculture must be based on ecological foundations, increase production security and reduce risk. The only way Hungarian agriculture can be crisis-resistant is for farmers to be encouraged and supported. However, the emphasis is on sustainability education; it is shifted from teaching to learning. The school adapts to the learning society, and knowledge management develops. Education on sustainability formulates key competences, provides equal opportunities, facilitates the development of local sustainability education programmes, initiates new methods of learning organisation, facilitates the exploration of resources, creates new forms of cooperation and alliances of interests, making the school a student and transforms the relationship between the school and the local society. Afraid, but I ask the question firmly: how would the great Hungarian István Széchenyi judge all of this failure of a patriotic, national government itself? Because he, listening to the word of time, did not spare his own resources to make good decisions. I think that the Orbán government would not be able to bear the comparison, just as the challenges of the present and the future are not worthy of taking on and resolving. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Tibor Bana. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that these proposals have come before us and we can argue about them, but I am already skeptical about the fact that we have discussed these two proposals for many hours. And I must say that there is a rather perverse attitude on the part of the governing parties, because the bill and the proposal for a resolution were tabled much earlier, then they were not brought to Parliament, they have just been put on the agenda, and I fear that unfortunately there will be no meaningful result of today's debate. However, I should not be wrong, as we have heard a lot of useful speeches from the opposition side, and I must also admit that János Bencsik, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, also spoke about the issue of climate protection with sufficient professional merit and a very respectable attitude. Unfortunately, however, it must also be said that this is not the general situation on the pro-government side, and at the time I was very subtle, as it is seen either by ministers, undersecretaries of state or by Fidesz Members of the Parliament with KDNPs, that it is a Bagatellizing the issue of climate change, and I will also point out what statements have been made on this subject in the past. There are many ways to approach this issue, and my fellow Members have done so in the last few hours. I am very pleased, for example, that László Varga, my socialist colleague, has also spoken about the issue that I would like to speak about; I would like to refer here to the fact that heating accounts for 75 percent of the public's overhead in Hungary. The main reason for this is that we have an ageless population of apartments in our country, and we definitely need to talk about insulation problems. On the basis of the World Economic 2019 summary, we can conclude that 30 percent of residential properties in Hungary are modern, but also 30 percent belongs to the most antiquated category, while the additional 40 percent can only be upgraded with a very high cost. [[15.50]] Why am I talking about this? Because this is a very serious environmental burden, which is true here in Budapest, in the capital, but it is especially true in the poorer rural settlements, whether it be the settlements of county seats or even the poorer villages in Hungary. As a responsible independent opposition parliamentary representative, I believe that it is essential for a modern climate strategy to increase the energy efficiency of buildings. I am very pleased that my fellow Member, Mr András Aradszki, came back to the room, as I would just like to point out that a few years ago even the government was aware of this, because in 2012 the national energy strategy for 2030 included the following sentences: the energy strategy aims to reduce the demand for heating energy in buildings by 30 percent by 2030, with building energy programmes in line with the EU targets, thus reducing domestic primary energy demand by more than 10 percent. Unfortunately, however, recently, the news was that the national energy strategy will not involve the energy efficiency renovation of nearly 1.4 million rural families and condominiums, and the reason for this was that the renovation of these housing houses, at least a significant part, would cost more than the building itself, Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki. Ladies and gentlemen, This category includes the so-called Kádár cubes, the inhabitants of which are mostly old people today, who will certainly not be able to afford to renovate on their own. I ask the government and the ruling parties to review their position in this regard. Of course, in the event of an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic, we must do our best to minimise the risks, but I think it is important to talk about various dangers that we face every day, including the climate threat. And it must also be said here in Parliament that there will be countries around the world, including in the European Union, which will make their recovery faster than climate action. This is particularly dangerous, my fellow Members, because, in the long term, climate change has had serious effects, which everyone has tried to explore within the framework of their own speech. Let me bring you another figure that suggests that over the past few years our country has not set off in the right direction in terms of climate protection policy, and that we are seriously lagging behind in terms of green energy use. According to 2018 data, the EU average in this area was 18 per cent, while in Hungary it was only 12.5 per cent, even though we were still above the EU average a few years ago. This is a very good example, Honourable Parliament, of how much Europe has gone by our side in this area as well. I am convinced that my position in international fora and in meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs has been expressed on several occasions that the European Union must set a good example in relation to climate protection. Unfortunately, this is not what we are experiencing in Hungary. The government's attitude towards climate protection is irresponsible. I would like to quote Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who said that there is no urgency for us in relation to the climate strategy for 2050, Minister said at last summer's meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, but that many similar government statements could be brought here from recent years. I think it is absolutely important to review this position, and it is a positive development that the developments in the last six months are in a slightly different direction from the previous ones in this respect. However, it would also be good to override and to overcome this argument, which seems to be a priority on the pro-government and governmental side, that the above-mentioned economic development overrides environmental and climate policy interests. It is important to underline, ladies and gentlemen, that environmental protection and economic development are not at all opposites. I think that we need to invest in education and new technologies, which will also give us economic competitive advantages, while taking steps towards a greener future. As a responsible independent opposition parliamentary representative, I am trying to represent the policy that if we switch to greener solutions in time and come up with more innovative technologies, they can bring economic benefits and thus create a greener Hungary. I'm asking you to fight for this together over the next few years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz Fideszes.
u2020-04-21-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, Congressman Gergely Arató is no longer here, just because he has just addressed certain questions here. You should not be surprised, my fellow Members, when there are so many accusations from the other side, otherwise there are so many extremely ridiculous accusations, then perhaps there is some reaction on this side, especially when you look at the numbers. I'm also a mathematics teacher, and these numbers are very interesting. What we are debating here and here is murder, and I don't know what we have been accused of, perhaps even Szél Bernadett, is about 1.4 percent of the European Union, which is what we Hungarians are responsible for. Annual CO2 emissions in the EU are much higher than in Hungary on average. We have 5.4 tonnes, some are estimated to be between 7-8 tonnes in the European Union. Otherwise, Austria, Cyprus, Ireland, Malta, Portugal and Spain are all ahead of us in this area, and 43.5 percent of the EU emissions were caused by Germany, the United Kingdom and Italy. Compared to this, if someone comes into the Hungarian Parliament and listens to our highly respected opposition fellow Members, he may feel that we are responsible for all the problems, everything is the fault of the Orbán government, and Europe runs by us in everything, and we draw the European Union back as a ballast. Well, that's something that's hard to deal with from this side. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-100	Thank you, Congressman. Aradski, Ungár, Z. Carpathian in the order; first, Congressman András Aradski.
u2020-04-21-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Erzsébet Schmuck, whom I admire, asked me to agree with the Holy Father's message to the last climate summit, which was in Madrid, so... [[Erzsébet Schmuck: In New York last September 23rd!]] New York. [[Interjection: December!]] December. I have not been able to verify this statement, Madam honourable Member, but that is a certain... [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I was there!]] I was in Marrakesh, and I didn't hear everything perfectly at the time, and you were there at the time in Marrakesh. The point is, what I want to say is that I fully agree with your Holy Father's manifestation and declaration of the Madrid peak, namely that words must be followed by actions. We have also said in the debate on today's bill and proposal for a resolution that we do not need words, but action, and that these actions can be increasingly shown by the government in the course of action, including its success on the issues raised in the climate crisis. The other thing I would like to say is that I am very sorry that there is a Member among us who has read my comment without my permission, but he did not have much use for it, because he did not accept it and said others than he could have read from me. [[Nacsa Lawrence: The Bence looked into it!]] I've been waiting until now to see if anyone's apologizing, so far, he hasn't done it. After that, I would like to say that I will give him my speech at any time, feel free to read it, that I do not have to do this behind my back. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.00]]
u2020-04-21-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute Péter Ungár, LMP.
u2020-04-21-103	Thank you very much for the floor. I would not be involved in the debate on the Holy Father, but I would like to respond to what the Secretary of State has to say. Unlike wind power, we have heard many things about why the government does not support or even effectively pedalize this clean energy source. In comparison with Paks, I would just like to say to the Secretary of State that wind energy does not require people to raise their children in Baranya County, for example, with nuclear waste. It's a positive effect of wind power, let's say. Mr. Secretary of State: what is always said is the aesthetic problem with wind energy. I'm not an architect, but the last time I saw the Mátra Power in Heves County, I didn't get a tear in my eye from this peak performance of Hungarian architectural art. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] I also don't think the Paks plant will be next to Guggenheim in Bilbao in the books as an architectural masterpiece. (Faintness. ) So I think that aesthetic issues should be taken out of energy policy, because perhaps we should pursue aesthetic issues in other matters. It's about energy policy. Wind energy, by the way, while we are talking about qualifications, I am a geography specialist, as well as the leader of the LMP faction, we know that Hungary is in a swimming pool. That's why we know it's windproof, so we're even aware of that. At the same time, Serbia is in very, very similar geographical conditions, yet it has much greater wind power capacity, most of which was developed by a Hungarian company, a certain MET company. So if it was a good business for Hungarians to develop wind energy in Serbia, it would probably have made sense to develop wind energy in parts very close geographically and previously belonging to a country. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So my question is, if this is such a terrible thing, then why are economic groupings not so far from you looking for it? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-104	Thank you. I would like to welcome once again my fellow Members. There will be two more minutes of speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-105	Mr President, Dear House, For the sake of easier record keeping, I have just found that, yes, we can argue about climate for as long as possible, because certain data can be drawn on everything and on the contrary in a faith dispute, but there are numbers that are not. I am amazed to hear my fellow pro-government Members try to show off what positive emission data Hungary has, because we are not so polluting in comparison with the European Union, and we are not so bad. Please. You live from the second two thirds of 30 years that have been misplaced to this day, when you have built and sold Hungarian production units and factories in a treasonous manner towards the end of Communism in the early 1990s. So it fits the darkest black pages in the history books. But then emissions in Hungary decreased to such an extent that the government can live to this day, and it can meet all kinds of different limits where it can. But I have to say, on the other hand, there is a certificate of your activities every year, and this is Hungary's budget. And we can examine that the most violent thing that is damaging to the created environment and damaging to the everyday life of Hungarian people in Hungary is the amazing housing crisis and its abandonment. If only in terms of insulation modernisation on the residential front, this government had opened up part of EU funds in ten years because it could have been, only you didn't want it, and it would have opened up development programmes that would have opened up for modernisation and heating development, then we could have said that, on the one hand, in terms of our environment, and on the other hand, in terms of the everyday life of Hungarian people, there could have been hundreds of billions of blessings, positives and benefits on the table. So my only request is that before they paint that particular Hungarian sky pink, look at these numbers and face what they didn't do, even though they could. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by giving the floor to our written-up speaker, our colleague, Antal Csárdi, the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think that we need to talk about local governments, because the climate crisis is seriously endangering the vitality of our settlements. And I think that when we talk about it, we can't and shouldn't go past the fact, and I already know that in the pro-government benches, they're coming up now, so that in the last few days, weeks, months and years, you've been constantly emptying the local government. I can give you specific examples. I think it was not an accident to mention the city of Göd in today's debate, where I say to Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, it is not the investment that is indisputable, but that the tax revenue of the company for the city has been hijacked, so the population of Göd has been damaged by millions and billions of forints. Technically, God loses about 30% of his tax revenue in his budget with this decision. But what's wrong with that? 'Cause you could say, ah, what difference does it make? This is important, ladies and gentlemen, because the whole point of being able to finance municipalities is to make the necessary investments in cities. It is not enough to run the city, it is important that necessary and important improvements be made. I will give you some examples, and I think that perhaps one of the most important things is that the exchange and renewal of water utilities is taking place in Hungary at such a pace that it can replace the water utility infrastructure with this rate in about 200 years. Please, if it's not irresponsible, then nothing is. And why is that? Because public utility companies and municipalities are not in a financing or economic situation to conduct these investments. But I think that this is also the time to talk about climate change seriously burdening the housing stock of cities and settlements. And here it will be mentioned at this moment that urban rehabilitation, which worked wonderfully until 2010, and the interior of Budapest became more beautiful and beautiful, and then in 2010 you also removed this source. I think that when we are talking about the renewal of buildings, we really cannot go without saying that, since you are on the government, there is no money for building energy modernisation, residential building energy modernisation. Because I think that's the point that people living here, our fellow citizens, are allowed to live in a more climate-friendly environment, a much more comfortable environment. And yes, here are the issues of the renovation of the condominium, which, to this day, are being implemented with strong and significant support from the municipalities, but the bled-out municipalities are increasingly able to help condominiums who want to participate in condominium renovation programmes. I think that these elementary damages will have a very serious impact on our daily lives in the coming years. And if cities, municipalities, cannot respond adequately to these climatic changes, the damage caused by the current rains may become commonplace, due to deficiencies in the sewer system, and, yes, drinking water bases that provide drinking water in our cities can easily be put at risk. I think we should rethink the entire municipal funding system. You are very proud to have taken over the debts of the municipalities in 2015, but at the same time and at the same time you have set up a task financing system that is virtually underfunded by the minimum quality of mandatory tasks. Which means that in a previous comment, I have collected these, that I recall that social tasks are financed at about 70%, that kindergarten care is financed at about 50 percent, and that municipalities should finance these public services at the expense of their other revenues, in the vast majority of cases of lack of investment. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about a climate crisis, we also need to talk about this. [[16.10]] We also need to talk about the fact that, for net political reasons, I told you about Göd, they hijacked one third of the tax revenue and redirected it to the county assembly. With due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members what kind of service they are performing in the event of a medical emergency, or, in general, in terms of municipal tasks, a county government, which requires that this amount of revenue be withdrawn from a city with opposition leadership and handed over to the county government, which is, in fact, a fidesz-led city. I think it's a rhetorical question that I'm afraid there's no answer to. And, yes, we also need to talk about the extent to which key government investments are destroying the city's image, the unity of the city. Let's just think, we don't have to go too far, the Liget project. Yes, for the Liget project, which has not been implemented to this day, because some enthusiastic, dedicated heroes defended the value that Liget represents for Budapest. It means the lungs of Budapest, and... [[Nacsa Lawrence: They set fire to it! They set the posters on fire!]] My fellow Member, if you've filed that mouth lock bill, at least you're gonna have to respect it. I don't have any other requests. So some enthusiastic volunteers have prevented this investment from happening, and that this investment will take away a lot of quality green areas from the city, even though we know very well that if the summer heat comes, a park the size of Városliget can reduce the city's average temperature by more than one degree, especially in the inner part of the city. It is worth considering here, in the building of Parliament, before the renewal of Kossuth tér, there were hundreds of trees here, Kossuth tér was a parked-looking area, so that if you leave Parliament, how much hotter it is now in a summer heat of 35-40 degrees, when Kossuth tér is virtually from stone to stone, as before the renovation, when the shadow of the trees gave the people living here as cool as the heart of the city. I think it is very important that we do not lose sight of these issues, because if we consider these issues secondary and consider them as non-primary, focussing issues, then we will all lose in the fight with climate change, and I think that this is not a party political issue: if we lose, you will lose, we too will lose, but the biggest losers of this potentially lost fight will be our children and grandchildren, but the responsibility will be ours. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be two-minute speeches, followed by Secretary of State. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-21-109	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Congressman Ungár that perhaps the Mátra Power Plant is a big ugly house, and the wind farms are a lot of ugly houses in many places. So I don't think there's any other way to compare them, but there's definitely a need for power plants. Actually, I'd like to say a few words about wind farms. The problem with wind power plants is not only that they do not weave the propellers and other parts of this power plant, it not only grows naturally and grows out of the ground, but it also requires a strong back-up industry to produce it. And there is another big problem with it: that wind power plants are extremely difficult to design, and they definitely need an additional power plant. In general, countries with the appropriate geographical environment for an additional power plant choose SZET, which means a pumped power plant. There are very few possibilities for this in Hungary, and this issue cannot be dealt with with with a pumped power plant, and even as far as I have looked at it, we may install the Hungarian rivers with small power plants, i.e. local power plants. That's the main problem with wind farms. Solar power plants are better designed, as it is usually easier to distinguish between night and day, and we have problems with the wind. I'm just saying this about wind power plants, but in terms of solar power plants, like I said, I agree with the fact that it's on top of the existing buildings, but it's more expensive than the solar power plant. Those who say that in this area, however, there is a question of not installing a solar power plant on land with 30-40 crowns of gold, we agree that there is no debate between us. Yet I say that the solar power plant in Hungary is still a much better solution [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's like installing wind farms around the neck.
u2020-04-21-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-04-21-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Congressman Koncz. You're talking about aesthetics, wind farms. Under the current legislation, which you have presented and adopted, there is no way to build a wind farm within 12 kilometres of the border of a settlement, but at the same time it can be a nuclear cemetery, even directly at the border of a settlement. A few years ago, the nuclear law was amended, and this ignominious measure was taken to have such ridiculous 50-100 meters of impact. However, I would like to respond to an important statement by Secretary of State Schanda. He mentioned the 2004 Singing Fight as a positive example. In this case, we have seen a very exemplary cooperation from President Falcon, Zoltán Illés, the exemplary position of the Hungarian people, Pécs and Pécsvárad people, to save Mount Singing. Three years later, on Mount Tubes in Pécs, the socialist government wanted to build a legitimate locator, and the Hungarian people, obviously the struggle of the people of Pécs, prevented this shameful act. Then a very important event took place in Hungary, the first referendum in the Green Case in the Tubes case, we are talking about 2007, and this referendum swept away this shameful and socialist government decision. Now, back to the Fidesz government... [[Intercoms.]] Then Fidesz was in opposition at the level of the city leadership, and then the MSZP was destroyed, we know that. But in this situation, your government wants to build a nuclear cemetery next to the city, and it also allows a uranium mine's re-opening plans to take place in the planning of uranium mining activities under the inhabited areas of the city. Now, your prime minister, your boss, made a very clear promise in Pécs in 2015 and said that without the approval of the people of Pécs, such nuclear facilities would not be possible. When will the Prime Minister finally keep his promise? The municipality of Pécs County has recently declared that it does not wish to see a nuclear cemetery or uranium mine in the neighbourhood of the city, so I would like to ask Mr State Secretary that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will keep his promise to the Pécs. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-112	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-113	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to point out to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck that, by the way, there is no need to agree on everything with Pope Ferenc, and it is also possible to argue with her. But what he said in his message to the Madrid climate summit, we fully agree: Pope Francis did not urge everyone to declare a climate crisis, but urged them to act, he just said. It was a shame to have all the emissions from the plane and everything, so it was a shame to go there. I would like to tell Congressman Csárdi that the anarchists you call heroes are the ones who destroyed an ancient, high-value platform by burning it in the Liget. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: It's not like that!]] So this is how the story of the Liget protectors you call a hero begins. In my longer comment, I will explain in detail why this problem exists, and I would also like to address the local government you referred to, but thanks to the activities of these anarchists, a high-value platform has been destroyed. I'm sure you're sorry about that, too, or you can count on it. [[16.20]] I find it outrageous that Szél Bernadett regularly accuses the leaders of Hungary, public-law dignitaries of where they are, what they do at work and what they do when he comes into Parliament for a piece of Facebook video, then immediately storms off and does not wait for answers. Thus, it is difficult to argue with him and with others who rush out immediately after their speech. I don't think that's appropriate when we're being asked to discuss it. Once again, I ask that the debate be on the ground to recognise the results that have been produced. Mr Harvester, we know exactly when the first climate change strategy was adopted and put in place. One measure did not take place between 2008 and 2010. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true!]] Strategies could be put forward, measures and concrete figures, results, which were otherwise implemented after 2010, and measures were taken after 2010. There was a strategy, but then nothing happened. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I would just like to respond to my fellow Member Koncz, who said that wind power plants have no right to exist in Hungary. I understand you're from Borsod to the National Assembly. [[Ferenc Koncz: From Zemplén!]] I would like to tell you to visit Kisaland and you can face the fact that there are places in Hungary where wind power plants do exist. We have put forward a proposal for a decision in this regard to remove precisely this mileage limit from the law, and where it is justified and economically profitable, it is very important that wind power plants are economically profitable, if there is a demand for it. By the way, the example of the Kisaland shows that we are actually talking about small settlements and small settlements there, because this is a region of the country how much revenue this means. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-116	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-21-117	I am pleased to hear that, as I understand it, Mr Nacsa says, after 2010, the Fidesz government continued to implement the action of the climate change strategy. But they started before 2010 and, unfortunately, after 2010, you did very little of it, as shown by the fact that in the second strategy you repeated a series of things that were already in the first one. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group.
u2020-04-21-119	I would just like to draw your attention to two things for my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. On the one hand, if, in general, you are asking for the use of the aircraft as a means of transport on opposition representatives, you should be so kind as to have your own fellow Member accounted for in the same question. So this infinitely transparent double standard on this issue, too, I think, is blowing the whistle for a lot of people. And the other should at least show as much equity as a parent with more than one child know that not everyone can afford to sit through this debate at home. I am afraid that when you expect our fellow Members to sit here the whole time, you do not stand on the ground of reality. They expressed their views, expressed their views, sent messages to the electorate, sent a message to you about what would be a responsible attitude. If there's any chance of convincing you with more and more arguments, you might want to stay here, but I'm afraid seeing your stubbornness, your stubbornness, it's not that hopeful. So please do not comment on our fellow Members, especially those mothers who cannot argue on the same subject for eight hours without any particular hope of persuading you. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-120	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches. I give the floor first to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-21-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to join the debate on a few points and reflect on a number of issues that may have been addressed to me in the first place. With regard to the relationship between economy and climate protection... the sentence was wrong. Thus, economic protection, economic development and climate protection have been raised before. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that we do not think that we should turn these two cases against each other, but that they can complement each other and strengthen each other. Such development, for example, is Budapest-Belgrád, such a development is Paks II., and the developments that you are attacking could still be listed, and we believe that they are partly a key issue for the country from an economic development point of view and partly a climate protection point of view. The other thing I would like to draw attention to in the context of the debate, with a little reference to the original draft parliamentary resolution, is that basically it is worth setting objectives, realistic and feasible goals for a country, whether it is a government document or a parliamentary decision, which do not make our other important goals impossible. So we think that we need a responsible and realistic climate policy. The Hungarian government pursues such a policy, one which allows for our strategic goals, which are also important, such as the eradication of poverty, the catching up of Roma, the protection and creation of jobs, or even the financing of programmes for demographic change. Indeed, I also think that there is a debate between us that defining goals that are more stringent than the European Union's objectives would be a competitive disadvantage for Hungary, for the Hungarian economy and for Hungarian economic operators, which, in particular, in a situation in which we are now in, where competitiveness will be a key factor in the coming years, would be a significant disadvantage for Hungary. We ask you not to want to harm Hungarian businesses and the Hungarian economy, but to adopt decisions and goals that serve climate protection at the same time and serve all our other strategic goals at the same time. Basically, there was even a question of overhead. Here we were accused of all sorts of strange things. Allow me to say one sentence: according to the MEKH, looking at February 2020 data, honourable Member, February data, domestic retail consumers in gas are the lowest in Europe and the second best price for electricity. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] Everything else is simply not true. It's a shame to accuse us of something you can prove to be wrong in no time. Let us be once again proud of these results, it is unnecessary to make false accusations. (Lőrinc Nacsa: That's right.) I also tried to be brief about Göd, and I wouldn't waste much time now, but let me draw attention to the fact that the new regulation does not distract revenues from strategic investment in climate protection, but also makes it possible. And, by the way, in the area of the special economic zone, Mr Csárdi is not here, but perhaps he raised this question about the allocation of revenue from the local tax to be collected, which appears to be the revenue of the county municipality, new rules have been laid down, according to which 70 per cent of the municipal authorities that are more directly involved in the investment, listed in the designating government decree, are entitled in proportion to the number of inhabitants. 30 per cent of the county municipality of the county in which the special economic zone is situated, of which 5 percentage points of revenue is required to carry out the public tasks received and 25 per cent of the revenue is used as a source of tenders for the area of the special economic zone defined in the regulation and for the administrative territory of the municipalities directly affected by the investment. [[16.30]] No one's been taken from any source. That's what I'm talking about. Have them read the relevant regulations, by the way. We also received critical comments on building energy. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have helped and helped Hungarian families with a number of residential energy efficiency programs:. Home heat, a zero-percent credit program for the energy modernisation of residential properties,.Hungarian village, CSOK, village CSOK, the improvement of housing conditions and related programs for the surrounding settlements. After all, one of the central elements of the government's family policy is the provision of home-building programmes for housing purposes, and the programmes could still be listed. The project "The Energy-conscious Modern Hungarian Homes" is specifically aimed at improving the situation of households. We support energy production for our own purposes. We are installing one million smart meters, and the planned energy efficiency obligation system and associated ESFO funding allow households to pay and bear the costs of achieving energy efficiency targets and, in this context, to pay particular attention to disadvantaged households. So I think that there are plenty of measures, on an unprecedented scale, in an unprecedented and varied manner, that serve precisely the measures that you want us to be accountable for. These are real, real, real programs. Allow me not to engage substantially in the windy, wind-powered aesthetic debate, since Congressman has a much better aesthetic sense than I do. [[Rumors and information from the LMP lines.]] I'm pretty sure of that. However, allow me to remind you that I have listed eight or nine aspects that I have tried to subdivide and support the position of the Hungarian government on wind energy. You've chosen one of these, which, by the way, I think can be protected, even if your aesthetic sense of beauty is significantly more advanced than mine. After all, the fact is that all our other arguments and all the other aspects, I think, provide sufficient security and stability for this aspect. Once again, therefore, we firmly believe that the direction that the Hungarian government is following in relation to renewables is the right and the right direction. As far as the nuclear cemetery is concerned, all sorts of questions have been raised here. I must tell you frankly, I expected these questions to come forward in the debate on and beyond the next law, but I hope that we can play this with Congressman here, and that the next one will be faster. Allow me to talk about this a few sentences longer, but I will try to be quick. In Hungary, no decision has yet been made on the establishment of a deep geological storage facility, but only possible research on the selection of possible sites is being carried out in Hungary. Hungarian laws provide accurate and responsible treatment of spent fuel and radioactive waste, and geological research on site selection based on previous surveys takes place in the West Mecsek area. This process, by the way, is a selection and certification process based on international experience, which may take decades, and these research is still ongoing. So there's no decision at all. If the research carried out will at all support it, we are not here yet, but if it is confirmed, we cannot yet know this, but if it is supported, then the Boda site may be suitable for the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste, then Parliament's prior approval in principle is required. So this is where you're going to come before the National Assembly to set up a geological research laboratory. So you come here to the Parliament, you can be created with the permission of the Parliament, not with the government, but with the permission of the Parliament, the research laboratory, then, after the examination there, you can decide on the final suitability of the site. So I propose that we do not necessarily try to fight for decades of debate today. In addition, allow me to tell you that the information required by the nuclear law is provided by Radioactive Waste Management Ltd. regularly informs the population of the municipalities concerned and informs the population of Pécs or Szentlőrinc about the issues, in addition to the statutory obligation. But allow me to stress once again the question that we are having a theoretical debate about which research is being conducted. I think that at least it is not necessarily appropriate and worthwhile to conduct a political debate on research. I have tried to respond to any serious comments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, who has asked to speak on behalf of the authors. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the meantime, I'd like to respond a little bit to a few things. Today, on the part of the Government and on the pro-government side, on behalf of the Members, I would have been credible in today's debate and their comments if at least one small criticism had been included in their comments and they would have acknowledged that, yes, in recent years, the government has not paid attention to climate change and what its consequences are in Hungary. You've done what you've always done today by washing your laundry and insisting that you're extremely climate-friendly. Let us just remember, however, that in 2014 the second national climate change strategy, which was still at the end of the last cycle, was presented at a very high pressure. What happened? They just put him to bed for years after that. First they referred to the Paris Climate Summit, the Climate Convention in 2015, and then we will see. And then they said, well, we're just gonna wait a little bit longer. When has the Second National Climate Change Strategy been presented? Just a few years later, when time passed. Congressman Aradsk not only spoke about the pope, but he did not speak about the pope, but he asked what had changed since 12 December 2018. By the way, a lot has changed since then, since around that time, the IPCC report by the UN Scientific Panel on Climate Change, which focused on the fact that the 2015 Paris Climate Goals were limited. So when governments submitted their voluntary reports after 2015 on how much they want to reduce CO2 emissions, it turns out that this would mean more than 3 percent increase in CO2 by the end of the century. So by the end of 2018, it was clear that there was a big problem and that radical changes had to be made. But you didn't even discover that because you're telling me why we weren't here. You know very well why we weren't here on December 12th. Because the slave law was introduced by then, and it was equally important and serious. What happened last year? You didn't want to change on your own last year, and you didn't want to see that something was wrong. Even last year, most of last year, even until September, and even later, they denied the fact of climate change. If you denied it and said it was a Bolshevist trick, then how could you be environmentally friendly and climate friendly? No way! [[Interviews from Fidesz: Who said that? We didn't!]] That's right! By the way, I would also like to point out that you are very proud of the action plan that the Prime Minister announced at the beginning of this year in his year's opening speech, and I would like you to face the fact that this is not enough, it is not even a drop in the sea. [[16.40]] So it's not going to change, we can't slow down climate change, you're telling us to eliminate illegal landfills. Let's charge him. It must be eliminated, but not within this framework, and it must not be said that this is the government's climate protection programme. In the action plan and at all in the report that we have submitted to the European Union, which contains the ideas for 2050 and the ideas for 2030, it is virtually nothing that you are undertaking. They're still talking about staying at the 40% cut until 2030. There are some issues that cannot be questioned at all, because they are international obligations. Yes, in the spirit of social justice, this is an international obligation. If we say that we only do something when money is given, then what should developing countries say, what should the small ocean island countries say, which fear that their place of residence, their place of life will simply disappear, because the water level is rising. Let's just think about what we're saying and what they're saying. It is very unacceptable, as you say in the energy mix, that nuclear energy. That's not true. Nuclear power is not green energy. [[Dr. András Aradski: Pure energy!]] It's not pure energy, and it's extremely expensive energy. It is not pure and extremely expensive energy, and it has consequences that pose a risk to future generations for centuries. What I would like to say is a few more sentences: it has not been mentioned at all when the strategy will be ready for adaptation tasks, for sectors. You have asked the Ministry of Agriculture, the other wallets, even the Ministry of Finance, education and health to prepare sectoral climate change programmes, to take stock of the tasks. Where did they say, for example, that education should include knowledge related to sustainability, climate change and this whole issue? It is not an answer to this fact that they appear separately in an integrated way. One thing is certain, it would be necessary for these knowledge to appear in a separate subject framework. Secretary of State Schanda said that we have already had the debate that it is an independent Green-Principal Ministry. I think that we have not had this debate, and that is necessary. You listed us to be happy that you now have all kinds of areas. It's just like leaving the cabbage to the goat. You follow the interests of farming, and you are practically not looking at these issues from the side of quality of life, environmental protection and nature protection. A very good example: you are interested in selling as much CO2 quotas as possible because it means revenue. On the other hand, the sale of the CO2 quota constitutes virtually pollution rights. So there are issues here that should be approached differently. Consider the Austrian neighbours a little bit, too, who dared to create the Ministry of Green, Climate and Sustainability. We need these. One last question. Although I do not yet know how we will understand this, Mr Bencsik, that the country may soon have a climate law. I don't know how you plan to do this, because in the past year, too, it has been here a lot as a suggestion on the table, so let's get started. If you had started last year, for example, like Germany, then Hungary might have had a good climate law a long time ago. Although I'll tell you the truth, I'm actually gonna want to know what you want to put in this climate bill. I think it is very important that we also try to find a consensus on content in this case, and not that, and I hope it will not be, that you, with your two-thirds of your strength, will want to press certain questions down our throats. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-125	Thank you for the floor. I would like to return for a few minutes to the very building debate we had on the aesthetic nature of wind energy. I take it as a compliment that, according to the Secretary of State, I have a higher aesthetic sense than the majority of opposition representatives. Hopefully, it's still for my impeccable outfit today. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that, in this case, I would like to ask Mr Erik Bánki, who usually has impeccable clothing as well, what his aesthetic sense covers. The thing is, we're gonna leave the aesthetic sense a little bit to talk about the debate around wind energy. I tried to tell you in the last two minutes that we know that this can't be a power plant that gives most of the Hungarian energy mix. Wind energy can be a power plant in Hungary, a small-scale power plant. But since we have all been collectively seated on the nostalgia train, I would like to signal to my fellow Members that I was the last one to teach energy at the CEU by Zoltán Illés. [[Delight and applause in the lines of the LMP.]] There are two elements of this sentence right here. One is that I was taught by Zoltán Illés at CEU, so then another Fidesz State Secretary was teaching at CEU, and that was no problem. In fact, a fidesz secretary of state who no doubt knew the environment, so much so that, if I remember correctly, under your first administration, he was protesting against his own ministry. [[Ferenc Koncz: No, no, that was under the MDF government!]] Whatever. Then we will also go into the details of this historic debate. But before we explain this, wind energy would be an additional power plant, which would operate mainly on the western and southwest border. On the western and southwest border, this is justified. But you don't allow at least those who take the market risk to build it, not to run it profitably. With the rule that 12, 17 and this will change in many respects, there is no way of installing wind power plants from a settlement within a kilometer, there is actually no place where wind power plants can be installed, because there are many settlements in Hungary and these borders are connected. So the fact that you don't allow market players to invest in this means that you want to ban wind power in some way, as an additional power plant, which doesn't make any sense. What my fellow Member has told me about what kind of hydroelectric power plant is used to supplement this is a very interesting question. The LMP does not support this, as in addition to the fact that on the nostalgia train we have already talked about the election of President Falcon, which was initiated by the May Other World Association, which then became the LMP, and we also talked about the NATO locator, then we can talk about the fact that the beginning of the Hungarian green movement was the demonstrations against the Bős-Nagymaros hydroelectric power plant and against the communist regime. Therefore, we do not support these large hydropower systems, as appropriate. At the same time, for example, natural gas has all temporary legitimacy. Natural gas, which will be balanced until we can find other alternative energy, would have legitimacy. The fact is, however, that you are, unfortunately, declaring a lack of reality, or I don't know how to say it, so what you're saying doesn't open up all the details of the truth, to quote an old classic when you say that gas supply has been diversified in Hungary, and now the gas is not only coming from Russia. From where? Can you give me another country? The Hungarian-Serbian contract establishing the South Stream, which was previously brought into Parliament, also supplies gas from Russia, only on an alternative route, and the gas is basically coming from Russia. So the Krk LNG terminal wasn't built, and then, in vain, Minister Szijjártó talked about it many times, no gas comes from Romania. It comes theoretically, only the practical gas molecule itself doesn't come, so we don't have any mixed gas supply in Hungary. So what they say about this, unfortunately, we are very sad about it, is not true. The fact is that this is why it would be worth investing in alternative energy, as it does not depend on Russia. As I recall, when I was a child, I thought that being dependent on Russia in geopolitics was not necessarily a good thing. [[16.50]] I would remind you that, in 2008-2009, Russia made a great use of its ability to shut down the pipeline and, as I understand it, Serbia had to give the gas to Hungary. [[Intercom from the LMP benches: Gyurcsány...]] Yeah, it was a former government then. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] The thing is... it was another government with another prime minister. But here's the thing. The problem is, the only problem is that the gas is coming from Russia. Dear Congressman Koncz, Even though he shakes his head, it's just that the gas is still coming from Russia, so that's the fact... [[Ferenc Koncz: We agree. There's no argument. There's gas. That's the thing... the president's ringing the bell.]] It's a geographical fact, that's right. If you love it... The gas could come from somewhere else, but the point is that as long as the gas comes from Russia, it would be important to transform the Hungarian energy mix in such a way that we do not need Russian gas. The fact is that, apart from this, it is important to say that Hungary's national independence is not necessarily strengthened, that if the power plant that is being built against Russian gas is the Russian nuclear power plant, in which the Russians will be transporting nuclear material, then we will deliver nuclear waste to the Russians if we do not put it in Boda. So I do not really feel that the continuous struggle for Hungarian energy independence has led to any kind of result for Fidesz in this regard. You can sign another 27 memoranda of understanding with Croatia, the paper can carry a lot of things, but again, the Hungarian energy independence is not growing. It is also important to talk about building insulation, because the best way to reduce energy dependence is to use less energy, and perhaps we all agree on this in the room, because we need to bring it in less, and then we didn't use it. That's good from a green point of view. I would ask Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, that we agree at least on the natural fact that since 2010, the first two orbán-government cycles have not had the explicit priority of building energy modernisation. So let's at least admit there are at least a few years behind schedule. So it wasn't that you've always wanted this very much, and then you're going to have it now, but now you've figured out how to draw EU money, otherwise you've basically never actually done it before. They did some of it in municipal and state buildings, but they didn't do it enough in residential buildings. I would also like to add to the debate on the fact that my fellow Member Koncz has also said how small a share of the total greenhouse gas emissions in Europe is and how responsibility should be measured against this. Yeah. Let's say it would help if the Prime Minister's leadership in the European Union... After all, you are the great enemies of the European Union, Prime Minister of the Council, so he is part of the leadership of the European Union, and Tibor Navracsics, for example, was a Commissioner of the Juncker Committee, and Tibor Navracsics is not so much LMP, a bit more fidesz, so you have taken an active part in the leadership of the European Union. This part of the European Union's leadership was not a very green leadership. The European Union's EPP leadership was not green, to say the least. The fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the German automotive industry is more important to Hungary than the fact that environmental regulations should be tough at EU level shows that you believe that your ability to assert your interests, which, for example, if I read 888, would be the largest for Viktor Orbán, because he is the defender of Christian Europe, this advocacy has been used not to create stronger EU regulations, but to break down existing ones and to serve the Audi and BMW. The thing is, you always argue against shared sovereignty, unless you share this sovereignty with BMW or Audi; that shared sovereignty is very much within your reach. The thing is, outside of the car companies... [[Interview from the governing parties benches: that's enough...]] Yeah. I'm sorry, it's just a little bit of a dialogue. So in addition, you supported the Nord Stream 2 project. At the beginning, they signed a declaration against the countries of the region, and then when they were here... Look, Congressman Aradski, do not wave your head, look, when Viktor Orbán Putin held a press conference I know that there were many of these, you have to look a lot, you have to look at one, you have to look at one, you have to tell the Prime Minister, otherwise the deeply critical question of Rossia 1 that supports the Nord Stream 2 project. So by supporting it, you not only supported the Russian energy dependency at Hungarian level, but also supported it at European level. This was supposed to be the opportunity to fight for freedom to tell us how terrible the German leadership in Merkel is. It could have been dared, it could have been puttyed, it looks very good on you, and yet in this case it was not; in this case, there was also support for the Russian energy dependency at European level. Finally, the fight against climate protection is not only about our lives, but also about Hungary's independence. Those who support Russian gas and Russian atoms are not in favour of Hungarian independence, so I ask you, if you are so proud of being the national side, to support Hungary's independence. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two minutes' speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[Continue in 121/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 21 April 2020 121/2. Number Parliamentary Diary
u2020-04-21-127	Mr President, Dear House, However, my colleague Ungár and I will still have a discussion on where the real national site can be found. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] In my opinion, I think it would be more so around my colleagues, rather than on the Fidesz-KDNP side, as we would have thousands of historical examples, whether in the spirit of sustainability or environmental policy. [[Towards the benches of the governing parties:]] To say just one thing to my fellow Member, who is smiling: who was the one who negotiated the land in the free movement of capital in the EU accession negotiations? Was it the Jobbik? You didn't, did you? Was it the Balliberals? You didn't, did you? It was the Fidesz. There are thousands of examples that could be set, but I don't think we should be stuck here. What is amazing, however, is that if we were talking about how, in terms of sustainability or even in terms of Hungarian climate targets, the problem of the residential segment could have been touched, then we see that there was a basis, there was a register that could have been opened to the Hungarian population, not only in terms of public institutions and public buildings. And here was a fellow Fidesz Member who quoted EU statistics. I'll get you one, then, okay? Maybe he won't be offended. The Hungarian family house population continues to consume less than 10 percent more energy per square metre than the EU average, thus Hungary is among the ten EU Member States that consume the most in particular. One reason for this is that the domestic building stock is clearly outdated in terms of energy efficiency. My question is, what did this government do at programme level in 10 years on this issue. The way I see it, he intervened in one place regarding the energy efficiency of buildings, after, once again, he did not open the register that could have been opened. In one place, he intervened: by abolishing the state leg of housing savings, by killing it, let's say, the future goals of the condominiums preparing for boiler change, since usually the condominiums were able to collect, crochet and acquire such investments with LTP, with state pre-saving support. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, you guys killed him. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-21-128	I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-129	We didn't say that environmental protection, or, I'm sorry, climate change is a Bolshevist trick, that's what I keep hearing. [[Bence Tordai: Viktor Orbán...]] [[Bence Tordai: Viktor Orbán...]] You said the opposite, I think. It's not the same, it's about the parties, and it's not about the phenomenon itself, because in that, again, I completely agree, I don't see any contradictions. (Bence Tordai: Viktor Orbán...) [[Towards Bence Tordai wearing a mouth mask:]] And if Bence Tordai was kind enough to call from behind the thing, then from his mouth it sounds interesting to call double standards. And let's not talk about it, it was Bernadett Szél, who left quickly the last time, after his speech, and someone called him and asked where he was going, saying, "Let's protest." So, so much for this afternoon's engagement. And as for wind power plants, let's get back to the original theme. I didn't say, Congressman Nunkovich, that wind power plants were better at all, but I said solar power plants were better. And I'm telling you right now, that's my opinion. Wind power plants are unpredictable in Hungary, it cannot be planned. It would clearly require a balancing power plant; we have just heard what it means. Therefore, I suggest that we support solar power plants against wind power plants, because they have less impact, especially if we already place these solar surfaces on existing buildings. And what you just said, I think, is the result of the fact that it's happening because of that, Congressman, because if you've been under a wind power plant, it has a very heavy noise effect. [[17.00]] It's very rough, I don't think you can sleep where there's a wind farm like this directly. And let's not talk about it if it's more than one. I think Paks is close to Paks. So in this sense, if a power plant works well or even a suitable reservoir, it may not have harmful consequences.
u2020-04-21-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to respond to your reaction. Allow me to invite you to my constituency with great respect. [[Tamás János Schanda: I live there!]] Very good, you don't have to travel much if you live there, Secretary of State. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] He tolerates this comment. So I invite you with great love to show you that within the constituency, which is truly the heart of Budapest and I am sure that in the country we can only find a worse situation than what the lack of energy modernisation looks like. Dear Secretary of State, If we go to two or three of these families, you will clearly see how relentlessly public assistance is lacking in this circle. I understand that you thought this could be resolved with a subsidised loan, and that your family support has all set this as a goal, but I stress and even this week we can go, I will show you that the availability of your family support is impossible for the families that are most affected by this problem, and for the families that are most affected by this problem, it will help out, if any, a supported loan the most out of trouble. We need direct support. By the way, these forms of support have already existed and have reached users directly through the municipalities, i.e. the population, the electorate. I'll add in parentheses... [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Excuse me, one rhetorical question: but don't you think Secretary of State doesn't think that Göd will miss the tax revenue they're about to lose?
u2020-04-21-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group.
u2020-04-21-133	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I would like to address the issue of gas. You are absolutely right, my fellow Member, when you say that if we look at it, in fact, any source, any pipeline, is coming to Hungary with Russian gas. This was not up to Hungary, and especially not the Fidesz-KDNP government. I have to add that this kind of independence target was already characteristic of the governance of gas supply before 2010, rather than the MOL and the FGSZ at that time, and as a result Hungary was in a position to build up an appropriate cross-border capacity for all neighbouring countries except Slovenia from our side. Another issue is that in Romania, because of the decision of Exxon and the Romanian Government, no molecule from the Black Sea gas was placed in this pipeline. Another question is, of course, that the gas purchased from Austria and Slovakia on the German market is Russian, because it is the cheapest one they can bring here. Another issue is that, even in the worst political conditions, Croatia has been constantly discussed about how we can build normal gas and LNG terminals from the Krk liquid gas, with what business arrangements we can implement in such a way that Hungary can benefit from it. The same can be said of the Serbian relations, and this kind of gas pipeline construction has also started from Serbia. So the gas could also come from Serbia towards Hungary, and this is true of Austria. Technically and technologically, Hungary has done everything in its power to diversify its resources and to produce gas from several sources. It wasn't up to us that it didn't work out in this form.
u2020-04-21-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the two-minute speeches, and we have come to the end of the speeches announced in writing. We now have Members who have asked for a word in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not wish to comment on the debate on this proposal, but a few questions have been raised, and I think it is okay for me to address them at the Parliament meeting. In February, the OECD held twice a year in Paris for world parliaments, one of the topics of which was energy change by 2050, both in terms of energy types and in terms of use, was a prognosis and were very meaningful lectures. By the way, in 1999, the OECD carried out a study by 2050 entitled "Emergency for the next 50 years" and updated annually to see whether or not the prognosis fulfilled their expectations. I would also recommend that everyone present both the study and the OECD's research in this regard. I would like to highlight one of these. According to the research, nuclear energy consumption increased until 2009, which represents an energy consumption of 7500 million tonnes at oil level. This means that the performance of other energy sources is adapted to the power-generating capacity of oil. Since 2009, the energy source created by nuclear energy has been decreasing, so it's not true and I'm sorry, and I have to argue with whoever it is that the energy of the future is nuclear energy. At the same meeting in Paris, on 24 February, a graph was presented showing how researchers around the world expect to change the energy diversification that will inevitably happen, since on the one hand, fossil energy is running out and on the other hand, we want to solve the climate problem and reduce CO2 emissions. This future graph clearly speaks, and whether you like it or not, we will be in this position because of the growth of the world's population, that, if not exponentially, because we are trying to consume less energy, but of course, energy consumption will increase, this is not a question, and it is quite strongly due to population growth. But what was very interesting was that, until 2050, the ratio of nuclear energy remained unchanged, not in real terms, but in nominal terms. This means that it is not true that nuclear energy is the energy of the future. Of course, there has also been a description of political instability, possible security threats, problems with the storage of fuel as a negative factor, but it is certain that these research is always based on the energy policy decisions of the countries of the world, and, of course, from the availability of resources, and while wind energy, solar energy, is amazingly growing in the graph as we go forward in time, nuclear energy remains unchanged. So it may be true that nuclear power plants are opening, but it is also true that they are closing. So what I would like to say in this connection is that, in the world, such an influential institution as the OECD in its own research and prognosis, it says that it will neither increase nor increase the proportion of nuclear energy within energy sources, not only relative but nominally. The second question I wanted to comment on is Paks II. cost. When we first heard the first budget amount, I did nothing but search the Internet for data on the cost of filling a household with renewable energy sources. From the first budget it came out that all households in Hungary could have been equipped with renewable energy from this amount, with a maximum of 20 per cent of the household's self-power. Since then, costs have almost doubled, as we are constantly hearing that investment costs are increasing. This means, please, that you are right that nuclear energy may also serve the energy needs of production, because there is a different use of energy in the residential and other industrial environments, and even industrial energy consumption will increase significantly in the future, in a much higher proportion than residential consumption. [[17.10]] In fact, it can be concluded that, whether you like it or not, other sources of energy would replace industrial use if households were to use renewable energy sources. The next thing I would like to say a few words about is that I will not be so much loved by my fellow Members of the LMP, and a lot of people, especially Pécsi, but, since the Singing question has been raised, I will tell you about the aspect of this subject that I have experienced on the basis of my professional competence, which, by the way, I do not know why it was never mentioned in this House. When the Zingő Radar was invented, one of the most important aspects of it was that, perhaps, my older fellow Members remember that the rate of drug smuggling from the southern countries had increased relentlessly. The secret servants showed that about 80 percent of the drug imported into Hungary by small aircraft from the southern countries was imported through this relation, and it was clear that Hungarian radars were not suitable to detect low-flying small aircraft. And for this reason, among other things, the Zingő was chosen as a possible radar area because it was the only altitude point from which the entire South Transdanubia could have been seen even by these radars, even pulling over to the Great Plains. When this was invented, the largest NATO radar station in Belgium was completed two years before, where fortunately it was really done fairly. They put a natural environment around the radar just because of the camouflage, because it is an important thing in itself that the radar is not visible to anyone who should not be aware that it is surrounded in an extraordinary way by very nice and really rich vegetation. I've seen this radar myself. That would have been the pattern. Then, of course, the position of the Pécsians, Baranyans and conservationists was understandable, so that this natural environment would not be burdened with this. However, the consequence of this was that they should know this, and we have voted in recent months to ensure that the lack of radar construction could not be created, and this is that after the remaining radar built in Medina in the south-western part of the country cannot see it, so it is Croatia who, by handing over its own capabilities to us, is monitoring this south-west and south-west with the radar. A serious social problem was this way of distributing drugs, unfortunately, the only way we can solve this area with radar in all respects is that we are at the mercy of Croatia. There is a treaty on this, and our consideration is to protect the northern areas of Croatia with the Gripens if there is some kind of hostile intrusion. But this, whether you like it or not, has, of course, led to a small, but also a sovereignty issue. It is important to talk about these issues because social needs, natural needs, environmental needs and numerous needs are at odds with each other in one case, and while we do good on one side and effectively overcome such a question, for example, there is another aspect of this which puts our country, our society, our citizens or the government in a more difficult situation. And the last thing I wanted to talk about may be a little funny, and it may also draw the attention of my tired fellow Members to the fact that Mr János Bencsik has presented a climate view of his speech here in the House and, after a significant number of opposition representatives are taking part in this debate as pro-government, let us, with a public cry, call on Mr János Bencsik as Minister for the Environment and call on the President of the Republic to create a Ministry of the Environment on the proposal of Prime Minister. It is time, and, well, there is a fellow Member here who can do this job perfectly. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-21-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2020-04-21-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you in advance for your trust. I hear you screaming. I wanted to reply first to my fellow Member, Péter Ungár: of course, Hungary's primary interest is energy diversification. We've never said anything else, and that's what we think, even if you accuse us of not saying that. Minister Péter Szijjártó has reported this on several occasions in the presence of Member Ungár, for example, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also here in the House, and on several occasions in the negotiations with foreign partners. For example, we have opened up two roads with the US, and in recent years we have taken significant steps; one of them is the extraction of black sea gas fields, and here the decision of an American-Austrian consortium depends on the ability to start extraction here. We will, of course, build the necessary infrastructure for this. The other to Croatia is the LNG terminal in the Krk Islands, where numerous declarations of intent have also been signed and the construction of the infrastructure has also been started. We are open, we have pre-contractual agreements, and we have made capacity, if this is a living solution, then we can live with it. I think that we have found a point among many other points of today, in which we agree, and, of course, energy diversification is necessary, and I would not only say that it is necessary, but that Hungary has an elemental interest in achieving this. Congressman Csárdi is no longer in the room, I do not see him now, but I would also like to say a few words about the local governments that, when someone is in a position of responsibility, he will see what he really wants to do in order to protect the climate, what he wants to do in order to protect the environment, because until someone has a responsible position, it is possible to encourage political balloons, but let us see what happened in Budapest. In Szabó Timea's constituency, the Gyurcsányist mayor in Óbuda campaigned in September-October to save the Szentendre road trees, very rightly, then became mayor, moved to the Gyurcsány party, and now decided to cut down. These are the trees on Szentendre road, with which he had previously campaigned to protect him; they are located in the constituency of Szabó Timea. He doesn't want to save them, he doesn't seem to be much of a climate champion. But let us, for example, move on to the constituency of Congressman Antal Csárdi. If you have invited Secretary of State Schanda to visit, don't forget to show the ice trees cut out by the dialogue mayor when, as a New Year's gift, the I. Districts faced in January that beautiful, ancient and very valuable ice trees were cut off by the dialogue mayor next to the Holy Trinity Square. But let's keep going. During the poetry period, Gergely Christmas cut down trees full of nests, then even Mayor of Zugló from the park on Butterfly Street, during the breeding period, trees full of nests. It is also a talkative number that in recent years István Tarlós planted more trees in Zuglo than Gergely Christmas during the same period when he was mayor and István Tarlós mayor. So simple, such is the two-faced or watermelon policy that Balliberal MEPs are pursuing on this issue. No one should doubt that they are talking about climate protection here, and when action is taken, they act in the opposite direction. That is why we are talking about the need for action, not words on this subject, and who is in a position to act, like the Fidesz-KDNP government, is also obliged to act on this issue, not to promote political balloons like you have done for several hours in the past. We could find a lot more common points, and I have already talked about this, if you would recognise the results that we have already achieved, and there would be much more opportunities for progress on this subject if we could carry out this debate in such a tone. I think that we have come to a situation on this issue that has not been before, because the environment, more specifically the natural environment, has not shown its relevance to human care during the centuries of history. Man could have used it, lived up to his belongings and treasures, even forgetting that man had tasks of culture and guardianship toward nature. [[17.20]] This condition has only recently occurred in historical perspectives at a very, but higher speed, and is constantly changing with the increase in human numbers, industrialization or scarcity of some of the environment's assets, starting with the deterioration of the quality of the environment. What we see is that the living conditions of man and his environment today depend in an unprecedented way on the ability of man to do this job as a worker and guardian and to exercise it over nature and its environment. At this age, concern for the environment has gone from institutional level to individual action levels, since today everyone who cares about the quality of life of both present and future generations is forced to care about the state and future of the environment. I think the key issue is that we have talked about it, there are good strategies, and this leads to good action plans, which, by the way, we can allocate resources to. This is now a much bigger debate in the European Union on what resources can be allocated to this. We take the view that the largest polluting companies, the largest polluting countries, must keep the bill, and that action plans must be implemented in any case. This requires a strong, capable will, which could be done here in Parliament, beyond the governing parties, because economic operators, politics, communities, church, social, civil society organisations and individual people have a tremendous responsibility in this. My fellow Members have repeatedly mentioned the energy modernisation of buildings. This is something to be debated about, what is the right direction, the energy modernisation of public institutions and buildings, the modernisation of residential homes and private homes. You can't say it wasn't, because it's not factually true. There have been huge programmes in recent years, and the reason why we have started in public institutions, schools, kindergartens, crèches, many municipal buildings, municipal buildings, many civil society and church-owned buildings, because these larger buildings are the largest consumers, is the first place to achieve the greatest savings if these large institutions are modernised. That's why we decided to move in this direction. Of course, it is possible to argue that this direction is better or better to start with many small ones, but it is undeniable that there were large programmes in this respect, large budgetary resources, EU and domestic budgetary resources have been allocated to it, and that is precisely why savings have been achieved in these sectors; I say once again, in community buildings, schools, kindergartens, municipal institutions, social institutions, hospitals and countless social institutions that are considered to be large consumers of the institutions. That is why I say that this could be a professional debate, but I think we made the right decision when we started in this direction, and we made a lot of savings by modernising the energy of these institutions. So I don't think it's fair to say that there were no energy modernisation programmes. There were, perhaps not as you imagined, but in any case they were, and they have brought a lot of results in the last five or seven years. I would like to finish my speech by saying that in the case of environmental protection... you have criticised why there is no environmental or climate protection law, why there is no climate law. This is what we're discussing right now. If you are not brave enough to think that you are, then I can't help it, but we are talking about this subject for several hours, we are talking about such measures now. There will still be similar measures on the agenda today, but I think that only the beneficial thinking, which is for the individual's own good and subjective use, is not the right direction. Everyone should switch to a community-minded mindset, because the desire for another person's interest is also part of the community approach, and the individual's goals include the common good, and it should finally be in the interest of the individual, because the community is a member of everyone, so if the community benefits, then the individual will benefit from it. From now on, I would like to encourage this approach on this subject as well, since every individual is responsible for our own creation world and for our environment, even if Szél Bernadett has ridiculed the term created world and the term creation protection, yet I would insist on this word, everyone in the created world has a responsibility, individual and community responsibility, but let us try to give priority to community goals. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-04-21-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Just a very brief reaction to Congressman Nacsa's speech. Here, my colleague Ungár also mentioned that he was talking about Russian energy dependence, that you would reduce this, at all, energy dependence. If they build everything on Paks II, if Paks II. they will build the entire climate strategy into investment, and they will clearly preserve this energy dependency both from the credit point of view of technology dependence and from the point of view of the acquisition of fuel. And likewise, when it comes to the fight for freedom, the national commitment, the Secretary of State mentioned the Budapest-Belgrád railway line here, why would they want Hungarian taxpayers to pay HUF 1000 billion for a project that serves the great power of China? If this is such a big deal, why don't the Chinese build it on a market basis? With regard to municipalities, I would not open up a more detailed debate, but there are many examples of what they have done in relation to these measures when they were Fidesz city leaders, i.e. climate protection. I have found that in Pécs, where I live, the Fidesz has governed for ten years, they would have had every opportunity to do anything to protect the city, whether to restart the nuclear cemetery or uranium mining. In fact, in any forum the public expressed their demand in this direction, they refused to address this issue, the situation was quite clear, against a central government dictator, a Fidesz city leader refused to raise his voice, likewise the elected pro-government representatives. Mr President, you mentioned the state of energy modernisation. I have once mentioned in a debate that there are anomalies, legal anomalies, for example, that district heating apartments cannot now apply for such energy upgrades, simply because there is a multiplication of zero in their current legislation, and they are left out. I think that this is absolutely clear to all of us that either the window replacement or in any way a houseproofing is certainly forward-looking, but they cannot do that. Similarly, and this is also a Pécs, but other examples can be given of what is or cannot be considered as green energy in relation to biomass. In that, I think that we have a very serious debate with the current opposition city leadership in Pécs, or with some of its members, that, for example, large-scale wood burning can be regarded as green energy. We say no, so we should also make very serious changes in the legal environment in this regard. Well, then another reaction here is that you have very strongly emphasised the importance of action, too, by the Secretary of State and by my fellow pro-government Members. We've seen what's happened in the last ten years. They are asking for fairness, my fellow pro-government Members. Obviously, we cannot say that everything that happened was wrong, but basically as opponents, it is our job to highlight what is wrong, what needs to be changed. And speaking of action, Mr Secretary of State has, as some sort of genderless attack, advocated that I referred to the sentence of this phrase in his exposure to the reduction of overhead, and I have linked this to the situation in the water utility sector. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, which is also part of your ministry, what you have done precisely to protect the water utilities sector, what you have done in order to improve the situation of this most important public service, the supply of drinking water, sanitation, sewage treatment, and thus the protection of water bases. We see that the situation in this regard has steadily deteriorated with regard to all numbers, all statistical data. Do you have any ideas, Mr. Secretary? I have tried to ask Minister Palkovics a lot of times that the sum of 1500-3000 billion forints, which, in addition to the resources currently available, is missing for the most basic maintenance and replacement work, can be replaced from what source. This should be a 15-year perspective, a 15-year perspective for rolling development plans, and funding should be added to the tasks. No government politician or government member has ever been able to give a clear answer to this; it has always been some kind of foggy saying that it will come from some kind of tender. From what source? 1500-3000 billion forints is a huge large, huge amount of money, yet what kind of tender source and how will this amount be raised? So here is the action; over the last ten years, it can be seen that this has been the result of the action, the action of the Fidesz-KDNP government in the water utility sector. But it is also the action that you have done in relation to public transport. I mentioned in my expo, I didn't have time to explain in more detail, I'm not going to go into a transport policy debate in detail now, but years ago, we put down a transport policy concept for a professional consultation, otherwise even the employee side took part in the consultation. [[17 .30]] There was a material on which we could say that there was indeed a complete consensus on how to reorganize the national social transport system by forming transport associations, establishing a national timetable, introducing a tariff community, and how to create a much more efficient transport system alongside the resources now used, which is quite clear how it relates to the issue of combating climate change, to rural policy issues, and the rest and so on. Why didn't you get away with this? They had ten years to launch this transport reform. You have always talked about national bus production, compared with a billion-dollar subsidy to a Chinese assembly plant, so this did not happen either. I would also like to ask you exactly what source, schedule and how the vehicle park for domestic public transport, the bus park, will be renewed. We see what kind of bus purchases are in progress, but if we calculate the average, the average age of the current bus park, we see that this is not even close to what is needed in scale. We know that, unfortunately, there is an EU obligation to open up the market for cross-border Community transport, which we consider to be very bad, but it is probably not possible to avoid after several delays. In this way, guarantees should be built in this system to ensure that, if, say, different market players appear and the market is distributed, which I repeat, we regard as a very bad idea, because we consider public transport to be a strategic sector that should be managed by a public authority, so that it does not suffer, let us say, in rural peripheral areas. We also miss action here. They can't say we're just criticizing, making suggestions because we hung up. We've worked very hard on this transport strategy, and it was there before you. Very serious, competent pro-government politicians have also acknowledged that the material itself is completely professional. In fact, there's been a lack of action on your part. My question, Mr. Secretary, is when this will happen. One more question, didn't you, Secretary of State, mention the Budapest-Belgrád railway line? We had a four-hour debate on this not so long ago, I do not wish to reopen this debate, but Mr Secretary of State... [[Antal Csárdi intervenes.]] But if you feel that you're right, then why are you encrypting me? Why did they encrypt the calculations, the underlying documents, why would they encrypt the contract? You acknowledge that you really have no arguments, that you are practically unable to enter into a concrete debate along the project, and that is why you are encrypting the documents, but I really do not want to go into it again in substance. I would like to mention one more question, which is very, very important. There have been criticisms of how and how the opposition approaches the issue of climate change. I would now like to read a quote, Mr Speaker, saying: "People all over Europe consider immigration and the threat of terrorism to be the most important issue, but politicians who dominate Brussels at large are making enormous efforts to put the rule of law, the ingratitude of the Eastern European countries or climate change at stake instead. That's what Mr. Speaker said at some kind of event. I have already partly agreed to the criticism of the functioning of the European Union, not to talk about that, but to confront the issue of migration and climate change that this is unfounded. I very much hope that my fellow Members will accept what we can say is quite well-known that there is a huge, very powerful link between climate change, environmental destruction and migratory pressure. My fellow Members also know that, in the medium term, if we fail to address these problems, if we fail to work together, this is obviously not a nation-state competence, and it is not even the competence of the Union, if we fail to take meaningful action to reduce the effects of climate change, and we give everyone the opportunity to thrive in their homeland, to live there, to remain an opportunity for agricultural production, we will face an intense and brutal migration pressure that will be very, very difficult to deal with, let us say, with symptomatic treatment and border protection. But again, this is not about migration alone, border protection and the threat of terrorism being a relevant issue. Yes, we think it's a matter of fate. So, in order to tackle migration, the global migration crisis, the issue of fate is also a whole of Europe and fate for Hungary, just to see, fellow Members, that these things are in a very, very strong contradiction with each other. Thank you very much in advance, if we can still answer these questions in the debate.
u2020-04-21-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that my fellow Member Koncz is not here now, because it seems that we have a dialogue on wind farms. He said that there are no specific opposition to wind power plants, but that this is not usable or feasible in Hungary. I'm going to tell him once again that he'd like to visit the Kisaland, where there are models that work, and I think that the people who live there would be very happy to see some of these. And speaking of rooftops, where we see solar panels most of the time, so when a panel house is being modernised, what do we see at the top of the panelhouse? There is a panel house in Pécs, my colleague Lóránt Keresztes, where a wind turbine works on a project-like basis, and it works very well, and the people who live there are practically thrown together from their own pockets and provide adequate energy for that residential building. So you can think about such things, not necessarily in huge wind farms, but also in wind turbines that can be fitted to rooftops. I think that it is not a good thing to compare the direction in which individual European countries or countries in other parts of the world are going with regard to their energy mix. I think we need to take our own path on this issue. We need to look at Hungary's potential, its economic potential, how we can switch, let's say, from nuclear energy to the use of full renewable energy over time. Obviously, it's a long process, but it's certainly not forward-looking. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's comparing ourselves with others. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-143	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to reply to my fellow Member Nacsa, and I hope that his fellow Members will give it to him, because, without his own fault, he has now had to step out of the room. I think it is very important to say that it is not a shame or a crime for a Member to be uninformed, but I think it is right to expect it from a Member of Parliament... [[Lőrinc Nacsa enters the expert box.]] Here's my fellow Member. So it is not a crime to be uninformed, but I think it is right for a Member to expect it, especially if he uses information as an argument to be sufficiently informed. But in order not to get hurt, I'll tell you quickly, on a list level, what happened to these trees. After a storm, a tree fell out of a tree line, after which it was ordered to examine the health of the trees. Then the XII. The notary of the district ordered the cutting of trees in view of the state of health of the trees. Annex XII is replaced by the following: It was ordered by the notary of the district, and this was done before the municipal elections. I would like to point out that this tree cutting served the safety of students studying in nearby schools, even if this process had started during the Fidesz city leadership, because there was a danger that these trees, because of their own health, would have rotted from the inside, could have fallen on the garden of the neighboring school. I think that the need to be informed must be very keen on you, which is why I told you this. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-144	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-145	Ladies and gentlemen, One question remained open after Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech, which relates to the purchasing of Hungarian agricultural land by foreigners. Let us record that, together, we can explicitly record it, because we discussed several points of the land law before it was adopted, but we can say that this Hungarian land law does not allow foreigners to buy land in Hungary, and this kind of transaction has not taken place since 2014. In fact, pocket contracts are being liquidated on an increasing number of occasions. Another point: thank you for confirming my fellow opposition Members that the government has implemented a noticeable public building modernisation programme. This is important not only because of what my fellow Member Nacsa said, but also from the point of view of thinking, these are the largest public institutions, schools, kindergartens, social and cultural facilities where the approach of those who go there can be shaped, shaped and made important for them to reduce emissions through savings and energy savings. [[17.40]] A third point concerns wind power plants. I'm on the edge of the Kisaland. If I work in the vineyard, I can see almost all the wind turbines to Győr. Not everyone is pleased to see it, especially if you look at it from the mountain, the members of the Avian Society sometimes comment that birds don't like it either. These are all noteworthy comments, but more importantly, they require balancing energy to be put into a system with a larger capacity. However, quick response balancing energy can only be provided by gas-based power plants, and this is our energy dependence, I am quite certain that it cannot alleviate it, although I would beware of interfering with elephants' wedding dances. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is the legacy of the pact between Schröder and Putin between Germany and Russia. Let's settle this between you and me, so we don't get involved in this. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-147	I must make a brief comment on this, honourable Member. You say that it is much better to depend entirely on the Russians through nuclear energy than to produce a major part or a significant part of the capacity from the wind, and otherwise we are somewhat dependent on the gas, where otherwise the purchase can be diversified. I don't understand that logic any more than you do. But that is not why I asked for the floor, but because, unfortunately, Congressman Nacsa is a member of Group III. It is also wrong with regard to the district because they forget the fact that the tree cutting permit on the basis of which the BKV cut down trees for an investment was issued by the previous municipality during the mayorship of Balázs Bús. This authorisation shall not be revoked. What we managed to achieve through negotiations was that 10 trees out of 25 were saved. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-21-148	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group.
u2020-04-21-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd also like to clear up a loose end. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant produces Hungarian electricity in Hungary today and in the future with Russian technology, which can be used by Hungarians and foreigners during export production. The Paks II. During its establishment and preparation, the European Union had a lengthy procedure, which was a very important element of the procedure, and the authorisation, so to speak, was one of the conditions for granting approval, to ensure that the fuel supplier could change during the investment. So we're going to build a Paks nuclear power plant where, if it's decided that we don't want to put in a Russian fuel, but another type, which isn't Russian, then that's an option. This is justified by market conditions and security of supply conditions. The new nuclear power plant will be able to do that. The current can't do that, no doubt. It should also be added that the storage of fuel, i.e. the number of fuel ordered, is approximately, if I remember correctly, at least one year of operation, but it may have to be sufficient for a longer period of time in the nuclear power plant. So from this point of view, the approach that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant producing Hungarian electricity in Hungary increases our dependence on the Russians precisely because there is a possibility and a way, a technical way to change the supplier of the heating element, who is not Russian. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just to put his third lie in place for our fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, as far as tree cuttings are concerned: in 2015 in Zuglo, the BVSC ordered the wood cuttings, the president of which was Kristóf Szatmáry Fidesz representative. By the way, according to the professional opinion, they were old poplar trees, but I don't want to get into this, so let's discuss this among ourselves, and I would just like to ask that the dignity of the Parliament be preserved, such pathetic fidesz propaganda fake news should not be brought in in such a number in the future. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-21-152	Dear Parliament, We now have to speak in a normal time frame, because we had to quickly look at the books and see how many times we have heard them. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-153	Mr President, Dear House, In order to reassure the public, it's probably not gonna take more than three or four minutes for me to say. [[Defiance.]] I would also like to thank our fellow Member Benchik for his reaction to the land law. I would add that my fellow Member's words and feeling of life reassured me much more than what happened in reality and could happen again, since it is no coincidence that Jobbik used to occupy a pulpit if we remember before the adoption of the land law; we felt that the threat to national strategy and to Hungarians was such that we felt that it was our moral duty to do so. I think I can say with my mind today that this wasn't an exaggerated reaction on our part. On the one hand, it was very worthwhile to beat the quotes palaver in order for the government to pay attention to where to pay attention, and the Benetton case and other related cases show that they are foreign interests, if not with the direct possibility of acquiring direct ownership, but they tried to set foot in Hungary. If you are going through the Guard now, as my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó mentioned, he also has direct experience of the region, the edge of Zala, and I, too, can see that certain districts are a kind of Austrian outsourced province. The direct owner may not be an Austrian or German party, but what we can see is that from the point of view of use, it can be said that aliens are using the Hungarian land for decades, and then the judgment of history will decide that you or we will be right in terms of ownership. I really hope not, because I don't want any clots in the hands of strangers, not even indirectly. On the other hand, in terms of energy efficiency, I feel that the most neglected area, where there is a huge problem, is the issue of housing crisis, not only because, in happier historical times, until 20-30 years ago, housing costs were largely included either in a man's earnings or in the two family-supporters' earnings, so some housing costs were treated as part of everyday costs. This has ceased in the future, and today's cataclysm-like conditions are caused by the fact that these costs are inexhaustible many times, and we also see that we welcome, of course, the modernisation of public institutions, but I think there is agreement between us that it is worth opening up to the family house segment. We also discussed this with Mr. Secretary of State, and I have heard very good things. But I must say that these processes can be started now, in the present, because what is listed here by Secretary of State Schanda, I must say, in addition to my best intentions, is insufficient and insufficient. Whether in terms of the CSOK, the village CSOK, family tax incentives or the family support system, I do not want to use too strong a word, but these can typically affect 100 percent from the upper middle class. And to think that these preferences and blessings from the upper middle class will come down to all social groups, this is chemically pure neoliberalism, which has not happened anywhere in the world. Neither are we looking forward to it in Hungary, because there is no operating model that proves that this expectation would be successful. I would prefer to encourage the secretary of state and all present pro-governments to change this optics, not just try to act upward from the upper middle class, to favour it. Let's say, in terms of the CSOK, it is incomprehensible to me that the available amount of the preferential loan will be increased in an amazing way, we welcome it, okay, but the volume of support is quite simply unattainable to the extent necessary for a young person in a typical living situation. A lot of people have collected a part of CSOK with LTP, Fundamenta, a state-supported tool, whose state leg has been kicked out by this government, and we see that a lot of young people who are unable to buy a newly built residential property with the help of CSOK can't afford a large amount of support for the real estate used, they can only obtain credit, but the state support of LTP has already been abolished to collect their own share. What did you suggest instead, Secretary of State? Antal Rogán's house lotto. [[17.50]] It seems to me that a large number of social groups have not yet reached home in Hungary through this housing lotto scheme, and I would therefore like to ask you not to choose between social groups in a selective way, to try to make the discount mass and the support mass available. At the same time, this whole system must also be opened from the direction of new real estate to the purchase of used property. In many cases, even the expansion of a family house for a whole generation provides a living space, an opportunity, even a surface and an area for childbearing. What we need to see is that opening up to used property mass together with an energy efficiency programme will also be the basis for a demographic turnaround, as Hungary has deteriorated for every demographic indicator in the last ten years. This government has come to call this area rhetorically important, and I welcome that, because I think it is the most serious issue of Hungarian fate. Unfortunately, we're falling in terms of all the indicators. The number of marriages is not a demographic indicator by profession. We welcome this growth, even if it is mainly due to the fact that it is significantly easier to achieve the government's family support as a married couple, and even to achieve certain forms, but we have unfortunately seen worsening trends in demographic indicators, the number of live births, the number of deaths and the fertility rate of all three in recent years. I wish that wasn't the case, if only the fertility index could go up to, say, 1,7-1.8, then we could see a much more perspective future. The fact is that these prospects are not yet visible to the Hungarian sky, so there is no demographic change yet. We have a lot in common, as long as we can talk about the faint ray of hope, the chance of that. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-154	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-21-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just so they don't think I'm on this windmill plate, I'm about to get off it, but we're still talking about an important topic. I would say to János Bencsik that I really think he should visit Mosonmagyaróvár. I know where you live, not because I've been looking into you, but I know where you live, I know what kind of power plants you see. But really, walk away, or don't walk, even though you can walk, but you'd rather drive to Mosonmagyaróvár and talk to the locals, really the inhabitants of the small settlements, about how much the operation of such a power plant is extra. Not to mention that the excuses you told me were still in place 10-15 years ago, but nowadays wind farms are made that are different in their material than those produced 10-15 years ago. On the other hand, there are already companies who can process the used elements, even these huge, huge elements. Thirdly, from the point of view of birds, power plants are now being built around the world that do not cause so much turbulence for these animals, so they do not change their trajectory, they do not hit these structures. I would also like to say that I was very fond of it ten years ago when Fidesz announced the program for the Hungarian rooftops, which, although it did not turn into anything, was a good direction, because it was a decentralised direction. What we see now is that we are also going towards centralization on this issue, as well as on the issue of energy production, and they want to make Hungarian households dependent on a central system, which is not a good direction. Hungarian households must be independent of this system and that is why renewable energy sources should be supported. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-156	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on the edge of my constituency is the last wind turbine in the easternmost tip of the Kisaland. The wind canal ends there, so no more wind turbines to the east. So it's the most effective place to convert wind energy into electricity. Once again, it is not necessarily a pleasure for everyone, not for farmers, nor for those living there to see and operate wind turbines, but it is a natural thing. I am not anti-wind energy, but the thing you have to see, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are thinking either of balancing power generation, so we must put the gas-based power plant, which can be launched quickly, which is one of them, and the other one is chemical storage. I raise this because it is a technical parameter, from time to time, and when we are talking about combating climate change, we are talking about renewable energy sources, we also need to be aware of the footprints of the different renewable energy technologies, the conditions under which we can put them into operation, and the chemical storage is about batteries, so that is a battery. Today there are batteries with more power than megawatts, but you have to see that it is also a dangerous technology. The demolition, recycling and disposal of this is a serious task, as my fellow Member has said, that a year or two ago... I add that here, in Hungary's context, the large shovels of the turbines that will be liquidated will not be recycled, but buried. So these details are very important and important details, which must always be discussed on a back and forth basis in order to establish a normal consensus. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to make use of the opportunity to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. Among the authors, Bence Tordai and László Keresztes wish to respond to what was said in the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am glad that we took this debate so seriously, and if nothing else, it was of so much use that we could talk about a little important and serious matters here in Parliament's chambers; if nothing else, the opposition representatives among themselves, respect for the few pro-government colleagues who waited until the end of the debate. I do not know how confident I can be, because we have heard the same phrases from the pro-government and government colleagues, which have so far, and which, as we well know, do not really cover reality, in vain speak of effective and committed action if the results prove otherwise. These statements sat about as much as our fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa's statements on three different tree cuttings, which we rejected individually. In the same way, we have rejected all other government propaganda claims one by one. The only fresh stain... and let me thank you once again for your presence and your comments to our Fidesz fellow Member János Bencsik, who, indeed, once there is a Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs in this government, we hope that you will take this well-deserved post, because the thoughts you have quoted here, either from Master Girl or from your own well head, will meet with the thoughts of those politicians who are committed to green affairs, such as Gergely Christmas, who said the same thing you said a few days earlier, that the economy should be for man and not the other way around. When it comes to crisis management, I hope that this lesson will be considered by the colleagues in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, as well as by the ministers, state ministers and the Prime Minister who make government decisions. It would be good if, even now, at the time of the emergency caused by the virus, whether in dealing with the economic and social crisis that followed it, or in dealing with the climate crisis and the ecological crisis, really had regard to the need for the economy to serve society, people, and not the other way around. So, in the hope that, if nothing else, at least these ideas will be rooted here, not only on the opposition side, I would like to thank all the opposition groups, Jobbik, LMP, DK, MSZP, again for expressing their credible and deep conviction that Hungary really needs a green turnaround. [[18.00]] I hope that nicely, slowly, not in a dangerous way, but in a more positive and productive way, but this thought will spread to the other side of the horseshoe. And if we discuss similar issues in a few months or even a year or two, then there will be real consistency, but not at the price that everyone in the system of national cooperation imagines agreeing with Viktor Orbán, no matter what he says, and no matter how contrary to himself he says, as we have seen over the past year on this subject, but at the same time that everyone really speaks and acts on issues related to sustainability in a manner that is committed to future generations and to today's generations. So in this hope, I give the floor to our co-presenter, László László Keresztes, and thank you for your patience.
u2020-04-21-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. If you'll allow me, I'll give you the floor. [[Defiance.]] László Lóránt Keresztes as rapporteur, so, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-21-161	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to start by thanking everyone for their active participation in this debate. There's no way I'd underestimate its significance. I think it is of great importance that a debate on this issue has begun, and it is very important that you have actively participated not only in opposition but also in pro-government representatives. We've seen them speak, argue, and Mr. Secretary of State didn't want to get away with a speech, but he didn't really convince us, he didn't convince us, he didn't convince us, but he took his part in the debate. This is definitely positive and forward-looking. It was also interesting I do not know whether my fellow Members have observed, or it has obviously been observed, that the fault lines did not necessarily appear to be opposition and party of government, because there was a fault, even among pro-government actors, or, say, Paks II. There are also disagreements between opposition parties on the subject, let us say, the use of nuclear energy. But it is very important that we have started a debate where there have been political strings and there have been seizures, especially from one of the factions, who have spoken only at political level, in order to try to conflict with professional arguments. I think that this is very, very exemplary, and it was a case that we should definitely follow in the future, that we have indeed been able to have a decisively professional debate for several hours, which is absolutely important. I am also very pleased that no one has questioned the importance of this debate and that we need to create legislation that will bring us closer to the action that has been mentioned here very, very much. On the issue of climate change, we have come to this point that no one is questioning the huge challenge, nor that we have very, very little time to act effectively in order to slow down the effects of this. There are obviously very serious debates about energy policy, as we say, with regard to the use of nuclear energy. What hurts the most, perhaps, in the past, several hours of debate, is what concerns economic policy. So when we talk about a kind of situation that has developed, and the consequence of the kind of economic policy that is followed not only by your government, but also by the government of the Balliberal period that preceded you, and unfortunately, this kind of liberal economic policy approach is dominant in Europe, so that we can break off with this in order to take meaningful steps to ensure a sustainable future. In order to accept everyone's socio-economic and environmental aspects, these spheres are not separated from each other. We see it, don't we, we have just talked about it, and the fight against epidemics, the protection of human life, and the economic firefighting, which is most important right now, but we have to accept that everything cannot continue as it has been before. So we cannot strive to restore the world economy to which the economic crisis caused by the epidemic is now showing its weaknesses. We believe that, to a much greater extent, we must build economic policy on self-sufficiency, regional cooperation, local production of the most important goods and products. Obviously, it will never be environmentally friendly if we transport mass products from a vast distance between continents. This should not be the case if we are talking about sustainability-based projects, see Budapest-Belgrád railway line. That's impossible. We must strive to produce everything as close as possible to our place of residence and thus develop a self-sufficient patriot economic policy. I would like us to be able, in the next period, to reach the point that at least the issues in which we can say that there is a broad consensus, we can also put it in a proposal for a resolution. Obviously, the two-thirds of the two-thirds, basically the two-thirds decision, will depend on what kind of legislation the Parliament will eventually adopt from these debates, but I am very confident that we can get to the point where some form of consensus can be formulated as a first step in the form of a proposal for a resolution, let us say, with the appropriate amendments, we can submit to the House in such a way that we can also accept it with a broad consensus. I think this would be a symbolic and very important step if we were to talk about the future building on sustainability. In the end, I would also like to thank the opposition factions for joining us on the proposal for a resolution prepared by the LMP, and I would also like to thank the Dialogue for presenting a bill, and also thank the pro-government voters for allowing us to hold this debate here in December, starting the debate on these very important issues. Thank you with all due respect for the opportunity.
u2020-04-21-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. General debate on the proposal to The government referral is T/10095. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, Secretary of State, from the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. The rapporteur on the agenda is Mr State Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-21-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The draft law before you is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. The Commission therefore considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. proposes to amend The current amendment to the Nuclear Power Act ensures compliance with EU law. We define the concept of temporary storage as regulated by law. For the sake of clarity, the definition of temporary storage is added to the draft by adding that the spent fuel and radioactive waste stored in the temporary storage must subsequently be placed in the disposal facility for final disposal. The Nuclear Power Act II. The amendment to the Annex to this Regulation provides for the possibility for the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of Interior to act as a fire-protection specialist in the construction and demolition of a nuclear installation and its use. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Dear Parliament, The bill before you includes, in addition to the Nuclear Energy Act, an amendment to the law on the implementation of EU customs law in relation to the treatment of customs secrecy. The Nuclear Power Act is supplemented by the provision that the National Tax and Customs Office shall send the document containing the secret of customs at the request of the Nuclear Power Supervisory Body, the National Atomic Energy Office. The processing of customs secrets is only possible in the cases provided for by law, i.e. when this is necessary for the purposes of the authorisation, control, supervision or registration of the nuclear energy monitoring body. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, Hungary fulfils its obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from its membership of the European Union. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I also welcome my fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-21-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill amending the Act of the Year on Nuclear Power before us and the Law of 17 on the implementation of the EU Customs Code, the essence of which is to clarify a concept and to bring it into line with other laws. [[18.10]] The bill therefore serves, in my view and in essence, a purpose of harmonisation so that we can comply with EU law. Dear House, Several discussions have been carried out with the European Commission in order to comply with Union law, in particular with Directive 2011/70/Euratom. The clarification of legal harmonisation aims at how and in what sense the definition of temporary storage in the nuclear law includes the possibility of final disposal of spent fuel and radioactive materials, which, according to the Commission, is not in line with the provisions of Directive 2011/70/Euratom. In the context of legal harmonisation, an amendment was proposed that the concept of temporary storage should be inserted in such a way that the spent fuel stored in the temporary storage and the radioactive waste should be placed in the disposal facility for subsequent final disposal. In order to ensure the transfer and management of customs secrets to the National Atomic Energy Agency as a nuclear supervisory body, it is necessary to supplement the provisions of the Nuclear Law and the 2017 Union Customs Code Act. According to the proposed amendment of the nuclear law, upon request of the OAH, the National Tax and Customs Office shall send the customs secret which is necessary for the performance of its functions of licensing, control, supervision or registration. On the basis of a supplement to the 2017 EU Customs Code Act, the NAV will then have 30 days to inform the National Atomic Energy Office of the content of the customs secrets necessary for the performance of its tasks. Dear Parliament, The T/10095. In addition, the National Atomic Energy Office ensures the professional involvement in certain official procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office, and ensures consistency with the 2017 law on the implementation of EU customs law, and also gives the National Atomic Energy Office the authority to manage and understand customs confidentiality in connection with the performance of its tasks. In light of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction, and I trust that in the debate we can really focus on what the draft law is about, which is a harmonisation of legislation, and we will not go into the debates on the need for nuclear energy, because that is not what this bill is about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-166	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-04-21-167	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Let me ask you this: why are we dealing with this bill now? Because in Hungary, Pakson is currently operating a nuclear power plant, this proposal is by no means linked to who's opinion on whether we want to maintain this power plant capacity in 2035 or not. However, we have discussed this in a clear and legitimate way at the previous item, so the person who is arriving may think that a new topic is being raised by extending the debate to what we have been discussing here for some hours. And to what extent I think that this is a proposal to be supported, either for the supporters of the maintenance of nuclear power plant capacity or for the opponents, let me say that the directive, which we are now putting in place, contains the following text:, This Directive establishes a Community framework to ensure responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, in order to avoid undue burdens for future generations. The Directive ensures that Member States apply appropriate national standards to ensure a high level of nuclear safety in the context of spent fuel and radioactive waste management in order to protect the public and workers from hazards. The directive provides for the necessary information and participation of the population... and so on. I believe that I agree and support this directive not only because it is a legal harmonisation obligation, but it is very important in the context of what I said briefly about the content of the directive. I would not consider it fortunate, but, of course, everyone has the right to restart the previous debate. Therefore, I will finish here, but I may be forced to participate in it, which depends on the discretion of the fellow Members. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-168	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Andras Aradski, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-21-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In fact, there are various thrills about this bill because the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. It is a matter of amending the law, and in relation to the previous agenda, it was noticeable that if it starts with the, and the end ends with, the word is always of sufficient interest and sufficient combat from the opposition. For my part, I can understand this, and we can have substantial debates on how nuclear energy is used, on its appropriateness, and on how energy production can be resolved in such a way as to produce clean energy, but that is not the case here. There is a need for amendment in the context of an EU directive, namely the definition of the concept of temporary storage. I must add that the Euratom Directive entered into force in 2011. Then, if I remember correctly, and I remember correctly, the legislative harmonisation measures in line with the directive were taken by the then parliament, prepared by the then government, and accepted by Parliament, and thus created an adequate content to fulfil a task of harmonisation. However, it is true that the Commission has the right to keep track of how a directive is implemented and harmonised. The Commission has noticed recently that Directive 2011/70/Euratom does not comply with the provisions of Article 2 of the Nuclear Act. The concept of temporary storage as defined in point 40 of Article 40. I have to say here that it is possible to have grammatical and interpretational debates, but I think that the author has quite rightly decided that there is no place for discussion on this issue, because the substance of the content is what is the concept of temporary storage, and what the European Commission, the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament want to understand more, because it can be something that has been clear to us so far, but the definition set out in the current bill is clearer, and I think there is no obstacle to this clarification. Further additions to the nuclear law were initiated by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Interior intends to include the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection as a fire protection authority, while the Ministry of Finance intended to apply EU-approved legislation on nuclear law. [[18.20]] The content of the legislation presented earlier fully serves the purpose of the nuclear law, and I can therefore say that the Christian Democratic People's Party, accepting the Commission's initiative, will support the amendment of the nuclear law to these three things, accepting the government's position. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-170	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-04-21-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Let me say to Mr Aradski that I am not nervous, so we have no excitement. I do not wish to reopen the wonderful and fantastic debate that we have heard in the last few hours. I didn't get in on it, I was just actively listening, so I'd like to take this opportunity to tell everyone that it was a really high-quality and exciting debate. And since the audience has changed a bit compared to this morning, when I had the pleasure of making more constructive comments on important topics, let me say that it is nice that the Hungarian Parliament is meeting in difficult times, and at least the few pro-government representatives who get to watch TV will be able to tell CNN, BBC and Euronews that this democracy is here. So it's like I said this morning, Nacsa... I'm sorry, so it's like cheap bacon on Christmas: it also contains traces of cocoa. We are here now, too, that we are actually here, we are meeting, and if this motion had not been done by opposition representatives, this climate protection issue, we could actually say that it would have been a rather flat parliamentary day. But it's not that, of course, that's what I wanted to say here. Still, I'd like to get into the content of the matter a little bit. I think it's very, very funny that there's a bill in points, and the justification actually contains the same thing. So the justification is not a justification, but it repeats the text. Then, in his text, Minister of State, he said that it is necessary to request customs secrecy because it is necessary to register... And he's telling us the same thing, and we still don't know why it's actually a simple question in this area to turn to the NAV and to know the secret of customs. So what we're seeing is that this snake is spinning around and around, and we don't know what it is in this area that the Atomic Energy Agency wouldn't otherwise know. I'll tell you honestly, from this very thorough bill that I'm going to present to the public. [[He's showing me a document.]] It doesn't really turn out to be the simple thing. The second question is why BM needs to be suddenly involved in this matter. What do they know, which, by the way, have not been known by the control and licensing authorities so far? So what has happened in the past, which makes the government think now that disaster management has something extra to do and have to do in this case? But overall, I'd like to say that I really don't want to get into the way that we've all been shaking our heads here, that nothing is connected to anything and everything is connected to everything, so this is just one of those sudden jamming bill proposals. All right, but then tell me what this customs secret really is and what BM's disaster management really has to do with these nuclear energy issues. For our part, if we receive thorough answers to these questions, we are ready, after further consideration, to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-172	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-04-21-173	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I believe that when it comes to such an important issue as the role of the National Atomic Energy Office, the placement of nuclear waste, it is important to say what the content issue is, what is the challenge that we are facing not only at national level, but also at the level of the European Union. There is no way I would like to go back to the issue of Paks enlargement, but at the same time it is necessary to talk about these issues. At this point on the agenda, I have had a bit of a hold on myself, and I have no longer responded to Mr Aradski's speech, and I would certainly like to respond to one moment. We have noted that dependence on Russians on the expansion of Paks is a problem in the purchase of fuel. And then he said it was okay, because the system is designed to be replaceable, so the Russians aren't the only ones who can deliver fuel. Now, we know that this Paks expansion is in such an inexplicable delay, so in many, many years of delay, and when last summer at the final meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Minister Süli had a ministerial hearing, I asked him when the authorisation procedure was expected to start, asked the minister, and he said he had no idea he couldn't guess. He also said that the Russians are studying the domestic technical environment. This is about building a nuclear power plant, isn't it? So the Russians are studying the domestic technical environment. We know that it is a huge challenge to produce such a huge, thousands of pages of documentation, so how realistic it will be that if the Russians build the new power plant, then another supplier will be able to bring fuel after that year. That's all I wanted to get back to that. However, I would like to make much more comments on the issue of nuclear waste management. The Secretary of State also made some statements in the previous debate, and since not all the information is available in the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, I would like to draw attention to these problems. He said, Mr Secretary, that there was no decision to build an underground geological storage facility in Hungary. I would like to draw your attention to the updated strategy, which has been adopted by the National Assembly, the National Programme for the Management of Nuclear Fuels, which includes the need to build a deep-geological storage facility in Hungary. And it is also included in this agreed strategy that this research takes place in Boda, the Bodai Claystone Formation. So that's the way it was decided. Besides, it would be dangerous not to have made a decision, because now more than 10 billion forints have been spent in Boda's area for research. So obviously spending ten billion forints without a decision would raise a few questions. He also mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, that all the municipalities concerned will be involved and informed according to the law. There is a municipal association for such information, which is indeed receiving various subsidies from the nuclear waste management company. At the same time, it is not part of this company Pécs, the nearby town of Szentlőrinc and many other municipalities, these settlements are only informed in this informal way, after otherwise fought out by local political actors in parentheses, I note the local LMP to receive information. However, they do not count as affected settlements, since the already cited amendment of the nuclear law excluded, for example, Pécs from being a member of this company in relation to the area 6-8 kilometers from the western border when looking for the location of a nuclear cemetery. That's not acceptable at all. And here I draw attention to a serious contradiction. At the end of April 2015, Prime Minister Pécs said that without the Pécs it would not be possible to build a nuclear cemetery. I believe that a Prime Minister has the opportunity to make such a declaration that Pécs is involved. If Pécs is involved, why is he not a member of this partnership, which can formally participate in this process? I would like to draw attention to another problem. Mr Secretary of State said that these researches, research on the location of the final storage of nuclear waste, are carried out on the basis of international experience. Yes, we are talking about a question of harmonisation of laws, a European challenge, I would add, this is a challenge all over the world to what to do with high-activity nuclear waste, and it has not been settled anywhere in the world. And international examples bear witness to many things. It is not about how to solve it, because no one has yet been able to provide a definitive sample, but it is about the fact that there are international examples, and I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry and the Government to this very strongly. International examples show that what cannot be done is investing in a given potential area of insane money, ignoring social and economic realities, and then, if the affected population in the region says that they do not want it, that money goes to waste. One example in the United States was that the city of Las Vegas prevented the opening of a nuclear waste storage facility, prepared and built in the Yucca Mountains, 130 kilometres away, on economic and social issues. They were specifically afraid of tourism in the city. Therefore, international experience that is based on the existence of geological, technically suitable potential sites should be considered as a guide in this respect, and these should first be assessed from a social point of view where this is acceptable to the population concerned. So from a socio-economic point of view, they must be evaluated, and after having a social acceptance, then start this site research, an extremely long process. And what other decisions were made here in connection with the Bodai Claystone Formation: in February of last year, perhaps there was a public hearing in Boda, where the heads of the National Atomic Energy Office were also present, and they acknowledged this literal record that there were serious social problems. [[18.30]] In particular, the nearby agglomeration of Pécs rejects this project, and the current heads of the National Atomic Energy Office have said that they indicate this serious problem to the decision makers in this case. Now, after this has been recorded, this signal has not been made, or I do not know exactly what happened, but it is certain that after that this research laboratory, which has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, was granted a permit to research sites. So now we're in this phase. We are not yet at the point where anyone has asked the opinion of the city of Pécs and the whole region what they think about the establishment of such a high-activity reservoir. So 10 billion forints has already gone this way. Now I feel that the government does not have a problem with the fact that for long or long years more billions of people will go to research, with the Prime Minister very clearly stating that Pécs has a right and a veto right to do so, but for some reason they do not want to ask the people in the city. And that is where certain aspects that the Secretary of State has also said come in that he can make a political decision on professional matters. That's a tough political issue, Mr. Secretary. At the time, when we organised a professional forum with the participation of the experts of the company concerned, they made it clear that they were responsible for their professional part; that if they received an instruction from politics to explore a potential site in this area, such as the Bodai Claystone Formation, they would do so. If they are given a political decision to explore five other alternative locations, which is better in terms of social and economic conditions, they will also do so. So we always refer this question to the Parliament because these are hard-core, slick political issues, and these political decisions must be taken by the Parliament in charge, and the experts must be instructed to re-evaluate where research is carried out, taking into account the social and economic aspects of the people, among the potentially technical and geologically suitable areas in Hungary. So, on the whole, I think that these issues should be discussed now, and these questions should be brought in to the Parliament now. If the government takes the local government seriously and takes seriously that it does not wish to go against the will of the people, it will take into account the decision of the Municipality of Pécs County, which states that it does not support the establishment of a nuclear cemetery on the western border of the city. I therefore urge the government to present such a document to the Parliament and to have a substantive debate about how these research processes can really go in a direction that can end up with a deep-geological repository, the social and economic effects of which are clearly negative, can be managed in the longer term. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-174	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to János Volner as an independent representative.
u2020-04-21-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been used to the question of nuclear power for a long time now that it is practically a red post for the left, whatever it is, whether it is a modification of a detailed rule, constantly looking for weaknesses and objections, trying to prevent everything related to the expansion, renewal or even further operation of the nuclear power plant. In this context, in which left-wing and liberal fellow Members have so far examined the whole issue, it can be established that on one side there are left-wing and liberal responsible politicians, who are environmentally conscious, see the future, see that the Earth must be handed over to the other generation, at least for the next generation as we have received it, but in better condition; on the right there are populists and demagogues, by the way, these two words are regularly linked in the use of the word of the balliberal press, who do not deal with the future at all, who do not invade anything at all, no knowledge or money. Technically, this is a clash of these two forces, where on one side there are progressive leftists, who know everything, on the other hand, the left-wingers, who know nothing and are irresponsiblely eager to pollute our environment. What is worth my fellow Members to know in this bill is that everything began in the same way as in this bill in Germany, which ended with the fact that when the Germans banned nuclear power plants and restricted them, several nuclear power plants were shut down, 1100 deaths in one year were linked to the increase in air pollution caused by the return to coal fire, taking people away from various respiratory diseases. So it's fair to say that dark green stupidity has led to death. This could be the summation of this very briefly. So I would suggest to my fellow Members that you be very careful about these issues, because this could be a serious damage to human lives that you are doing here day by day. That misinformation campaign you're running on this nuclear issue, it's just amazing. Let me give you some information for the sake of my fellow Members, some specific information on how Hungary's energy balance stands and why it is important that the nuclear power plant continues to operate. By the way, I am not encouraging the government to build two more nuclear power stations, but two more, two more are being built in addition to the existing two, and we would need two more to ensure that Hungary's energy balance takes a sustainable direction. Let me quote some data, fellow Members, just to make them aware of the gravity of the situation and the frivolity of the so-called dark green ideas. Last December 5th, at 4:45 p.m., Hungary's consumption reached an energy record, and we never used as much electricity as we did then. Hold on, fellow Members, and I'll give you the data. Last December 5th, at 4:45 p.m., the country used 7105 megawatts of electricity. I am telling you now, fellow Members, how much green ideas are in the reality of thank you and how much they are not. During this period, solar power plants, which any of the green parties would like to install in an amazing number, provided Hungary with 9 megawatts of energy. So once again, just to put the numbers next to each other: we needed this much energy consumption in Hungary, 7105 megawatts, and all the solar power plants that operated on the Hungarian capacities gave us 9 megawatts of this total power. So if my fellow Members were trying to think on a systemic basis, and their theory was not only that the sun was shining, the wind was blowing, we would solve everything with this, they would see that this would simply not work. The other thing I would like to mention, my fellow Members, is that I see virtually a collective irresponsible situation, which is also partly true of the governing parties, which are pro-nuclear on this whole issue, and this is the share of energy imports. I have complained a lot about the fact that in Hungary we closed one power plant after another, and we are currently buying a large part of the electricity from imports. This record was set last year, by the way. On May 30, at 6:30 p.m., the country purchased 2987 megawatts of electricity. The total load during this period was 5135 megawatts on the Hungarian network. It can therefore be seen that Hungarian energy imports are extremely high. Therefore, I simply cannot understand why it cannot be an honest, sound, well-founded, professionally founded debate on this issue. I simply do not see it, and we have never had a Green Party agreement where I would have seen that this nuclear power plant could be triggered by renewable energy. Well, everyone is aware of the characteristics of Hungary; I will not go through it because it was linked to the previous item on the agenda. The Hungarian people said no to Bős-Nagymaros, this failed with the change of regime. The hydro-energy project is basically going through, it's not gonna work. Our wind power capacity is far from as good as Denmark's, which is a country in this area. In addition, it can still be heated with biomass; some of the greens object to biomass heating and the other part cheers for renewable energy. This is the ongoing debate within the European Union. So there is simply a need for energy from one side of society, which is not decreasing, but is constantly growing, because electric transport is practically in the gate, ahead of a real revolution, and on the other side it should be met at systemic level. When you see that out of 7105 megawatts of energy, solar power plants provide 9 megawatts within a country, it is very easy to see that this cannot be the way of the future. [[18.40]] I therefore call on my fellow Members to take responsibility for the issue of the nuclear power plant, to support the bill before us, which I believe does not want anything bad. However, I would like to draw attention to one thing, and I am very sorry that this does not happen in these debates. German technology allows low-activity radioactive waste to be demolished and neutralized without being buried underground. This is specifically about the workers' clothes, protective gloves, and the rest. This is a rather costly thing, as it is currently placed in large quantities in underground storages in terms of volume and extent. I propose to the government to address this issue, to contact German colleagues, because I believe that this issue can be resolved at a much cheaper rate, with less resistance from the public, and that this radioactive waste can be neutralized by taking over German technology. It's completely unnecessary to put it in underground storage at a high cost. On the whole, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal before us is worthy of support, and I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to responsible behaviour. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-176	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2020-04-21-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will try to be quick, and I will try and convince Congressman Gyula Molnár to support this bill after all. I don't know if I can do this with the length of my answer or the contents of it, but I'm pushing for both aspects. On the one hand, it's a matter of customs secrecy. This is a regulatory issue that the National Atomic Energy Office simply cannot have access to this information for legal reasons if it does not have the leg of law, and this is necessary in order to be able to perform its activities in a certain and reliable manner. The second question concerned the fire protection powers of the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection. This has been the case before, and it has been removed from the legislation for a short time, and we would now like to put it back in order to ensure that investments can be carried out without any problems and that the current situation is also safer. I would be less inclined to attempt to convince the Member, with whom we have already had a serious debate on this, but allow some sentences. On the one hand, the Paks II. The project is not slippery, there is only as much slippage as caused by the European Commission, otherwise the project is on schedule. The heating element can be purchased from anywhere, there is no need for any relation, basically it can be purchased on the free market. Perhaps his most important question was the question of the nuclear cemetery, which I tried to answer at the previous point. Allow me not to repeat the arguments I made there, but I must stress that there is no decision here. And that should calm you down. There's no such thing as a period of political decision here. It's not that. The point is that it is even suitable for that place, it is suitable for that area to be able to place this type of waste there. In this regard, I have also said before that this could be a decades-old investigation, which needs to be carried out, and so far there is no decision point. When there is a decision point, a decision will be made before the National Assembly to enter the next phase of research or investigation in order to set up a research lab. By the way, such labs have already been established in Sweden and Finland, everyone who is involved is making progress in this deep geological research area. However, what I would like to emphasise here is that there is a place in Hungary that is suitable for this and that the Boda site is suitable for this, it is a purely professional issue. The political question follows when we know, professionally, that it is suitable or not suitable. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, Congressman. All I would ask is that we agree that you are right and that we need a political decision. And when we get to the point where this is necessary, this political decision must be made by the Parliament. In the meantime, let the professionals do their job and let them do all this by, of course, fulfilling their obligation to provide information. It seems that the information needs to be further enhanced so that we can say and see and know the fact that this is a professional issue and that a substantive decision on the implementation of the investment will be taken later. I wouldn't waste any more time, but I'm confident I've won at least a partial victory in support of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes.
u2020-04-21-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Since Gyula Molnár has brought up sugar and the state of parliament and Hungarian democracy on this issue for the second time and I was unable to respond to it the other day, I would like to express my regret on the one hand about the gastronomic experiences you have had so far, and I hope that next year you will be able to buy better sugar. On the other hand, I would like to say that we should not be telling CNN, Euronews and everyone else that the Hungarian Parliament is functioning, if you hadn't spread it three weeks ago that it didn't work, we want to close it down, and Viktor Orbán will suspend the operation of the Hungarian Parliament. If you hadn't spread these things, that wouldn't be necessary. The Hungarian Parliament does not work so that we can say these things, but it works so that we can adopt more important and obviously minor laws and prepare for the period after the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. The Secretary of State has already replied twice to Congress on nuclear cemetery, and I just want to say how long this process is and how no decision is yet made: the site you spoke about started your first soil examination in 1992, from there until now. So it's been under constant investigation for 28 years, and it's still gonna be for a couple of years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-180	Thank you, Congressman. Now we're going to have regular comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2020-04-21-181	Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, I must say to Congressman Volner that he left in the meantime that he did not deny the stereotypes that he had brought up at the beginning. Of course, it is true that I do not think that all right-wing politicians would be demagogic about environmental issues, but this is also true in person from this speech. I think that the potential of solar energy should not be judged from a late afternoon or evening in December. And if you had been involved in the morning debate, there would not only have been a way to hear a number of solutions on how to maintain a renewable energy mix. By the way, if you read the government's energy strategy, you can also find a scenario that includes a feasible and sustainable energy mix without nuclear power. So, I have to say that if you had been informed, you would have had a way to know that there are solutions to these problems. But these are real problems, it's worth talking about. Demagogy begins when we pretend there's only one way to do this, nuclear power. Impressive was the recent intervention by Secretary of State Schanda, in which he repeated the same sentence already contained in the law, that it was necessary to amend the law on your tax secret so that the authority could obtain the customs secret. The same is stated in the reasoning of the proposal, which is what he said in his presentation, and when he asked Mr Gyula Molnár why the Atomic Energy Agency needed customs secrecy, his reply was that he needed it. Well, thank you very much, but that still doesn't give us any complete comfort as to why the Atomic Energy Agency actually needs customs secrets. The reason I'm a little suspicious about this, and this bill in general, is because we're a little bit like this story, the relationship between the security of government and nuclear power, as in the classic joke, that the excellent Soviet worker always takes the cooling machine parts home from the refrigerator factory to put together at home, but somehow it always becomes a tank. [[18.50]] Well, that's what we're saying, the government is always hitting on the safety of nuclear power, and somehow it's always gonna be Putin Paks II's investment, no matter how they get started, no matter how they start. Because, dear fellow Members and dear Secretary of State, let us now believe that you are really concerned about the safety of nuclear power, and your main problem is how to comply with the relevant directive, and that is why you are introducing a legislative amendment? While you asked for an exception to the rule that you can't start construction until you have the permits. You sent a draft regulation to Brussels in order to avoid the relevant EU rules; and before you have permission to invest in Paks II, let them start digging up a big hole for the nuclear power plant. Dear Secretary of State, Lords! Dear fellow Members, Let's not be naive, let's not think that, suddenly, the desire to harmonise legislation has really taken hold of the government. In any case, I think that at least we would expect a stronger justification and a fair explanation in order to believe that there really are such innocent and peaceful intentions here. We still do not understand why the government does not invest this energy in what it invests in avoiding EU regulations as well as in Paks II. why not use it to develop renewable energy instead. We'd all be better off, the country and I think in the long run, too. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-182	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2020-04-21-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I take into account the request of the Fidesz Members, unlike János Volner, and I do not want to go into the nuclear versus renewable energy debate here. I know you're afraid of this debate. I joined the previous panel, and I saw that they weren't very convincing. Mr János Volner is only here to pay attention to the fact that he is unfortunately not here, but I am sure that he will read back in the minutes the Green Hungary travel plan, in the editing of former MEP Benedek Jávor. He explains point by point how renewable energy can be used in Hungary without nuclear power. So I'd like to talk briefly about the bill. We agree with him that the ability to understand customs secrets should include the nuclear equipment and additional parts that Rosatom has brought to Hungary, so there is no debate in this, and we can support this. In the bill, however, there's a very strange sentence that I might have a difficult view of. I asked our experts, and they were a little odd about the text in the bill. On our part, it is our assumption that this will blur temporary and permanent storage if we talk about radioactive waste, and I suspect that too. So I don't know the Fidesz as if it feels so strongly that if the European Union signals any problems of harmonisation, it must be brought into Parliament suddenly, quickly, in an epidemic situation, and we must decide on this. So I'm starting to wonder why this is necessary. But I'm telling you, if this sentence could be clarified and explained by the Secretary of State. This is said, as the author has already read, that the concept of temporary storage should be supplemented by the addition of spent fuel and radioactive waste stored in the temporary storage to a permanent disposal facility for the purpose of subsequent disposal. That sentence, I hope, doesn't mean the final storage will become a temporary storage, does it? Because we don't understand the need for this temporary storage. According to the EU standards, these two types of storage are subject to radically different standards in the international standard. So it's not quite clear what this is all about, but it's really possible that we're the only ones who are misinterpreting this sentence. So if there's an acceptable explanation for this, I'm asking you to come up with it. So we agree to get to know customs, but Paks II. Its structure is far from the point of view that Parliament should now make a decision on this. Secretary of State Schanda said that Paks II. There's no slippage. The most important paper for the construction of reactors, the installation permit, is missing, so much so that the licence application is not submitted. I wouldn't say it's not late. And here we have the right to question exactly what kind of Russian goods you want to declare urgently, which is why it has to come in now. So we really want to know that this is the issue that needs to be dealt with here in the middle of the epidemic. I don't want to open this debate. We could also argue about what 300 billion forints have gone to without a permit to set up. Therefore, it would be our respectful request that until the permits are ready, no more spending on Paks II if possible, so we should at least wait for the permits. So if we could clarify this issue of temporary and permanent storage, we would calm down and even consider supporting this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-184	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to State Secretary Pál Kovács.
u2020-04-21-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I apologize for not speaking to him before, but I thought that these questions should now be corrected. First of all, the storage of waste. Allow me to make the misunderstanding possible by the Commission, that, of course, they wanted to make sure that the small and medium-activity deep-geological waste storage facility already in place in Hungary did not mix with the future high-activity waste storage facility. And we're talking high-activity waste. It is important to know that there is already a functioning facility in Bátaapáti, which was the great result of the Orbán government in 2010-2014 that it could start operating in 2013. Thus, the issue of radioactive waste management, the question of disposal, can be considered as being resolved. Of course, high-activity waste has begun... we are talking about decommissioning waste and part of in-service waste, which is a very small amount and the fate of the future spent fuel. With regard to the fate of future fuel, it is important to note that here this principle is called "do and see" by doing it, doing research and following what new results are being made in the field of research and development, and this policy is being pursued by us in national waste policy. So we're going to see what happens to future high-activity waste. High-activity waste will in any case be produced, and we must take care of it responsibly. So we need to find the right rock, the right inclusive formation, that we must be able to place within the country, in accordance with international conventions. Another question is that for example, these are the equipment that will be removed during decommissioning, such as the reactor tank, the primary pipelines, or the steam generator. For example, the Finns and the Swedes plan to do this by placing the Finns, for example, directly at the site in the case of the Locisa nuclear power plant, because the power plant was built on a granite rock, it will be placed in that granite. The laboratory is already ready, the reception areas in which these equipment can be placed are ready, and even experiments are being made on how to manage the placement on a minimum scale. This is also one of the main goals in our area as to how we can keep radioactive waste at a minimum level. So since Bátaapáti has the storage of small and medium-activity waste, in this, I understand that four channels, four reception rooms, have been completed. The first one was complete, and the final closure could take place soon. Until then, of course, they are looking for waste compacting technologies and concrete elements, which will also need to be agreed on how their waterproofing capabilities and others work in the long term. Also, the Public Use Society, which manages radioactive waste, and now Kft. how to find additional space-saving solutions in the disposal of waste, thus placing in smaller barrels in a more compact way the same quantity as that which has been done in concrete barrels to make the use of space as good as possible. [[19.00]] So the second channel, the second space, the mine, has begun to be filled, and the third mine is also ready as a cut, because before we plant radioactive waste in one part of the space, a reserve mine must be available, and the fourth mine is being drilled now. Its capacity is fully capable of serving the Paks I project. So this could probably be the argument on the part of Brussels that they wanted to clarify why it should be in the final containers, because they didn't want that if there was a deep-geological storage, the low- and medium-activity deep-geological storage shouldn't mix, shouldn't be the same as the high-activity waste storage. So the reason for this clarification is just this, nothing else. What else was the question? [[He's looking in his notes.]] I guess that's it, then.
u2020-04-21-186	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-21-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his comments. I'm trying to respond to a lot of things. The debate is relevant, so there is still a nuclear power plant, the issue of disposal of future waste is current, regardless of whether Paks II is being built. Or not. So this will also have to be removed and the spent fuel will have to be disposed of. I thank Congressman Nacsa for the signal. I am aware, of course, that this Bodai Claystone Formation was once classified in the early nineties, but you should know, as the Secretary of State indicated, that the capacities in Bátaapáti were roughly occupied by the construction of the small and medium-activity storage unit, and that in 2013 the project of RHK was actually launched which served the final disposal of high-activity waste. So this was started and it should not really be confused with the placement of high-activity waste and small and medium-activity waste. By the way, Congressman Volner has also confused these in his speech. I didn't want Paks II. or launch a debate on nuclear power now, but I will also respond to Mr Volner's suggestions. At the same time, I am also doing an experiment, a sort of experiment, to convince Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State and Mr Pál Kovács, that a political decision must be taken. That a political decision must be made, I can support it in the words of your Prime Minister. We know that in 2013 the project was launched, the high-activity waste storage facility. But research has been done here for a very long time. I specifically asked the National Atomic Energy Office at a public hearing in Bodan last February about how much money has been spent on this project. Here was a very rough estimate of the ten billion dollars, not at fair value, but that they spent about ten billion forints in total. In 2015, the Prime Minister made it clear that he recognised the veto rights of the city of Pécs on this issue. We used this as a reference basis in Pécs and the mayor of the then Fidesz city administration in Pécs, everyone said that calm down, now a research phase will be completed until 2018, and then the time will come to ask not only the population of Pécs, but also the population of the region. The 2018 research phase was closed, the public hearing was held, and the National Atomic Energy Office has now issued a site search permit for this deep geological storage, with the full clarity of the OAH's leadership in the report that Pécs rejects this project. There is in the report a statement by the head of the OAH that they see this problem, they have indicated it to the decision makers; resources, time and money are included. We do not dispute, we are not dark green, Mr Volner, that if our predecessors have already decided on the use of nuclear energy, then nuclear waste should be responsible for the best technology in place, best safety. So all we have to say is that we need a deep-geological storage facility somewhere. Your Prime Minister has admitted that he has the right to give an opinion to the people of that region. So you need a political decision now? You want to spend up to ten years, twenty years, pouring billions into examining whether that Bodai Clay Stone Formation is good according to technical and geological capabilities? This can be done in your reading for another ten years, say, another 10 billion, and then you will face what has already been acknowledged by the head of the OAH that Pécs does not want to do. So I think now would be a good time to take a responsible political decision to examine whether the socio-economic aspects allow the Bodai Clay Stone Formation to be the location of a concrete underground storage in this respect. I would also like to say to Congressman Nacsa that, in terms of what other locations there are in Hungary, there is quite a selection. At one of these forums, the colleagues of RHK projected how many locations there are in Hungary, a rock formation that is not excluded from a technical-geological perspective. Only no one has carried out a social and economic assessment of the extent to which the negative economic effects will affect the agglomeration. So we would say that we now have a political decision to make, to look at socio-economic impacts, yes, to re-evaluate potential research areas, to make the political decision to use the time and money at our disposal to find a place where the population might accept if we found a suitable rock. So, honourable Congressman Volner, neither do we say that we do not open Paks' debate, that we do not have to solve this problem responsibly. We must, we just think that, in this respect, now, if it has not already happened, the needs of the population, social and economic aspects must be taken into account. I would also like to point out to the Member that I did not take the Balliberian sign personally, and that may not be me, my fellow Member. Now I would not like to reopen the debate on nuclear energy in principle, but I would just like to draw your attention to one thing. You, I don't know, attacked the Green Activists in Germany by the number of deaths. I don't know exactly how you put it. Is Congressman Volner aware of how many people died in Pécs and its region due to the effects of uranium mining? So how many people and how many families have lost relatives involved in uranium mining? Do you have any idea what brutal environmental destruction means by the use of nuclear energy? Have you ever been in the area of Kővásőszőlős and faced the irreparable damage caused by nuclear power? Answer me, Congressman, because we could talk about the use of nuclear power, but I am talking in this debate about the fact that if we have a long-term obligation to place high-activity waste, we must now make the right decisions on how to find the best possible location here clearly the least possible clearly, and invest in scarce resources and start research there, so that this problem can be solved in decades. To add, the funding hasn't solved it either. As I have already said, there are technological problems, the reason why these research in the Scandinavian countries has been halted is because there are no technologies to place them in granite and to isolate them safely there, but funding is not a solved issue either. So exactly how much will the decommissioning of power plants, the placement of cooling elements, be financed by the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, and how much money is actually in this case. At present, this financial fund contains a fraction of the future decommissioning budget. This problem, on the one hand, is the problem of choosing a location, there is the technical professional problem with the location, the technology, and there is the financing problem. But I'll admit it's not necessarily related to this bill. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-188	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to comment on this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Schanda Tamás János Secretary of State.
u2020-04-21-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the comments made in the debate. I would just like to respond by saying that we are talking about harmonisation of laws. It occurred to me why we're bringing this law here now. I do not understand this because it came up on the part of a Member who himself worked in the public administration and knows that harmonisation is not a freely chosen task, but a mandatory one. It should simply be submitted to the Government before the Parliament, and the European Commission expects these laws to be transposed. That is why this is now before the Honourable Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, I hope you've answered the question. I wouldn't comment on that. At the request of the Commission, the concept had to be clarified. Here, it seems, we have reached my limits, because I cannot better explain that if the nuclear authority needs data, it must have them. I can't say this any better than that. Thank you very much for the positive and constructive arguments made in the debate. I think that we will have a lot to discuss with Mr President on this subject in other circumstances, and I would ask that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[19.10]] It is now up to the general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in the context of market surveillance, pending closure. The government referral is T/10096. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Mr. János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the agenda.
u2020-04-21-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the fields of expertise of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology and the Consumer Protection Authority is the market surveillance of non-food products. The aim of the Authority and laboratory checks is to exclude dangerous products from the market. Product safety has been at the heart of Hungarian consumer protection for many years, so the accredited chemical and technical laboratories of the ITM regularly examine the commercially available supply of goods. Laboratory tests are important because a number of hazards, risks, despite every effort and caution, cannot be identified simply by looking at them during the purchase. In addition, the Consumer Protection Authority, in cooperation with the customs authorities, already stops dangerous products at the customs border. Thus, these products cannot be placed on the shelves of shops or in webshops. This protects not only Hungarian consumers but also European consumers from dangerous products. If a product proves to be dangerous, the Consumer Protection Authority not only makes sure that it is removed from the shelves of shops, but also obliges the distributor, the trader, to recall the customer if justified. Market surveillance investigations also protect the interests of consumers and fair and compliant undertakings. Member States will send more than 2,000 notifications annually to the European rapid alert system, called RAPEX, of products presenting a serious risk to consumers. In the last ten years, Hungary has always been at the forefront, typically among the first five Member States, in the elimination of unsafe products, and in 2018 we finished in the third place. Dear House, The aim of the bill is to comply with the obligation to harmonise legislation resulting from membership of the European Union and to lay down the provisions necessary for the implementation of the regulation by amending the domestic legislation relating to the EU regulation on market surveillance. The amendment shall apply to all market surveillance authorities. Under the EU Regulation, the amendment will increase the share of voluntary action by economic operators in the case of unsafe products in a business-friendly manner. If the market surveillance authority finds a dangerous product in the future, it shall consult the company without delay, calling on the undertaking concerned to take appropriate and proportionate voluntary action. If the company does not do so, the market surveillance authorities shall take the necessary measures. The Authority may, inter alia, order withdrawal from the market, recall of products from customers, impose fines depending on the severity of the risk. As more and more people shop online, there is also a need to strengthen online market surveillance. Accordingly, on the basis of the bill, market surveillance authorities will be able to block the website in the future if it sells a dangerous product. This means that in the case of a product purchased in the webshop, if no other effective device is available, it will be possible to remove the content appearing on the website or in the application, to display a warning at the time of entry or even to restrict entry. The basic goal is to ensure that dangerous products, such as products that have been withdrawn from the market, cannot be reached by customers in webshops. Dear Parliament, Market surveillance authorities may act against the manufacturer, importer and distributor from among the operators in the distribution chain. At the same time, logistics service providers carrying out the storage and packaging of products are increasingly involved in online trade and cannot be dealt with by the market surveillance authority in the absence of competence. In this way, some companies can even misuse logistics providers to flood the market with dangerous products, or at least avoid the market surveillance control system. The amendment also sets out the responsibility of logistics service providers for all EU Member States in order to strengthen product safety. However, liability for them will only be possible if the market surveillance authority is unable to act against other operators in the marketing process, such as the manufacturer or the importer. Let me also draw attention to the fact that this amendment does not apply to postal operators. Dear Parliament, For the safe use of the product, it is essential to know the instructions for use. Therefore, the amendment before you requires that, in order to ensure safe use, the product should be accompanied by clear instructions for use and handling, safety warnings, in Hungarian. I would like to point out in particular that this amendment to the bill is not linked to the fulfilment of the task of harmonisation, but I believe that this is now essential because of the constantly evolving technologies. Furthermore, the draft will allow a more effective ban on the marketing of dangerous products by further strengthening cooperation and communication between EU market surveillance authorities. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the bill, the restriction or withdrawal of non-food unsafe products will become more effective and uniform at EU level. As a result of these changes, consumer safety will be improved and businesses will have to comply with clearer rules. Increased cooperation between competent authorities will allow more effective online market surveillance in the future. Given the above and what has been said, I urge you with great respect to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-21-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[19.20]]
u2020-04-21-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With the bill before us, as in the previous law, we are fulfilling our obligation to harmonise legislation. The legislative amendment proposed in this proposal will make it easier to restrict or withdraw non-food, unsafe products, and what is very important is that they become uniform at EU level. As we know, market surveillance authorities are carrying out their activities and taking measures to ensure that products comply with the requirements laid down in the relevant Community harmonisation legislation, and perhaps, more importantly, that they do not pose a threat to any aspect of health, safety or public interest, and that they also ensure the free movement of products. Dear House, The reason for the need for the amendment tabled, as I said, is legal harmonisation, but it is also an important factor, if not the most important one, which Mr.Secretary mentioned, that products must be provided with a management guide in Hungarian for consumers. The importance of regulation is that broad-spectrum market surveillance authorities should protect Hungarian citizens even more effectively, and, thanks to their partly new and partially strengthened powers, they can act more effectively and through stronger cooperation at EU level in order to strengthen product safety. Among the market surveillance authorities, the Consumer Protection Authority under the professional control of the ITM, i.e. one of the most important areas of expertise in the metropolitan and county government agencies, is the market surveillance of non-food products. The purpose of official and laboratory controls is to exclude dangerous products from the market. Product safety has been at the heart of Hungarian consumer protection for many years, so domestic accredited chemical and technical laboratories regularly investigate the commercially available supply of goods. If a product proves to be dangerous, the Consumer Protection Authority not only makes sure that it is removed from the shelves of the shops, but also obliges the distributor and the trader to recall it if justified, and laboratory tests are important because many sources of danger cannot be stopped by merely looking at it during the purchase. It is a good thing that Hungary has taken a positive position here in recent years, as Mr State Secretary has already pointed out. The outcome of the consumer protection inspection carried out in 2019 is that more than 340 thousand dangerous products have been prohibited from being placed on the market in products coming in from outside the European Union and 166 thousand of them have been destroyed, as they have endangered the physical integrity or life of consumers. This has helped to protect not only Hungarian consumers but also EU consumers, and strengthening online market surveillance is a significant contribution to making online shopping safer. Market surveillance is essential to protect people, especially children, from dangerous products. This is not an individual task, but it is a teamwork, and the parties involved need very close cooperation. The new market surveillance legislation strengthens this, and I will give you an example: by requiring the mandatory use of the common EU information and communication system. The submission shall also give market surveillance authorities the power, in the event of a serious risk, to remove the content appearing on the online website or app, to display a warning expressed upon entry, to restrict entry if no other effective means are available. The aim is to ensure that dangerous products, such as products withdrawn from the market, cannot be reached in web stores and to establish a market surveillance obligation for logistics providers who are increasingly involved in e-commerce. In the absence of a manufacturer, importer or authorised representative established in the Union alone, the EU Regulation imposes a final obligation on the logistics service provider, for example, to verify that the EU declaration of conformity has been drawn up to ensure that immediate corrective action is taken. A good example of this is the withdrawal from circulation. Dear Parliament, Finally, it is important to emphasise one of the most important elements of the bill that the introduction of new market surveillance powers, i.e. website blocking by law, does not make it impossible for businesses, especially fair law-abiding webshops. Blocking of the website is only a final sanction for the authority if other legal consequences, such as the warning or the imposition of a fine, do not result in a result. In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-194	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-04-21-195	Mr President, Dear House, The agenda has come where I must welcome the aspirations of Fidesz-KDNP and the government, because it has arrived ten years late, but it has come to the Hungarian reality, and it has made us a proposal that we can and will obviously tease in its parts, because it is the pleasure of being an opposition, the pleasure of being a government, that it responds to these bondages, but after ten years and after some pressure from the European Union, we have set out in a direction that is already capable, debateable, legitimate, and I think that is not a small word in today's circumstances. Why am I talking about ten years? I was lucky enough to be a Member of Parliament since 2010, and without any cynicism, I find that a great deal of luck. When I took the oath at the Holy Crown in 2010, I was delegated to Parliament's Consumer Protection Committee. Not because, as an economist, I had such an understanding of the area of consumer protection, or I would be a professor of this area, there was a much simpler reason, there was a bit of over-subscribe to the Economic Commission within Jobbik, and I wanted to focus on that, to be honest with you, and the Committee on Consumer Protection didn't have much to do with even Hungarian parliamentaryism. At the end of the day, I got a big round of applause at the faction meeting when I agreed to sit on the Consumer Protection Committee, and as a good student, I tried to get up and learn as much as possible from this area. To add, it was a hell of a committee. Among the committees of Hungarian parliamentarianism that I know of, my absolute favourite and an amazing professional work committee, which I do not understand why you have terminated. It is so painfully lacking in the sky of Hungarian economic policy, at all, the consumer protection approach, the approach of financial awareness, which, I see, we share in this, even some of the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank have worked massively to ensure, at least at the level of words, that financial awareness is embedded in primary secondary education, there are campaigns that deal with this, and I think that this could have been an area, or perhaps even a little bit in the corner, which, regardless of theisms, could be a joint undertaking, regardless of political sides. After all, if we were to say that the financial freak of foreign exchange lending should have been saved and that we could have put together a programme based on financial awareness, then I think we can agree on this, so that we can understand the experience. We would have been able to prevent the Quaestor scandal in a similar way, although it is obviously only very relevant to this issue, I think we could have agreed on this as well. But what I see is that the destruction of the Consumer Protection Committee, the integration of it into the Economic Committee, where it had a subcommittee for the first time, and then it didn't work properly, it also ceased, it's a historical crime and omission. That is why I am pleased that the proposal that should have been here before Parliament between 2010 and 14 and which could have prevented the emergence of a number of problems of a consumer protection nature came before us. We should not be unfair, and we should not ask this government or any of the others to pre-check each product that comes on the shelves or purchased in webshops, to strap it on that it is a safe product, to play it in front of the child, or to consume it, as one of the greatest drives of globalisation is that so much weight falls on the shelves, in the mailboxes and in the mailboxes of people, which can in essence be checked ex post with stretches, glances, but not at system level and forward. This already gives the system an incredible vulnerability. I therefore welcome, for example, the fact that it is not only possible to initiate proceedings against the manufacturer specifically, but also that suppliers, some intermediaries, can be interpreted in practice as part of the market surveillance procedure in relation to the proposal. So there is someone to deal with, another member of the chain, if the manufacturer himself is not available. But let's not entertain illusions, which makes our everyday security, our consumer protection security, let alone fail to recover, perhaps a little bit of our sense of security, subjective becomes stronger, but it may be a false strength. We also see that we have had success from the opposition in this 2010-14 cycle, as well as our success in terms of consumer protection. If I remember correctly, we had a suggestion with my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, that we had tenfolded the fine that could be levied on multi-company companies, and, if I remember correctly, the maximum of this was a very large sum of 6-7 zeros, which we proposed, see wonder, passed through the Fidesz-KDNP system. Yes, it was a cycle of professional debates, a real discussion between us. Of course, in the midst of a lot of political slinging and waving the yellow shovel, it is true, who in the sandbox has a bigger shovel base, but still, there have been very, very rare opposition proposals that were detectable and perceived. One of these was the increase in the amount of fines that could be levied for multi-annual purposes. I miss this, not only from this proposal, but from the whole European concept. I do not see the deterrent elements that are able to literally knock out from the market companies that continue to abuse which would not have room in this market. Complete industries have been created to deceive, exploit consumers and either sell counterfeit products or completely worthless garbage. And I can see perfectly that I am a market economy economist, that while there will be demand, there will be supply, but we will receive our salary, including here in the Hungarian Parliaments and also in the European Parliaments, so that we recognise this responsibility and carry through the widest range of regulations for the benefit of consumers. [[19.30]] We see that Europe and Hungary have not made any real progress in this matter in the last ten years. I am thinking not only of dissuasive fines, but also, obviously, of the fact that, in the European market, participants in certain or whole industries can be influenced either by temporary or permanent acceptance of operating licences or by alternative means. One of my favorite consumer issues was the case of consumer groups, which, if I remember correctly, was regulated by this government eight years late. It ended consumer groups on paper, then allowed former consumer groups organizers to start Rogán Antal's home lotteries instead of doused LTPs and Fundamenta and other state subsidies. So even what was removed was also opened up to a market gap later on. But what we see is that consumer groups in their kind, I don't know if they had any market economy sense. I do not see the social added value that has caused you to tolerate this amazing crap on the Hungarian economy, which is called consumer groups. I'll tell you one more thing: product shows. I need someone to stand up and tell me what kind of national interest there is in this show. And I see the intention to limit it, I see it, but I also see that, unfortunately, this form has not been eradicated. For the first time, the tricks after the tricks came, that they had no longer concluded contracts, credit agreements with these unfortunate fools at the site, but went home to them, or announced this activity in another room, but we see that there is simply no need for full economic branches, they are hotbeds of abuse. Typically, it is our elderly countrymen who, through their vulnerability and lack of information, are often trapped in similar companies. Indeed, there are specific sectors, groups of companies, representatives who should be dealt with by a completely different sanctioning system. I do not want to raise unrealistic expectations, I do not want the Government of Hungary to expect the full solution to this otherwise still unresolved problem at global level. At the same time, I expect you to start thinking about these alternative instruments. What I would expect most of all is to spread the financial awareness within the entire Hungarian economy. And this is not so that a state leader or official who earns over four million forints will stand up and tell the Hungarian families to redesign the budget and spend less than their income. Thank you very much, it will be very difficult to pass this maneuver without any revenue. This would go quite simply by introducing financial awareness and consumer protection into primary education, but in the secondary school, in such a way as to prevent students from getting out of there in such a state of mental and psychological condition that, where appropriate, they would be deceived by a consumer group, a dangerous financial investment. And if this attitude pervades society as a whole, that's what we've gone through consumer protection either at the product level or at the level of later sanctions and retaliations, as far as abusers are concerned. I would therefore encourage the government to do so, in addition to the fact that, as I promised in 2010 after my oath, I will support you in every good proposal and proposal, in addition to the fact that we will obviously debate a great deal on details. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-196	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-21-197	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpat, led us by saying that we will have a lot of debate on details. I think that after his speech, we will not argue much, we agreed on a lot of things that he said. But if we are already discussing a market surveillance or consumer protection item, allow me to thank the employees of consumer protection for the work they are currently doing to protect against a coronal virus epidemic before the speaker speaks. After all, a lot of fake products, false promises, fertilisers, anti-coronal medicines, vaccines and other products have appeared all over the world in webshops, and so obviously in Hungary, and this has always been a very determined, the earliest and most rigorous response from consumer protection, if it fell into a criminal category, a criminal category, on the part of the authorities, the police. So I think it is also necessary to thank you for this work in the current case of a coronal virus epidemic, because we have saved many victims who would have fallen for it from buying a product that is not what it claims to be or does not work. Another aspect that I would like to say is what is also mentioned in the KDNP, as my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpát, knows, is that we have made consumer protection proposals on many occasions and, for example, it is precisely the tightening of product presentations, fraudous display of goods, the KDNP name, and there has been a significant reduction in complaints about consumer protection after the KDNP legal tightening, such as the ban on advertising of free benefits. And the fact is that there would be a need to tighten up even more, because, for example, catching up on the act is not the simplest task, for example, for the authorities. But we have already built protective barriers by not having on-site credit placements, and we have built many time barriers where people have time to think about what they want to buy. Here, I would like to draw attention to the responsibility of all of us to put the emphasis on consumer awareness, both in education, education and communication, and to the shared responsibility of all of us to live as consumers conscious citizens in Hungary, and to be so in our communication, as well as by example, to stress the importance of awareness in this area. I think it is a fundamentally joyful process that the number of online purchases is constantly increasing, that from the webshops, we are talking about Hungarian products and producer products, and we are obviously not talking about food at the current item, but about products beyond or not in that category, but that the number of online buyers is constantly increasing. I also tried to get as many gifts as possible through webshops and webshops with the help of the Internet during the Christmas season last year. I think that there is now a wide range of opportunities for this in Hungary, in many places we encounter reliable certificates, encryptions, fair data protection, and this is a very positive change compared to the past or previous years, because eight, ten, fifteen, twenty years ago it was a much more shakier soil, and it stopped much less in the area of data protection and data security. In the last three or four years, he has made a lot of progress. Obviously, the emergence of GDPR has also helped to do this, but in any case, we see that online purchases are constantly increasing, so it is obviously a top priority to protect online customers and consumers as well. I would like to emphasise in particular the protection of children, the risk assessment of children's products, toys and products used by children. This is an area where European Union coordination is working very well, and Hungary has a great task, since there are several customs borders in Hungary. So we protect not only Hungarian consumers during the inspection of incoming products, but also the consumer community of the European Union as a whole. Thus, in recent years, Hungarian consumer protection has saved both Hungarian society and consumers in the European Union from hundreds of thousands of dangerous products. I think this is an important step forward. That is why the exchange of information is very important, which has already worked, because we have seen through an exchange of information that, if a dangerous product, an authority in a Member State of the European Union, has appeared somewhere, has identified something as a dangerous product, then that information has been immediately distributed to all Member States, and in the same way, if we have found it, we have informed the national authorities and the European Union about it. I think that this deepening of the exchange of information or moving forward with one is a welcome direction. With regard to EU coordination, we can clearly see that these tightening ups are in the right direction, and we can see that there is often a need for decisive, rapid action either in the case of voluntary recall or in the case of a radically dangerous product with regard to website blocking. After all, there are many times that the product called back from the store is maintained on the website, or just a little bit, to say the least, not entirely white webshops, the webshops operating in the grey zone are trying to deal with different imported products, in other countries they are trying to gain a level of profit by already calling back products, but they can therefore put Hungarian consumers at risk. Here, decisive action must be supported. I agree with my Fidesz and better fellow Member that this direction, which should be supported, needs to be increasingly focused on online consumer awareness and consumer protection, so the current bill is supported by the KDNP faction. Thank you very much. [[19.40]]
u2020-04-21-198	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-04-21-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We have heard a lot about consumer protection today, and as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, has said, it would have been good to take on a greater role in many other matters, to tighten up the procedures, the requirements according to which certain products, or even financial products, could be made available to the Hungarian population. I think that there is not only a lesson to be learned from these cases, there is a very bitter lesson to be learned from these cases, but also a loss, which is still unsolved at the moment, and, yes, there is also a primary consumer protection authority that we expect more from, this prosecutor's office, where more can be done by bringing actions of public interest that can protect Hungarian consumers. I, too, think that it is worth to be absorbed in this, and especially in this world, where almost everything is now digitally available, I go further; now, in this epidemiological emergency, everything is usually only digitally available; indeed, there is a much greater opportunity and a much greater role in this area of consumer protection, and I think that consumer habits will change so much, which justifies the fact that it is possible to deepen much more. However, it is not only the lessons to be learned, but also, where appropriate, the damage to financial service providers or credit institutions should be mitigated. I trust that the government will become a partner in this, and they will say not only what György Matolcsy said, that he will certainly not compensate so-called victims for any matter. And we hope that someday the funds at the central bank will not be put into foundations on all kinds of adventurous roads, which will be used to increase Hungarian financial culture and to educate Hungarian financial culture. This is also a matter of consumer protection. Fortunately, the bill before us provides for stricter consumer protection standards than before, and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-21-200	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-04-21-201	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, We are in a rather specific situation, because in the end we will indeed agree on a lot of things in relation to this law, even because, as a result of the harmonisation of legislation, we have the opportunity, in the interests of consumers and, in the interests of manufacturers, to jointly establish rules that make the rules of the game clear, I think that it is right. So let's start by saying that this bill in itself belongs to the category that is eligible, but I will tell you later what reservations I have. I say this so much that I can say that we are one step closer to the united states in Europe, with the solution that, yes, there are areas where coordination and shared experience in the European Union are increasingly giving us the opportunity to take further steps to this end. This includes how market surveillance principles are developed, how market surveillance accepts and pays attention to market surveillance in order to ensure that products comply with both European and domestic requirements and rules in this sense with national requirements. This includes, of course, the need to talk about the steps set out for sanctioning. Therefore, when the audit itself is carried out to ensure that a product that is not only a specific product, but also a financial market product, is in compliance with the quality certificate and the standards, I think that if it is different from that, it should also be sanctioned. The determination of penalties shall include the right of market surveillance authorities to take decisions concerning the deletion of content. Public intervention near the Internet makes me careful when, how and against whom it is applied, because I think it is the starting point and the means to sanction it - but what the Fidesz government has been trying to do over the past period, whether it is Internet restrictions, makes me careful when you decide to blame someone through any authority that it is harmful. And it makes you cautious because the power of the state to intervene in market processes has shown countless examples of this in recent times, and if this instrument is used for this, then it is unacceptable. On the whole, I would like to point out one more thing: in the area of consumer protection, it must be eliminated and treated in this way...; this calls for further caution. My fellow Members have also told me about their bad experiences in this, and I do not wish to repeat them. So, to sum up, I think this bill is a step in the right direction, but I trust that here, Mr Secretary of State's sentences will be able to reassure everyone that we are taking further steps to help consumers, the conscious consumer citizens, and not to give anyone a means to abuse the situation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-202	Thank you, Congressman. That is the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-21-203	Mr President, Dear House, We're in a moment of mercy, because this debate is certainly not going to take hours of our lives, so that we don't go anywhere after untidy reasoning. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one thing before replying. There has been an unfortunate phenomenon among us for years: when the budget is presented, the Jobbik faction submits an amendment that the Consumer Protection Authority and, in general, in a broad sense, the consumer protection system's budget support should at least be doubled compared to the previous one, so that an asset system, broadening its own lab network, all the achievements that make this work easier, and that obviously improvements in staff should be made in terms of increasing wage and any other options, and this amending proposal falls apart every year, in addition to the fact that the amount and the amount of money spent on consumer protection in the appropriations will not change at the end of the budget debate. I have one respectful request that a draft budget this year be submitted, and we now know roughly when it will come in, where this amount is fair, sufficient for all tasks, and we do not have to submit this amendment. I am quite certain that, although I cannot promise that we will support the budget as a whole, but if there is more money in this area, there will be more resources, it will certainly have an enormously positive benefit for all of us. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-21-204	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on this debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so I give the floor to the Secretary of State to respond in return to what has been said.
u2020-04-21-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you all for your constructive contributions. I'd just like to say a few things as a close-up. [[19.50]] I very much hope that the bill does not point to the united states of Europe, because then I would have a difficult heart to put forward. I hope I didn't get into that kind of trouble. Honourable Congressman, I would just like to point out that this is a good bill, which indeed contains elements for harmonisation, but by no means is not the model for the united states in Europe, but rather shows how constructively cooperating nation states can otherwise coordinate their actions. That is what this proposal is about. The other question, however, was the question of blocking websites. I hope here that I can reassure the Member that there are independent authorities acting as market surveillance authorities and that only in the final case will this sanction be applied in order to protect consumers, after all other options have been exhausted. I hope that this is a sufficient comfort, and I hope that your group will also support a measure that protects the interests of consumers, because we are all interested in preventing Hungarian people from buying products that are otherwise unsuitable for use or do not comply with other requirements. We were also talking about financial awareness, which led us far away from the original purpose of the bill, but basically we can agree that there is a need for further expansion of financial awareness, which is what countless government programmes are about, including in cooperation with the National Bank, and in the new National Basic Science Plan, significant new content elements have been introduced in this area. I trust that if you study NAT thoroughly, you will discover this in it, and this will also contribute to supporting it, unlike previous opinions. Once again, allow me to thank you for the opinions expressed in the debate and, in conclusion, I would like to ask you with great respect to support the proposed legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The general debate is closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the transformation of the status of civil servants in cultural institutions and the amendment of certain cultural laws will follow until closure. The government referral is T/10098. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Fekete, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2020-04-21-207	Dear House, In recent years, there have been a number of changes that have fundamentally rearranged our world. The migration crisis in 2015 focused attention on the fragility and importance of our own culture, and the history of the pandemic has shown that globalisation has not only advantages but also dangers, and that the wider national culture is our immune system. Here I would like to thank the cultural actors, artists, institutional leaders who have been able to respond immediately to the challenge of our country, our nation, in such a way that our mental health balance, our mental balance, has been shared on an equal footing with health workers and law enforcement workers. Thank you from here to the people of culture. In order to be able to respond substantially to changes in the world, not only to suffer, but also to shape our present and our future, so our fate, our domestic cultural life, had to be changed and changed. If we did the same thing as before, if we did it to the same people and the same people, it would be foolish to expect another result. We also need a mental shift in culture in a narrower sense. In the last ten years, Hungarian political and economic innovation has proved successful, and culture must also catch up with this process. We started this work within these walls, putting the nation's spiritual base on a new footing. This new foundation has three very important text phrases. Please allow me to list these terms. Neither science nor culture can be the self-legitive monopoly of part of the elite. Second, we have to acknowledge that tax dollars are not subjective. The third is that although we recognize and respect other cultures and civilizations, our culture is the most important. Not because we think we're better than others, but because it's ours, that's what we inherited, that's what we hold on to. So unlike those who believe in open society, this government is thinking about national culture. Ladies and Gentlemen, Change at the same time today's command. We can't do this like bullshit. In the last century, we have been tested to change our country, our nation, to wipe out the past, and then we saw that it didn't work. Therefore, we must change it in such a way that we preserve our best traditions. We have an image. Kunó Klebelsberg's courage and system view are the examples. In recalling his thoughtfulness, it is certainly true in the field of culture that we today must not win the daily political battles, but the future, together. Dear House, T/10098 on the transformation of the civil servant status of persons employed in cultural institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws. According to the views of the cultural government, bill No 1 is a milestone for the whole Hungarian cultural sector. We intend to streamline the cultural institution system [[Deficiencies in DK and LMP lines.]] , we adapt the outdated wage structure to reality, thus enabling the added value of the work of cultural creators and cultural carriers to be rewarded. Allow me to describe the proposal in two sections, specifically the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions and, separately, the sections on the amendment of certain cultural laws. Ladies and gentlemen. As regards the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions, I should first of all point out that the issue is not new, without precedent. The Secretary of State for Culture has agreed several times over the past year on government efforts to raise wages. During these discussions, the issue and possibility of a change of legal relationship were raised, from the government's side almost every time. The changes in the world of work over the past nearly 30 years, the differentiation of individual professional orders, and the special regulation on them have significantly eliminated KJT, which in many respects has not been able to follow changes in labour market and labour law, has become lifeless and has resulted in fragmented regulations. The Kjt. His system of advancement is therefore counterproductive in many ways, not a safe course, but a counterproductive one. I apologize to the librarians for giving such an example the other day, there is a difference between a museologist and a museologist. We want it to be worth being a good museologist. The system on which we are proposing will facilitate this. I myself have come from the world of cultural institutions, so I know exactly how many agile, enthusiastic, willing and capable professionals carry their shackles on account of the inability of some of their employees who are under the cover of public employment, who have lost their agility. Some people speak more strictly than that, they say that we should speak straight: all civil servants who are currently trying to make it through alibi to retirement occupy the place and wages of someone who would be motivated and better able to do their job. [[20.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a good thing that Hungary's government recognised in 2010 that building a knowledge-based economy is one of the keys to the country's competitiveness. This has led to an increasing number of jobs and new jobs in which knowledge and high added value play the role. [[Gergely Arató: Why are you lowering higher education?]] It is recognised that in economically developed European countries, almost half of GDP is generated by knowledge industries. On average, eight out of ten new jobs are created in the knowledge industry. This supports the finding that the Kjt. The conditions of employment of civil servants provided by civil servants do not create the possibility of a sustainable competitive advantage with human resources. Time has passed over the traditional toolbox of competitive advantage. And the fact that this thought is not from the devil clearly shows that the profession has already begun to do so under the radar. In the performing arts and public education scene, more than 70 percent of employees and more than 60 percent of employees in the public collection area are no longer in the status of civil servants. So, on average, about two thirds of stakeholders have already taken the step for which the cultural government is currently being condemned by certain professional and political organisations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Secretary of State for Culture has agreed several times over the past year on the government's efforts to raise wages. In March 19 the Association of Hungarian Archives, the Association of National Public Collections, the National Association of Cultural Centres, the Association of Hungarian Folk Artists, the Association of Hungarian Librarians, the Association of Informatics and Library, the Association of Hungarian Rural Museums, the Pulszky Society, the Museum of Literature Petőfi personally invited them to my office, I welcomed them, and we analyzed the situation for a long time. This was followed by a meeting in June 19 with the Cooperation Forum of Trade Unions, led by András Földiák. We met again in December in a wider circle. In January and February this year, we sat down twice with representatives of the National Civil Service Strike Commission. As a result of the multiple reconciliation, a problem map was compiled. Please allow me to list this map of problems that we have compiled together with the managers of professional organisations. The primary reason is that the civil servant pay table has not changed since 2008. The very negative effects of this have spawned into the cultural sector. The wage level is solely shaped by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Despite the fact that these amounts increase annually by an average of 8-8 percent over recent years, the continued increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage is becoming less and less visible in the sector due to the change in the pay table. There is a significant wage tension that has led to wage mismatches, i.e. differentiated remuneration could not be achieved. Compared to the level of wages of full-time employees employed as civil servants in the cultural field, individual segments of the national economy have a significant wage advantage. The competitive advantage has a negative impact on the competitiveness of the civil servant career in the labour market, the ability to retain the workforce and the replacement. People employed as civil servants in the cultural field are currently faced with a system of promotion and salaries that is significantly behind other human sectors. As a consequence of the above, the movement of human resources in the sector to an extent that is already threatening the functioning of the whole country's cultural institutional system. Ladies and Gentlemen, The private space took the best people. The leaders of the institution cannot properly highlight and pay the best employees, and the result is that they migrate to the private sector. The above problems and negative spirals were indicated by representatives of the cultural sector in the sector's professional conciliation forums. The government, therefore, responds to the feedback of professional organisations, and Parliament can solve a decade-long problem with regard to the cultural sphere. Our aim is to make the area competitive by creating wages that can respond to rapidly changing market conditions. Dear House, The above problems will be addressed by transforming the civil servant status of the cultural sector into employment relations, thereby creating a uniform legal status and working conditions, as well as by establishing a wage replacement, with the guarantee that, overall, the persons concerned will not get into a worse wage situation than is currently provided by the current legislation. It was an extremely important line of sentences. The scope of the bill covers all cultural institutions, including those employed in central budgetary bodies, local and ethnic authorities and ecclesiastical organisations. Ladies and Gentlemen, Based on the data of the Treasury, the number of data subjects on 1 January 2020 represents 18 936 persons. I have to say here that the government decided on a 6 per cent wage increase in 2020 in parallel with the change of public relations between health workers and educators. This represents more than HUF 5 billion in additional resources for the sector, even in these critical times. In the year 2020 exactly, 5 HUF 103 630 740 and 5 HUF 645 628 426 will be used as an integral part of the year 2021. We are working in the EMMI, and I personally work with all my efforts to achieve a further increase in 2021, depending on the options. Here, too, it is important to emphasise that, overall, those affected cannot get into a worse wage situation than is currently being ensured by the current legislation. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the timeframe, I would like to list only a few of the benefits of changing legal relationships and models. With the transformation of the public employment relationship and the associated wage increase, more flexible labour law rules will be created, able to follow dynamic changes in the labour market. The employer's head office has a wider scope, since employment no longer attached to the pay table can be a guarantee of quality public service. Employees can obtain a fairer wage according to their actual skills and invested work. By transforming the relationship into the most important social value-generating factor in the knowledge-based cultural sector, knowledge, ability and will to do so will become. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear House, The second, in a shorter part, I would like to give a few reasons for amending certain cultural laws: LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. amendment of the law. In addition to the GDPR amendment, Ltv. a comprehensive review of the legislative and information technology changes that have taken place since the entry into force of the legislation and of Ltv. This is justified by the implementation of experience gained during treatment with Viraferon. The primary objective is to ensure the conditions for scientific research by matching the disclosure of personal data with data protection rules. The other change is CXL of 1997 on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. amendment of the law. The aim is to ensure that the library facilities of Hungarians across the border are more organised and to strengthen the quality of life in rural areas. As a means of doing so, it establishes a system of regional libraries, whose task is to support, inter alia, the library services of Hungarians beyond our borders, and to coordinate the cooperation and care of urban libraries with county scope. [[20.10]] XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. The amendment of the Act provides the basis for public support for non-qualified performing arts organisations, as well as for the joint operation of municipal theatres, the detailed rules of which are subject to government authorisation. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please allow me to inform you that the Secretary of State for Culture maintains a continuous day-to-day relationship with professional associations and trade unions. I am negotiating with at least two organisations one day, and we are doing everything we can to bring together those amendments, those concrete and real proposals, and we are open to adopting constructive proposals under the parliamentary procedure. Thank you for your attention. I ask this House with respect to the adoption of amendments and the adoption of the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome. Good evening. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László, Secretary of State, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard a very exhausting, detailed presentation of the authorship from Secretary of State Péter Fekete, so I would like to add only a few points to what he has said, since the Fidesz faction agrees with the presentation and with what was said in the Minister of State's exposé. What is the most important point in the debate on the bill before us? The fact that everyone who has spoken in the last few weeks has not seen this as an opportunity in this debate, but as a wage issue, that is to say, they have set up this bill as a cardinal part of this bill to maintain the wages of civil servants and, after the transformation of status, the workers of the cultural area will receive adequate wages. I think that we have received a reassuring and exhaustive reply from the Secretary of State: not only is it the intention of the cultural government to keep the wages of the workers in the sector, but it is also its clear intention, its aim, to keep their wages rising, and the government has already promised a 5% increase in wages for this year as a whole. [[Gergely Harvester: 1 percent is missing?]] I would so like to hear from my fellow Member Arató. I promise you, I'll listen to her, too. We're barely in this room. Let's try to hear each other out. Thus, the government promises, on average, a 5% increase in wages to employees in the sector who are employed as a public servant in this year, which are covered by the Labour Code. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest, this bill, which lies before us, is basically not about wage problems and pay issues, it is basically about organizational cultural issues, and it is a huge opportunity for the sector, as we have just heard from Secretary of State Péter Fekete, because this sector has been at a competitive disadvantage for a very long time, and it has been dealing with structural problems that are inseparable from the structure of wages that actually bind the hands of the heads of the institutions. In fact, at first sight, alignment with the civil servant pay table also means security, as it is a guaranteed structure, but at the same time there is no possibility in the public employee pay table that the head of the institution is sufficiently differentiated to reward quality work, talent, ambition, outstanding research skills and knowledge. It is very interesting that, not in the public part of the debate, but in the background part of the debate, the heads of institutions speak by calling us, telling us, telling the Secretary of State, telling us, pro-government representatives that they are pleased with this bill, waiting for more than ten years for the Parliament to finally have a law that provides the institutional leaders with the leeway, the actual management competence that is not possible to adapt to the public employment pay table. In the current system, there is no possibility of sanctioning workers who, although formally performing their work but who do not actually have significant performance, prefer those who otherwise achieve outstanding results in the professional work of their institution. I think that is what the Secretary of State has said today, that this is a serious problem for the operation, that an institution manager cannot differentiate in an appropriate way. And the only reason you can't differentiate is because, at the moment, in most institutions, the 18,000 employees you spoke of, Mr. Secretary of State, your wages are already diverted from the pay table, as permitted by law. So the truth is, there's no room for manoeuvre for a museum director, a library director, an archival director, to say that anyone who performs twice as much otherwise has significantly more wages. So this is an organizational cultural issue. This Hungarian institutional system has problems, our museums, our archives, our libraries, our cultural houses are facing problems that the institutions and the institutional leaders in the countries that are further west of us are not at all struggling with. For example, it is a terrible problem that a head of institutions in Hungary cannot commit for several years in advance, and we should have dealt with them long ago. Institutions that are non-profit-making. they operate in its form, today they can afford much more free budgetary movement than those which carry out their work in the form of a budgetary body within the scope of the Public Finance Act. Well, how does a large Hungarian museum want to be competitive against a European institution that, say, can plan its exhibition program for five to six years or more in advance so that it can commit, conclude contracts, rent artworks, organize the delivery of art objects, and communicate all this in time to its audience, the potential consumer, viewer, buyer, reader, visitor? These are huge problems that need to be addressed, and the first decisive step in this direction is, at the same time, a very good step for the government to lead the civil servant system out of this area. I understand those who have been working as civil servants for decades, and this has meant security for them that they are now nervous, now they are worried, but from everything that you have said, Mr. State Secretary, and from everything that the government intends to do, we need to make it clear, and for everyone, it must be clear that there is nothing to worry about for those who are doing their job honestly, who are putting their hearts and souls out for Hungarian culture, who are working day and night to ensure that Hungarian culture, the issue of Hungarian culture, really has a high quality and that it works well. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, if there are institutions in Hungary where there is a system that the government now wants to introduce in public and municipal institutions, then why should it not work in the public and municipal sectors? If you look at the church archives, the church libraries, the church museums, if you look at the cultural institutions of the foundation, if you look at the government's operation, ownership or government-owned, non-profit. If we look at the institutions that work in the form of public limited companies and where workers and non-public employees are covered by the Labour Code, and these institutions work well, they operate in a professionally high quality, the professionals working in it and the others as well, since in a good institution not only the high-quality work of the workers is paid fairly and this system works, why not operate in the same way in the state sub-schemes? In fact, this is a question of leadership quality, leadership freedom and institutional culture, and, in addition to that, of course, of ensuring an adequate budgetary background. We've been hearing voices in the press in the last few days that means they're gonna take money from the institutions. [[20.20]] They don't take money from the institutions. In addition, a number of people confuse things, since the institutions should think about municipally reserved cultural houses and libraries to finance them, the state gives them normative. Moreover, the norm is independent of how many people work in that institution, as the normative is guaranteed through the budget of the Ministry of Interior by means of the institutions which are reserved for the municipalities in the Fundamental Law and the 1997 CXL. a mandatory task as laid down in law. Similarly, the State supports the rural museum institution system from central budgetary sources, the former county museum institution system, which was transferred to the maintenance of municipal municipalities in 2013. The state supports the Hungarian theatre structure with significant resources. So these subsidies won't go away. The fact that workers who contribute to the maintenance of these excellent institutions will not do their job as civil servants does not mean that the public support of the institutions will not be less. Obviously, the government expects, and we Members of Parliament expect the maintenance authorities to ensure that local government support is not reduced, especially in the case of institutions where the State grants target support or where the State grants funding to the institutions on a normative basis. Dear fellow Members, There are institutions that once operated within the State subsystem. I'll give you an example. It's the National Institute of Culture. The National Institute of Culture is now a nonprofit. operates in its form and has moved its headquarters from Budapest to Lakitelek. The beautiful new property, which is home to the National Institute of Culture, has been completed. I was there last week, and I looked at it, and it gave the colleagues fantastic conditions. If this institution, which used to be a budgetary body and whose employees used to be civil servants, can do its work today at a higher level, not in the capital, but in the countryside, it is nonprofit. I do not understand why we are concerned that, where appropriate, this would not work in the case of other institutions, in the case of institutions with municipal or state reservations. But look at the remaining pieces of the former trade union institutional system, the cultural houses of the local cultural institutions, which today make a very big contribution to the functioning of the rural cultural institution. These are either foundational or associational institutions. The State will also contribute to their operation. They've been a long time, years, and I can tell you they haven't been civil servants in decades. And by the way, it should be noted that the first Orbán government contributed to their wage development between 98 and 2002. So I'm only taking this as an example because it also shows that it is not only possible to support the wage development of civil servants from the central budget. So those who say that, in fact, by launching the civil servant system, the government is also removing a responsibility, from itself, we can say that this is not true, and that we can give examples from recent decades when the state has also supported these institutions and their non-public employees. All that Minister of State has said about the figures is very important, because there are apparently not many 18 936 people who, based on the data of the Hungarian Treasury on 1 January, worked as civil servants in the fields of public culture, public collections and performing arts, but this is a very important part of Hungarian society. This 18,000 people, who work in Hungarian cultural houses, libraries, museums, archives, theatres, zoos, circuses and the rest, are very important people, and their work must be highly appreciated. That is why what we have heard from the Secretary of State is important, that it is nearly HUF 5 billion and I am clarifying, because I said 5 percent of the wage increase is expected this year, according to the government's promises. Let's look at the numbers a little bit more, 'cause we might as well open this. In the public works there are 3234, in the zoos 212 civil servants, 6102 in the public collection area, 6102 in the libraries, 4871 in the museums, 859 civil servants in the archives at the moment. 3659 in the field of performing art, 2919 in the theatres, 557 in the orchestras, 183 in the dance ensembles. The summa of these is the 18936, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State. They're important to us. Not only do we not give up on them, but we want them to be able to do their professional work as much as possible under better conditions. At the same time, I also think that there will be some people who will not want to work in a changing system. But it's obviously their decision, not just the employer's or the government's. However, we are interested in ensuring that the new system, which will stand up, works more effectively, and that it gives greater respect to those who really do their job at a high level in a material sense. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I regard this bill before us as an opportunity. There's a great deal of potential in this. I, if I were an institution manager, would feel freed at last, freed from a shackle, and can finally manage the wages properly in my own institution, and I can decide, as head of the institution, who is worth receiving a reward, or who can decide the reward right now, but get more wages. This new system is much more freedom for the head of institutions than is currently guaranteed by the Public Employee Act to the head of the institution. So I call on my fellow Members to support the bill before us. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-210	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The public collections and public education workers have a bad profile. They didn't draw the joker, say, in a way like Tiborcz or even Mr. Butcher, they had a Black Peter. [[L. Simon László: Nacsa Lőrinc: Yikes, yikes!]] Yeah, that's right. And the thing is, ladies and gentlemen, in those pro-government benches you're talking about here, we don't understand. So you may have heard the interjections all the time, if you'd be open to criticism, that we don't understand what you're talking about. Who created this harness? What prevented you from having a two-thirds mandate ten years ago to shake off these shackles, break them, and establish a system to maintain the status of civil servant that would guarantee these people's sense of security, and not take away from them a number of things that are rightfully feared? Nothing. You, if necessary, overwritten, rewritten the rock-solid Fundamental Law. And then it could be added that if necessary, the Ten Commandments of Scripture will be overwritten, especially with regard to points 7 and 8. [[L. Simon László: On a professional basis.]] It's a professional basis. There's no money. That money, the amount of resources that should be there, and what you're referring to now with such a big breast is the HUF 5 billion, that 6 percent increase in wages, it's missing from the system because you didn't put it in there. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Let's put it in now.]] Now, after 12 years, my dear fellow Member, press the button, and then speak up, after 12 years you will be put into the system. Let's say it represents a kilometer of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway. Congratulations! 18 936 cultural workers are very pleased with this 6 percent increase in wages. This honey business is not even as much as it was pulled out in front of the workers in vocational training, where they offered 30 percent in exchange for losing the status of civil servant; here is 6 percent. Mr. Secretary of State, who had worked as an excellent magician before, it would have been better if he had now turned the top hat into a real gift rather than a magician so evil that he could completely and without a trace remove the status of these workers as civil servants. Obviously, we will not give our names to this, nor will we accept this outrageous bill. But then I'm absolving Mr. Secretary of State in some way, you're only a sorcerer's apprentice. Next to Zsolt Semjén, the chief magician, the lightning rod, who, while hunting, perhaps somewhere up there, had just pulled out his laptop, wrote this bill and submitted it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[20.30]] This is what is unacceptable, and everything that surrounds this is the lack of consultation, the lack of social and professional dialogue... I know, Mr Secretary, you referred to it as having happened and negotiating with the leaders of two organisations each day. But the whole sphere is outraged, and they demand that you forget what you just submitted. Especially in a situation where a whole society is terrified of its livelihood, it is incomprehensible. There's a coronal virus epidemic around the neck of the country. It doesn't make sense why at this time, why now, why it was necessary to bring this up. Zsolt Semjén cannot understand that public service is the public interest, the service of common goals, and these people, who are professionally engaged in their crafts there, are not the culágeres of the business contractor Józsi, who will be subject to the labour code. Well, I beg you to understand. Amazing! These people are in many cases the last bases of the intelligence that remained in rural Hungary. As a national party, we say that we should pay much more attention to them, and it is not such proposals that will facilitate this. The whole thing is surrounded by some sort of Orwell surreal way of talking. We know, Orwell's novel, 1984 paints a terrible dystopy where Big Brother, he listens to everyone. [[L. Simon László: We read it!]] Yes, that's great, Mr. Secretary of State read it, and then you know the language is out of its own system. There are many ways to do this. One is, for example, when political correctness is pushed beyond ridiculousness. That's not a good point for you on my part. But propaganda and that black-and-white-and-black-and-white-crazy lie are more typical of you. Fellow Members! Let me quote a few things that I have written out; by the way, Mr Secretary of State has also referred to them in his speech. Appreciation of public sector workers is of particular importance. Yeah, let's get back to this six percent. It's a huge honor. After 12 years! You've had a raise for 12 years, haven't you? Then the knowledge, the ability, the will to do becomes the factor of value creation, said the Secretary of State. What was it, then? So they paint this thing as if it were the hedonist, otherwise silly crickets in museums and archives, and there are also diligent and innovative ants, and then this bill will raise and support the latter group. It's amazing, and it's offensive to 18,936 people, too! It will lead to a high level of employment security, and then unlinked employment can be a guarantee of quality public service. And that's Neoliberalism. What are we talking about? If I quoted Orwell or came up with examples from him, then this is the category of the, double plus is not good. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] There's no other way to categorize this whole thing. Although we do know that you think ignorance is power. This is often reflected in their anti-knowledge and intellectual policies. You may not have to, but you will not have to then, my dear fellow Member Nacsa, museum, we do not need archives. Then I'll tell you something else from 1984, make him happy. Do you know what a prolite feed is if you've read it? What's a prolyto? The creation, my dear fellow Member, which was produced with mechanical assistance, was good for entertaining the proliks of 1984 and for washing their brains, somehow manipulating them. This may be the kind of thing that will be needed in the coming Hungary, if you believe that social processes are taking place here. We don't want any of this. This whole thing was morally unacceptable, and I'm gonna say it again, the way it was conducted. The fact that before Easter, on Thursday night, at 19.45 p.m., the unions concerned will receive all of this, continue the social consultation, and if they have anything to add, they should present it nicely by 8:30 a.m. Tuesday morning. You're not supposed to do that. It's outrageous! I'm telling you, on behalf of former colleagues. Before I became a congressman, I taught, I was a vocational high school teacher, and before that, I worked in a museum after college, and there's also some connection from life on my part. The fact is that the hurrah-optimist atmosphere that you are reporting here is not typical for a significant number of workers in this area, and not because they would again be some sort of hedonist and silly crickets who don't really want to work. No! They're simply afraid because the experience is bad. There's a line of questions. What about predictable advancements, jubilee rewards, surrogates, longer acquittals? Then, let's say, if it turns out that way at the end of a career, then the greater severance pay can easily go away, and together with the security of employment, they will be lost. So, the stable labour law situation that these people need may not be guaranteed, even though it is highly qualified intellectuals. What has been introduced here is the neoliberal model, which would be good for a colonial elite and an oligarch-led banana republic, but not in Hungary. From their policies, no matter what they say here, it is clear that they are pursuing neoliberal practice, see the support of multinationals. You can point back what happened before 2010! You've doubled that. You can see what's in higher education: where you were born, where you stay, so closing the mobility channels and now trampling on public employees. In 2015, however, a career model was promised. Where is he? Is this it? We don't think so. The fact that 80-90 percent of the workers in this sector suffer from the guaranteed minimum wage will not change because of this bill. You're following the Bokros axiom that says there's no university in Burundi, but you're doing well. Then the secretary of state could say that, well, there is no museum or archives for the Yanomai Indians in Amazon. [[Deficit in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] But they're fine. But it's not! Well, we're in the middle of Europe. These institutions are guarding our common cultural treasures. They should be much more valued, and not followed the method that Mr. Kóka performed or confessed: we do not ask the frogs when we drain the swamp. Even now, these people have not been asked what they would think of this whole shame. Or there was László Parragh, who, in connection with the status of civil servant, took all this away from the workers in vocational training, said something so shameful that being a civil servant spoils you, you can lean back, because you will get the same money as working full force. That's the spit on the eyes of people who sweat blood in these sectors! So it reflects a neoliberal, chemically purely market fundamentalist approach, which we obviously do not ask for from Jobbik. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] Mr. Secretary. You may have even apologized a little for him here when you said that the librarian who doesn't work will not be needed, but those who will stay will earn a lot of money. How will they make a lot of money? We don't see that terrible increase in wages. Cannibalizingly, if one worker eats the other, they may earn more, but the work will also be much more, and this is likely to be at the expense of the whole. Let's go back to that 6 percent one more time. That they're gonna make a lot more than that, it's not gonna happen. In connection with the money, it has been brought up here, and Parliamentary Secretary Rétvári has already said a number of times this week how much Hungary spends on culture in proportion to its GDP. I'm not going to accuse you or read your head about why Kaposvár got such a nice theater. I'm from Somogy County. We're very happy for you. This is about the wages of the workers. Well, let's just leave it at that. If you keep coming up with GDP, let's look at how much Hungary spends on stromans and oligarchs in proportion to GDP. I think it's a lot more than it's gonna show in this comparison. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] Mr. Secretary. It seems to you that the friendship of the Chinese Communist Party is also important in the form of such huge businesses, such as the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, which will receive a thousand billion forints. [[20.40]] Once again, let's just taste this comparison, this amazing and absurd gap between the two, between a mad project, between a hundred billion-dollar mass of money and the five billion-dollar extra resources offered to the people working in public farming. We cannot accept this, but we would like you to understand that without a library, there is no equal opportunities, and these libraries will only function if they really feel like a public servant, not your servants. There is no national memory without museums, and there is no credible national past without archives. And without public culture there is no civic culture, which, without a civic culture, will inexcusably sink in the disadvantaged regions of Hungary. That's what we're worried about. And please allow us to promote these fears on such occasions, because we have had a number of very bad experiences on your part. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to your answers.
u2020-04-21-212	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, is coming. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, there is a bill before us, the debate of which was accompanied by rumors, hysteria, and continuous lies from the opposition side. Before the debate of the law even started, you lied to the press, the Hungarian public, and continued to hystericalize. To my fellow Member, Jobbik, the party that spits in shoes and the Kuruc.infós party, we do not accept cultural education, thank them very much. [[Ander Balázs: There were consequences!]] Of course. One of the aims of the bill before us is to develop wage modeling and organisational culture among those employed in cultural institutions. As a result of the change in the wage model, employees will continue to work in employment in the art organizations, public institutions and public collections instead of in the public employment relationship. I think it is very important that we will hear it from opposition representatives, and we have heard it in the press in the last few days, as Secretary of State L. Simon has said, that there may be fears, there may be a sense of uncertainty for those working in culture, but we would like to reassure them that this is not about them, but about them. The goal is not to send anyone, not to bury public education institutions, not to bury archives, not to bury libraries! From 15 minutes, we agree with the last three sentences that these institutions are very much needed by Hungary, and not only must they be kept, but we must strengthen these institutions, and this bill serves this very purpose. We have found three sentences in your 15 minutes, with which we can agree that these institutions are not only needed, but also need to be strengthened. That's what I'm talking about. The 18,000 people we're talking about are the reason you're starting to get scared, and we want to reassure them. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not from us, but from you!]] From you, because you're making rumors, you're filling your head with lies. However, it is not what you are saying, but what you said in your exposé, Mr Secretary of State, why this bill came before this House, and that we would like to have an organizational culture development and a wage model change for cultural organisations. They are very important actors in preserving, maintaining, presenting and passing on Hungarian culture. We would also like to thank and acknowledge them for this work, as we owe thanks and gratitude for their sacrifice, because they do their work every day with dedication, decisively and in the interest of Hungarian culture and Hungarian values. They also deserve material appreciation in recognition of their work. Employees entering employment from the status of civil servants will receive a 6 percent wage increase this year. This increase in wages will benefit workers who change status from 1 January 2020. And to answer Mr Ander half, of course, we are working on further steps, and now only the first step is 6 percent. But we're also working on continuing steps. This wage increase represents more than HUF 5 billion in additional resources for the sector, as has already been said recently, that Hungary is a leader in cultural resources with the 1.7 percent that we spend on culture in proportion to GDP. This makes us a leader in the European Union. I think we should be proud of that. We can then have debates about today's bill, but we should be proud to spend 1.7 percent of our GDP on culture. This is a joint success with the budgets adopted by this Parliament. I think it's an important recognition. We know that during the 2008 crisis, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments have taken over all areas of life, brought austerity, and that even in the middle of the crisis caused by the coronal virus, the national government is giving a wage increase and we are discussing a wage increase. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Each employee entering employment from the status of civil servant will be in a more favourable position than his current state. The civil servant pay table, which has now been tied to cultural workers, has caused tension in these institutions, it has also been counterproductive in some places and has not provided a career model, which is very important, does not reward performance, thus being uncompetitive, non-motivating, non-rewarding. Péter Ungár can make jokes here in Parliament about the performance or motivation of cultural workers, but it is possible to pay them by performance, but it is possible to improve a motivational pay system if an institution manager is given such an opportunity. And it must always be added to the other side: it is not only an opportunity, but also a responsibility that they must learn to live with. They also need to break out of the so far slightly narrow pay table for civil servants to open up a larger opportunity, and with this opportunity they must learn to manage responsibly and learn to take advantage of the extra responsibility that this new system will place on them. I believe that the role of the head of the institution will also be appreciated in this respect. Not only can they be good leaders of the institutions professionally, but they will be able to create a system of pay, a system of advancement, a motivation system that will be useful and productive not only for us, but also for the whole Hungarian culture. As I said, the employer's head office has a wider scope, as employment no longer attached to the pay table can be a guarantee of quality public service. And let's never forget, like I said, putting responsibility on the side of opportunity. I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary, from time to time, to see how this responsibility can be exercised by the head of the institution, who is the head of the institution who can make good use of this responsibility, and, if this system is established, to share with the other institutional leaders the good practices that we will see developing with a larger institution, how one head of the institution can handle this situation, how it makes use of this option. By transforming the relationship in the knowledge-based cultural sector, knowledge, ability and willingness to do will come to the fore, I think that this is important and becomes the most important social and value-creating factor. The change in labour law status thus creates a competitive system of recognition and evaluation of performance, knowledge, which will also be more democratic, decentralised and human-centred. The rigid and bureaucratic constraints with the pay table, the head of the institution who knows the employees, working with them directly, will cease to exist, thus increasing its decision-making competence. This will create a viable wage system adapted to the needs of workers, which will make decisions at local level, which can assess real performance and dedication. This is what cultural institutions deserve. However, they remain state employees, do not lose their jobs, but only their labour law status changes in a better direction. The title of the legal relationship does not determine the value of the service to the community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-214	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Vice-President István Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-04-21-215	First of all, I would like to thank Mr President for giving me the opportunity to give my speech as a speaker. Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! As a matter of fact, this bill concerns the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions and the modification of certain cultural laws. But one wonders, honourable Members, what is this amazing speed, what is this speed, what is this forced will of the legislator, which in a few weeks will show a completely different speed than what was thought a few months ago. [[20.50]] I say this because, when we hadn't talked about the corona virus, the government, like before every parliamentary session, submitted a legislative programme. This has been submitted by you, a respected majority, and it can be traced. I am telling you, as you obviously know, that this law with this title, with this content, was not yet included in your proposals in February. The government's submitted legislative programme did not include the programme cited above, neither the law nor the law. What is in it and why is there a question to be asked that it is now considered important and timely in the middle of the epidemic, while two months ago, when, I assume, they consciously thought about what they wanted to bring to the Hungarian Parliament in the spring, they did not think of this? What's at the bottom of this? It is worth asking, because I think we understand the point only when we ask this question, not simply in chronological terms, but in depth. Firstly, it may be worth considering the views of those concerned. I also listened to Mr Secretary of State, what kind of meetings were there, I note, in 2019. I, on the other hand, would like to quote a resolution of a few days ago, which you are obviously aware of, which all the organisations concerned will record together with the date of 13 April 2020. In this way, without knowledge of an impact assessment, in an emergency, it is irresponsible to submit a bill of error, unprofessional and reckless, which seems to be indisputable. We demand that all provisions of the above bill to terminate the civil servant status should be excluded from the bill amending the cultural law. In our view, the issue of stipending for more than a decade should not be linked to the issue of the civil servant status of our staff. Budapest, April 13, 2020; All the organizations involved, from the archivists to the librarians to everyone. However, if this is so clear, because it cannot be said that the organisations concerned have been misinterpreted, then the question that has been asked must really be answered, but the real explanation should not be sought in 2020. I would like to quote from a study that plays a crucial role in your policy as a whole, publicly, but then it is referred to as important people at important meetings, and which, I think, is a real explanation:... is a very high proportion of those who receive their income through fiscal redistribution. These are members of the post-socialist clientele. These parts of society are not only heavily responsible for the budget, but are also very sensitive to changes in the level of redistribution due to their dependence on redistribution and to political promises in this regard. On one side are the citizens' national system changers, on the other side the post-socialist clientele quoted above, who, as defined above, of course, belong to the relevant sections, organisations and members of this bill. The fact, honourable Members and honourable Secretary of State, is that this thinking is far from affecting the area of culture; it has only now been seen as a good time in the middle of the epidemic risk, when attention is focused on other areas for understandable reasons, such as the protection of life, the protection of jobs, so that at that time what this ideologist wanted to do in this area, expressed three-quarters of a decade ago, is to be explained by the Prime Minister in 2014 in Tusnádfürdő, which has the deepest idea of how you might have lost the election in 2002. How can it be prevented from happening again, so that, in a free and democratic election, those opposed to your camp will have the opportunity to form a government and win the election? In this very large part, it was thought that the mistake was that the programme of the then announced welfare regime change, which was implemented later on, could be implemented with little support from those who were part of the previously mentioned target group, the aforementioned ideological study. Therefore, I have to say that we are really talking about culture here only superficially. In fact, we are talking here about the impact of an ideological, political endeavour that has been premeditated, consciously and consistently carried out, which they would otherwise like to achieve, I say once again, when, indeed, it is rejected clearly and unanimously by the stakeholders, but the public's attention is not focused on this bill for understandable reasons. Here is the responsibility of the opposition, the responsible opposition, which, by the way, draws attention to this in a different manner, even at nighttime, and does not simply say that Article 6 In the third line of Section 3, change this word or take it out, but points out what the actual basis and purpose of this is. The actual basis and purpose of this law is what János Lázár, then a minister, explained at the German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce on 5 June 2016 at the German-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and I quote:. In fact, in the coming years, the number of employees in the public sector should be reduced by about 300,000 employees. We're talking about 20,000 of these. This is what really and thoroughly needs to be considered, because, by the way, in your argument, there's some sort of improvemental intention, some kind of improvement in competitiveness, and I'm saying that it's pure politics. You are not doing this because of improving the living conditions and working conditions of those working in culture, those working in public collections, but because of increasing their political voting base and reducing the political base of thinkers, parties and people against you. If we see all this, then we have to ask the question of how much people who are involved are actually involved here, whether it is really professional thinking and whether it is a solution that the archivists, together with the workers of the cultural houses, are put into a law. By the way, speaking of this company, since I didn't spend a year of my life with them, I think I can tell you that the professionalism you represent has been compromised even when I managed to change their names in some amazing way. It is not in Europe, Mr. Secretary of State, an archive called the National Archives. Don't take this the wrong way, it's a sacred word for me, especially if it's used properly; for example, not for the tobacco store, or for the archives. For some reason, it is called the Österreichisches Staatsarchiv in Austria, which you consider to be a laboratory, in Hungarian: state archives; but if you go to Italy and enter the archives in Florence, it is called Archivio di Stato di Firenze, in Hungarian: State archives. Professionalism also suffers from such formalities. In this, and in this law, it is entirely a political endeavour that you wish to pursue, otherwise disguised as professional. I don't see it. I don't see any way in which this law could increase competitiveness. [[21.00]] And by the way, please, let's think together about how to measure the competitiveness of an archivist. I'm telling you honestly, I've spent many, many years as a researcher in my home and archives, many, many of my archivists, my friend, my former teacher, my classmate and my former student. I must say to you that the concepts of the market, competitiveness, will not be enforced when reading medieval or modern diplomas. You can't order from me at 9:00 a.m. to read 12 Latin diplomas from 1641, because it's not a item that I order in advance and read. Sometimes I could read 40, sometimes I couldn't read three. And that's what my students and my teachers thought, and those librarians... my life turned out to be one of them. By the way, I think it's fair that you apologized for what you said, because what you said was wrong, you can't measure the performance of librarians in the way that you imagine in this law, and what you're forced to do. In fact, it is not possible to measure the competitiveness of the programme organizer of a cultural house, so that we can then see from figures that he did not organize nine events this week, but eleven events. I think it's unviable. I can't do this! It is also worth talking about honey, because you have the technique of uncertainty because otherwise it brings greater uncertainty to employees than the current system is intended to compensate by giving more money. By the way, they've already done that in the blessed school nationalization. Really, how well it went, the quality of Hungarian public education is soaring! The establishment of the Klebelsberg Center has been very good for Hungarian public education! And then they did it in vocational training, and now it's a one-figure honey ration. But when the cultural bonus was introduced a few years ago, they promised 25 percent in addition. Now, this 6 percent just tastes at the end of the string, because otherwise I have to say that if we consider the situation of 85 percent of the workers here, the guaranteed minimum wage, adding the cultural bonus, and suppose that there is even a language exam, then the gross HUF 230-240 thousand by 6 percent is already around 250,000. That's not enough honey! The fact is that it does not compensate for the type of security reduction that is caused by the whole of the law. Therefore, I suggest that you accept the opinion of the profession. It won't be a big surprise, we'll reject this law, let alone not accept it. I find it tasteless when presented during the plague. I find it tasteless! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Very!]] I therefore ask that the affairs of this sphere be postponed until after the outbreak. Remind yourself of the promised plus 25 percent, and when there is a time of peace, let us discuss it with the professional organizations here in Parliament. Not until then. We will not accept this and we will not vote for it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-04-21-216	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your speech. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-04-21-217	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, They do a lot of bad things in the dark, and I see you guys stick to it, put in the bill at night, sent out at night for consultation, and re-organized it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] to be included in the parliamentary system in such a way that, after a very long law is expected to be negotiated during the night. But you remember, Mr. Secretary, we did the same thing with the theater law. I could say that you value culture so much that it always comes to the end of the agenda, but of course it doesn't, of course it doesn't. You know very well that these are politically insufferable, unacceptable and outrageous proposals, and they put them overnight to see if they can get less attention. But it is scandalous in itself, in a parliamentary democracy, a sector of this weight, in this way transforming a proposal, is indeed discussed in a serious, respected place, so that the public can monitor it. But the whole bill is shameful, and I wouldn't brag about it if I were you. I wouldn't dare bring it to light, because it's very clear what it is. Dear Secretary of State, Well, I didn't think I was gonna cry back, either, Mr. Secretary of State L. Simon, but today that happened. Because at least he was trying to reason, trying to at least make some kind of professional argument! What you've been leading up to here as an exposé, well, I have to say, was impressive in your own way, but not in your content, nor in your political arguments. Referring to Klebelsberg, who, by the way, has done a great deal for this country by building a public culture financed by the state, when you are destroying public culture, it is absolutely amazing. Talking about erasing the past as the Secretary of State of a government that destroyed the system of protection and heritage protection in Hungary is again amazing. And I'm really sorry, Secretary of State, but what you've said here about your amazing willingness to negotiate, about what great negotiations you've had, and how useful things you've heard there, well, I'd like to say that I hope there are still some people in that ministry who understand what the trade unions are talking about. Ask them to tell you. They didn't have a problem with civil servants working in culture, they had a problem with not raising their wages in ten years. They had a problem with a large proportion of public culture workers today earning minimum wage, except for those who were outsourced to public workers. Let's not bring this scandal here now, or let's not mention it. Dear Secretary of State, You say that the legislation will now be adapted to reality. But this reality in culture today, in terms of cultural wages, the misery, is that wages are incredibly low, that public culture and the wages of the cultural area in general are still behind the public sector's wages. As far as I can tell, your cultural policy is very schizophrenic in its own way. There's such a classic iconic element in it, you've shared it with us, which says that the culture you agree with is only the national culture, and the rest that you don't like is not a national culture. And by the way, what they hope is that there is a propaganda advantage, that it can be used as a weapon in the political struggle, that part of culture they are trying to closely control, direct control. This was the story of the Petőfi Literature Museum, and this was the story of this certain centralizing law, which was only half-done, and I suppose, at the time of the epidemic, the transformation of the cultural fund will come back sometime, if the situation becomes more serious, and it will be possible to divert attention from it even more, because I have no doubt that they have not given up on the acquisition or direct state control of those funds. So this is one area. You see political benefits in this area, you want political commissaries at the head of the institutions, and you want to monitor them directly. And there's another area, and that's basically your understanding of going into the soup, which doesn't have any political benefits. Because this proposal you put forward is essentially about destroying public culture as such. Because what is the greatest value of public culture? I think we are not going to say anything new here: the greatest value in this area is the people who work there. And that otherwise not good or not all elements of good civil servant law that I will talk about later, during which these workers are working today, at least that has created a security. I must say that it is an amazing hypocrisy that you are presenting a proposal for a resolution on the occasion of the first freely elected Parliament's establishment, on the occasion of the 1990 regime change, you, who are now beating up one of József Antall's great works, an independent, regulated and independent public service. [[21.10]] That's amazing. That's amazing. I must say that this is unworthy and, at the same time, I must say that it is also causing very serious damage. So I see you have a neoconservative, thatcherist face next to this iconic face. That is what you have been talking about, and that is what Secretary of State L. Simon said, how good it will be if we end the state care here, when there will be no public service regulations, when there will be freedom to fire workers here, to take the wages from one and to give them to the other. What a wonderful freedom that will be! I really want to congratulate you. Any neoconservative politician or economist would lick his ten fingers along with this type of downgrading and downgrading of state systems before such contempt and destruction of the public service. It is no coincidence, by the way, that Mr President has already mentioned the protest of the Hungarian trade unions, and it is no coincidence that the European trade union of public service workers is also protesting against this proposal, because even they understand clearly what the point of this is. You, who entered in 2010 with the programme of a good state and wanted to create a good state, even though you sometimes had very strange ideas about this, are now concerned that all you need is a police state, you just need a control state, which goes beyond that, which creates value, it needs to be removed from here. You say that you need a knowledge economy; you say that when, by the way, a few years ago, the government took money out of higher education in the spirit of a work-based economy, it made a very significant part of it pay, when many people here in Parliament, referring to the work-based economy, talked about a fidesz side, that they didn't need so many college graduates, they didn't need so many schools, they didn't need so many graduates. It seems to me that this has changed somewhat with Minister Palkovic's entry, but he has come from higher education, he knows a little more about it. But if you want a knowledge-based economy, if you don't know or use the word "cultural economy," then let's call it free creation. By the way, there is a cultural economy, there is a knowledge-based society if there are workshops that are not operated by daily market needs and not by state manual control. These autonomy are the engine, the core of this type of economy that you want to eliminate one way or another. Whoever you want will be nationalised, who you don't want, and you'll be put in the cold, and you'll live in competition conditions. Let it be clear that this proposal does not create any freedom for cultural workers, it does not recognise their knowledge, it does not in any way regard their work as value. This proposal is about the fact that the workers of culture are like those of automotive workers, and I am not happy that this condition is there, but this proposal is about applying the same standards to them, which, by the way, are so cruelly applied in the competitive sphere and disregarding workers' rights. This proposal concerns the fact that you are the same employee, the same replaceable tool in this world. But this is unacceptable! And let it be clear that if there is a national interest, then the fundamental national interest is that the world of culture, education and science should not function according to these principles, then the fundamental national interest is that they can function autonomously and safely. This is what this proposal desecrates, destroys and endangers. You say you're going to the competition sector, Mr. Secretary of State said you're going to the competition sector with the best professionals. They're gonna leave even more after this! The point of the public service model is that otherwise competitive payments cannot always be provided by the public service, but can provide predictability and security. This is neither an excuse nor an excuse for ruining public sector wages, but, of course, a market project, a well-run cultural enterprise, can pay better at a time, but the whole point of the model is that the public service provides a stable, secure, predictable career. I'm sorry, but to say that civil servant status doesn't create a career. That's true, it doesn't create a career in itself, but the status under the Labour Code has nothing to do with the career, that's for sure. There is no career there, there are also the same rules as the shopkeepers or the conductors on the train; there is not, by the way, because the MÁV workers are a little more protected, fortunately, until you eliminate them. So, to get back to this, I would like to say, and I would like to make it very clear that you either don't know what you're talking about, or you're lying in a circumstantial way. Make up your mind which one of these people you're gonna take. Let it be clear that the civil servant pay table does not mean that it is not possible to pay any more, but that the civil servant pay table does not mean that there is no need to raise wages for years. On the contrary, the civil servant pay table, if applied correctly, would be about having a guaranteed indexation and, by the way, it would be about a minimum. Are you saying that the Institute will give you more opportunities to acknowledge the extra work? That's right. Then give them more money. Then give them a wage frame, for example, to raise a certain norm, which applies to some of the public sector institutions, so that it can be differentiated from it, but not down, but up, to admit extra work, because otherwise, you say that because you cannot fire an unfit worker. I don't know how you people think about people in culture. By the way, I know very little of them, or maybe not one of them that fits, but you can also divorce someone who doesn't do their job on the basis of the civil servant law. [[L. Simon László: Only very hard.]] That's not what this is about, Congressman Simon, that's not it. It is a question, Mr L. Simon, that the head of the institution, who has been very often replaced in recent years, cannot apply other aspects than those relating to work. I believe that there is such a thing as telling you how serious it is that he doesn't want to work with someone for personal reasons or for political reasons. Among other things, this proposal opens the way for further political cleansing in the public sector. In the Civil Service Act, you had to prove your misconduct in some way, now you don't have to, you have a code of work, and basically you can fire anyone you order from the head of the institution and those who are available for it. Fortunately, a large majority of the heads of institutions are not, but there are certain ones who run to the Secretary of State or the Member to report their own colleagues and ask for stronger tools. [[L. Simon László: How do you report your colleagues?! Shame!]] In conclusion, therefore, I can say, this House, my fellow Members... [[L. Simon László: There is no such thing! It's a shame! Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] The head of the institution, honourable Member, who is not able to manage his own institution by means of leadership, but asks for state power instead of leading it, the head of the institution, I must say that this is not my ideal for the head of a cultural institution, let me put it this way. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to confirm what Minister Hiller has said, that it is outrageous, outrageous and vile, that this proposal is being brought here in times of emergency, during the outbreak of the coronal virus, when you can expect that the public may have less attention on this matter, and when you can expect those involved to be unable to organise their resistance effectively. What I can tell you is that we will do everything we can to ensure that this proposal is given the attention it deserves, and that it is much worse than what you have told us before, that we are upsetting civil servants, civil servants. We don't piss them off, you piss them off, it's this mean, unfair procedure that's pissing them off. It pisses them off that they want to eliminate the security of their employment, and it pisses them off that you underestimate and underestimate the service you're doing to the nation. It's your shame, and we'll always say it's a shame. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-218	Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, lead speaker of the LMP Group, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-219	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I, too, would like to begin with the circumstances under which the law is tabled. I have now been told by my opposition colleagues that they have given trade unions an Easter weekend to express their views on this law. The Secretary of State said that this happened only over a weekend because people are free to read at home at Easter. [[21.20]] In the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, I think we should taste and think about it a little bit. The thing is, as I understand it, Easter is a spiritual holiday for a lot of people when they're with the family in general, and they live a life of faith, not a union leader in this case, for these four days, to read a bill that you want to present in this way. So, to put it mildly, your saying was not entirely in line with the government's view of itself as a Christian Democrat, and then I will blow the first euphemism here in my speech. I'm going on, here they told me that you have consulted everyone, there have been a lot of organisations; the CCP has not, and they are the sectoral union. You may not like trade unions, and even Minister of State Rétvári in the answers says that only trade unions do not like this law, because it endangers their functioning, which, I would like to say, is a problem if it endangers the functioning of a trade union, because the trade union is a very important achievement of the Christian social welfare state that Lőrinc Nacsa knows so deeply and much about. But the fact is, in addition to that, the union is still because it represents those who work in the profession. This organisation was not able to reconcile this law on wages and working conditions, precisely because they knew that it could not be a trade union in the world that would agree to this. The thing is, the reason these onion sentences were put in vain is that you agreed with everyone who appeared on the planet Earth, because they knew that if this had been properly discussed in the sector, before it was presented, everyone who had ever worked in this sector would have stood up and spoken against it. If you know so many institutional leaders who so much want to introduce this, where are they from News TV, where is their open letter from the Hungarian Nation, where are these institutional leaders? Because the imaginary head of the institution is very interesting, and I'm sure I had imaginary friends when I was young, but that doesn't necessarily mean a reason for a law. However, I do not think that it is a cultural thing if, in view of the epidemic situation, people who are dealing with Hungarian culture are asking for this to be postponed until the end of the emergency, then you cannot say that it is okay. This elegance is elegance, I learned that an important civic virtue could be practiced once, and then they could be elegant with cultural workers, and we could discuss it again when, for example, we have the opportunity to put them on the gallery to look at them in person and look them in the eye when they say so. The fact is, there have been allegations which, in my opinion, have not been entirely factual; there have been claims of euphemism number two. The fact is that the pay table has always been open up, so they would have had the opportunity to raise wages, as there were civil servants' statuses where the majority of the government raised wages. Consequently, it would have been possible here too, but this did not happen except for this 6 percent, which is the average cultural worker, who makes no more than the guaranteed minimum wage, 8500 forints, just to be nominal. The fact is, the reason why an institution manager can't raise his wages right now is because he can't move the salary and he can't afford the salary. Moreover, there are many of these institutions with municipal reservations that we are talking about. The last few weeks that you have spent with the municipalities, when it was mostly about withholding funds, it is unlikely that the municipalities will now have more resources to pay these people. So you're saying that there was no wage increase with one of the maintenance guys taking money away from the law about the time before, that's a little bit of a faramuci. Here, both the lead speaker of Fidesz and the secretary of state said how many percent are no longer civil servants. The thing is, 90 percent of public collection workers are public employees. So it's mostly about public collection workers, and it's a bad law for them. I could have read the 1992 debate when the status of civil servant was introduced. That's when we talked about cultural workers. It's very interesting, everyone, if you have the time to see who just said what, I'll come back to that. There was the original idea that if the A/1 rating had been given a minimum wage, then there could have been a career model based on a degree and career development, then, obviously, this word had not been used, but it could have done a career model-like thing for cultural workers. This was also the intention of the Antall government, and they could not do it, as the economic situation was as it was. I would like to open a parenthesis here that against the Public Employee Act of 92, the Association of Free Democrats and its youth organization, Fidesz, argued. Looks like you guys haven't changed your point of view since. Welcome to a position with the SDS. The thing is, let's talk a little bit more about the career model, why cultural workers don't have a career model. I think this career model was promised in 2015 by the Fidesz government. Where's the career model? Answer that. The career model of cultural workers, which was promised in 2015, where is it? Why didn't they bring it in in four days? Why wasn't it so urgent in addition to their onion words to protect national culture? Why couldn't that be submitted? Okay. I hope that the answer is still there. I'd like to say a few sentences about the Secretary of State expo. The fact that you are starting to expose this law to the migration crisis in 2015 reduces the possibility of a slick professional debate; this is the third euphemism. Because there are many things that I am sure will be affected by the migration crisis in 2015, the status and pay situation of cultural workers in the public employment sector, but this may come from my ideological under-qualifiedness. I rather feel that you have said this than that when there are different political sites where there are ideological events that need to be put into everything. Maybe this argument deserved a little more than you need to start from here. The mental shift that I didn't fully understand, I'd like to reflect on the three points you said. Culture cannot be an elite monopoly, and it does not involve tax forints on a subject basis, or we make our own culture a priority. Public collections basically preserve national culture, so they are in line with the fact that Hungarian culture is considered as a priority, because I do not think that the things in the public collection have been replaced by a political side, and here it has been able to achieve an open society. So they're okay with that. So this assumption that cultural workers receive tax forints on a subject basis is not subjective, it minimizes their work. They don't get it on the basis of a subject, they get it for a very important job, for a job you might think the national side thinks is important. I don't know what the subject matter is. What's the subject matter of working in a public collection? It's just that he's getting a tax forint, and he's getting involved in the redistribution by earning it. And the third is that it's not the monopoly of the elite. My fellow Member Ander has already pointed out that this will be a problem most often in places where the library and the public collection are the only means of local culture available to almost everyone. It is precisely that what will remain is the elite ways of cultural life, which the state keeps up with the community's money in order not only to be available to the elite, but to everyone. So even though you're telling me these three points, what you're saying is completely against the law you've been tabled. The fact is, and I would like to refer to the words of Mr Vice-President here that, several times, twice so far, I hope that he will be here, or I hope not, but I think this will be the third time, and I have given you the opportunity to say, in the words of my fellow Member Nacsa's favourite, that this is just a dissident rumor and that there is nothing to be done to remove more jobs from the status of civil servant. Here's the report, tell someone on the government side it won't be like this, we'll spread rumors. Everyone here will remember, I'll calm down if you can say it. They can't say it. They cannot say it because they know precisely that the systematic purpose of this law and the preventive law on people excluded from vocational training is to systematically break down this whole thing, which was first the achievement of the Social Democratic movement, in fact became very similar to the Horthy system between the two world wars. [[21.30]] And here I would like to turn to the ideological part of the matter. He kept talking like a liberal, Mr. Secretary of State. He started by how the world has changed, and so it needs to be changed as cultural workers work. The world has changed in many ways, and it would be good if we didn't change it. Perhaps the things that used to work in this case should not be broken so that my fellow Member L. Simon can refer to the West. It is also shocking that Fidesz has recently made reference to what is happening in the so-called developed West. [[L. Simon László: Why?]] Because, as I understand it, another party that thinks that what is in the West is basically good; you think that is fundamentally wrong. That's how I knew it, but maybe I was watching the wrong movie. [[L. Simon László: Bad. Intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] That's right. So the thing is, I think that in itself what is in Austria or what is somewhere in the West is not an argument, it is a geographical claim. The thing is, in itself, it's that in the West, it doesn't argue a bill. Explain why it's good that it's in the West. It is in itself a sentence that it is in the West, a liberal argument, as well as a liberal argument that the world of work has changed, so it is necessary to change the way the state works. Things change a lot slower than we can change that now. It hasn't been long enough since 92 to say that this worked badly. The thing is, right now, it's working badly because you don't spend money on redistribution. This, therefore, is the wages of cultural workers and how much the competition sector absorbs them afterwards or not, this is a fundamental question of money, a question of wages, it is about how much the state pays people who carry out an essential task for the state. Such an essential task is to maintain cultural heritage and national culture. You want to do this, and this is also what the Vice-President has quoted from János Lázár, because it is not considered to be sufficiently productive and, in part, it cannot be ruled politically. The sad situation and I think they will be upset that the last time civil servants in Hungary received a real wage increase during the 100-day programme. That's the thing. Since then, you have been in government, and the people who work for the state are unable to lend a helping hand, because everyone is ahead of you than the state employees, everything is more important than the state employees, and what is shocking to me is even ahead of a national government that is supposed to have important Hungarian culture. And I'd like to say one more thing. It would be worth it to be a good museologist under the new law, Mr. Secretary, I think I can sum up a single explanation. And this is my fellow Member Nacsa who told me not to worry about it. What's a good museologist like? The head of the institution can't decide that in one person. [[Black Peter: Yes!]] No, an institution manager can't decide what a good museologist is, what a good archivist is. [[Black Peter: Yes! That's your job.]] It takes a lot of time to find out whether you were a good museologist or not, since you are dealing with things that have been very long in itself. It's not like it's a good accountant who can't do the job for a given time. It's a little closer to art than market stuff. It's very hard to tell who's a good museologist. And the point is that it is not for us and not for the state appointees to tell us who the good museologist is, but for the posterity, and then for those who sit here in 30-40 years' time, not for my fellow Member L. Simon, not for me. You take this decision by allowing the market into a place where it shouldn't be allowed. The thing is, I think there's a lot of things that aren't for sale. Some things aren't for sale, and that's culture. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-220	Thank you very much. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, lead speaker of the Dialogue. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-221	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State spoke in his expo about the importance of national culture, its support, thus justifying this bill. Obviously, this can only be supported at the first sound. But that is not what this proposal is about, and I will certainly explain why. Now, just briefly, if we had to analyze the background of the bill, it would be another sly bill and then I'd be diplomatically speaking what you're pushing in during the epidemic. There has been an encryption of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, there have been real estates for Mária Schmidt, there has been a dissolution of the City Park, and you must know it well, and now under the radar, I think you've been thinking about what else could be pushed in during the epidemic; I'm curious about what else the future will bring. They're really going to put in all the controversial, unpleasant billings, it looks like during the epidemic, that's what they're using this epidemic situation for; it's really amazing. So here are the civil servants, the librarians, the museologists, whose status can be corrupted, something that can cause a lot of discomfort, but there is no attention, there is no way to draw the attention of society to what they are doing to them, and then it can be done. In fact, in the absence of action during the epidemic, the Fidesz government puts very many social groups in a very difficult situation, and even puts their livelihoods in a dangerous situation, workers in tourism, catering workers, I might add, whose workplace is at risk because you do not act. It's different with the public staff now. They're putting them in danger because they're starting to act. So with this law you've just brought in, you're endangering the livelihood of 20,000 people. That's what they're doing. Secretary of State said in his expo that they were open to amendments, which gives us a little bit of hope. By the way, the Pulszky Society has made a rather detailed amendment proposal, so be kind enough to study this and include what they have written. This company is also ideologically or in ideas closer to the government side, so I recommend this opinion for consideration. According to the Secretary of State, there has been consultation in 2019, and the 2019 negotiations, I don't know how current they are, or he said that he was in contact with the trade unions. Just when you said that, I received a message that there was such a connection, but such outsourcing was not mentioned in these negotiations, it was written by a unionist. So there's a lack of coordination here in connection with the law. There was zero reconciliation. Actually, there's this 2010 CXXXI. It's a law on social participation, and I think they can just throw it out in the trash because they never do it. For the past year and a half, since I've obviously followed the bill closely, I've never seen social consultation on certain legislative proposals. But then it was possible to increase that. Mr. Secretary of State has indeed made a few remarks here during the Easter break that have caused a very serious outrage. I'm glad you've excavated yourself a little, but the fact that there are librarians who don't do anything, so they won't be needed, and that Easter holidays are exactly what they sit in front of the machine and then they can look at them, they really were statements, Mr. Secretary, which the people working in the cultural institution resent very much. This proposal is also against the law. I know that you often ignore your own Fundamental Law, it is enough to refer only to environmental protection, but you are so proud of this conservative Fundamental Law, according to which cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, the protection and maintenance of which is the duty of the state and of everyone. As a result, the museum is a public service, the public property held in museums, the management of the cultural heritage of musical value is in the strategic interest of the Hungarian nation's community. And in public collections, we're talking about them. This proposal puts this at risk. This proposal is against your Fundamental Law. On this basis, the above statements, Mr Secretary of State's statement and this proposal, convey a very bad message to professionals working in the cultural institution. Really! [[21.40]] An important reason for the proposal is that these people will have a better position. It's very positive, it's gonna be great under the law, the state of the civil servants, if that comes into force. Yeah, only one advocacy organization doesn't think so. That's not what the Union of Public Collection and Public Culture Workers thinks. That is not what the European Federation of Civil Service Trade Unions thinks. Neither is the Trade Union Cooperation Forum. The Pulszky Society, the Hungarian Museum Association, does not think so. That's not what the Association of Intellectual Trade Unions thinks. The Democratic League of Independent Trade Unions has also indicated that they do not agree with this proposal. The Hungarian Trade Union Association, too. Neither is the National Association of Workers' Councils. Technically, I don't know, and in return, Secretary of State or anyone can say anything about an interest-protection organisation who agrees with this proposal as it is, in this form. 'Cause it doesn't look like it. When you claim it will be better, but all the unions, all the advocacy organisations, protest against it, it doesn't add up. Let's talk about pay. It is proposed that they will be in a better financial position if they go from civil servant status to the labour code. Well, that's a big lie. The wage situation cannot be less favourable, so they put it this way. The wage situation may not be less favourable, but most people in this status do not work there because of wages, but because of the benefits and the stability that comes with this status. That's what they're taking away from them! The settlement of public sector salaries has not been hampered by the constraints of the pay table so far, these wages could have been increased! This has not changed since 2008 and has not been raised. They've been steering for ten years, and they couldn't lift it. Currently, a real wage is 210,000 forints around a month gross, with a degree and decades of experience. That's what we're talking about. This will only lead to further uncertainty. What was referred to will result in the acceleration of the already typical departure. In the end, it will also be in question whether these people will remain in the country. We're talking about skilled, language-speaking professionals who can leave the country. You keep talking about how you want to bring home as many Hungarians as possible. This proposal is not for this purpose. The draft is particularly dangerous, however, for example, in the case of more modest financial conditions, for example in rural municipalities, because if wages are allowed to be so free, then obviously, while those who want to earn better will go to capital or more developed regions. Regions where there were at least a small amount of cultural professionals will be eliminated in relation to this proposal. Therefore, this proposal is insidious because it takes away the very positive benefits from these people for which they are still working in this position in addition to this very low wage. Acquittal was harder in this position. It's okay that the head of the institution has to explain exactly why someone got up. The notice period will be reduced from 4 months to 15 days in order to compare the work code and the possibilities in public service status. The amount of severance payments will also be reduced as a result. The Jubilee Prize will cease for them. They won't get that chance. There will be no possibility of a job offer in some cases, and this will also disappear. They have more basic freedoms and additional leave for civil servants. It's gonna go away, too. Then you claim that these people will be in a better position if they get out of this status. It's not like that at all. These are the discounts that kept these people on this track. The disadvantage of their lower salary was somehow compensated. Flexibility is also an important reason in the bill. But in the public sector, stability is the most important, not the changes in the labour market, because of the provision of tasks. And here, too, they go against all their civic, Christian values and their Fundamental Law, because there can be no market logic everywhere, Mr. Secretary of State emphasized this several times in the expoze, there can be no market logic everywhere. There are constant values! For example, what the Secretary of State referred to. National cultural values. That's what he highlighted. It's kind of weird that it has to be emphasized by a conservative government. It's kind of weird. Books and artifacts may have little market value, but this is part of our culture, and those who deal with it are part of our national culture. They're pulling the ground out of them now. They're pulling out the security that kept them on this track. Of course, if you understand the flexibility of being a museologist, because that's what we're going to need in agriculture, or an archivist can be a public worker and a street sweeper, I hope you don't understand the flexibility. [[Péter Fekete: Come on! It's unworthy.]] But the problem is, if these people leave the field, where will they find a job? Overall, we do not dispute what Congressman L. Simon has raised that some elements of the Public Employee Status Act should be amended. It needs correction, but not like this. It's in consultation, consensus, negotiation, sitting down with advocacy organizations. Mr L. Simon said that there is no differentiation, which is why we need this amendment. Well, then, not the entire civil servant status of 20,000 employees has to be abolished, but the differentiated wage payment has to be introduced into this system. Instead of the automatic introduction of employment under the Labour Code, it would be more appropriate to introduce rules on benchmarking and quality management. [[To intervene:]] You are now amending the Fundamental Law for the seventh time, their granite-solid Fundamental Law. They have every opportunity to modify this, so we should not eliminate the benefits that these people enjoy. So, overall, we cannot support this, in this form. I hope that Mr Secretary of State has not only given the impression that they are still open to amendments. I ask you to really study the proposals and reactions issued by the stakeholder organisations, and by incorporating them with the aim of what I say once again, we can support it so that it can be differentiated and that performance can be rewarded in this sector as well, so that this bill is passed, because otherwise the Dialogue Group will certainly not be able to support this. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-222	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I therefore give the floor to Mr János Bencsik. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I predict that I cannot speak with sufficient emotional distance about this law, as I myself have been a student of the ELTE Faculty of Philosophy for many years, and a number of people who are now affected by this law were then my classmate, my classmate, librarian, archival students, archaeologists, who are now affected by this law. And I saw, personally, that these people, these young people, have put a lot of work into getting a degree. They were aware that if they had used their knowledge and diligence on the market, they would have received a much higher salary, but they chose to put them in public service. In exchange for their ability to live in their chosen vocation, and in exchange for all the security, honor, and hopeful honor they have hoped for, this law would deprive them of it. To tell you the truth, I was rather embarrassed when I read this law, the justification of the law, and the debate about it, because I remember that in 2018, Fidesz-KDNP won the election, and I now turn to my pro-government colleagues: do I remember correctly? Two-thirds. [[21.50]] So I didn't see any indication that, besides Fidesz, SZDSZ was in government in 2018. [[L. Simon László: Stop imitating each other!]] Because if you look at this bill and the spirit of this whole debate, the mood of it, and you compare it, it's the worst moments of the bad memory of the SDS from its ashes. These concepts, such as competitiveness, streamline, quote the Secretary of State, the more flexible regulation that can follow dynamic changes in the labour market, this is the Vitrigli SZDSZ, we have listened to for years, this is what they bring back with this law. Where is the national interest, the national interest so often referred to? Where's the value creation, the community interest? These are lacking in this justification. Secretary of State Péter Fekete also spoke about how these resources should be distributed more effectively. Translate to me, please, Secretary of State, what this means in practice. So how will efficiency be measured or accounted for? What's that gonna mean, say, in the case of an archaeologist who reveals an ancient fortress, or, say, a restorer who restores medieval frescoes? How will they measure their efficiency? What will happen to the Peaceful County librarian, where, let's say, an insufficient number of literary works are rented? You're letting the librarian go? Or, say, there's a cultural organizer in Borsodnádas, who's taking a sewing class, and the arthouse is only half full, so he's just getting a three-month extension? What will pay for skills and efficiency in practice mean? Interestingly, my fellow Members, this did not occur to them when they decided on their own salary in 2018. Interestingly, then, this aspect, to adapt it to efficiency, has not come up. You would be in a lot of trouble at the moment, by the way, because your fellow Members who have not spoken in Parliament for years only come in to press a button, and they do not have one single individual motion. Why don't you think it's important, let's say, if we extend market rules to cultural workers, why don't we extend it to the whole legislative process? Then everyone will receive their salary by how many substantive bills or speeches they have. And these people we're talking about, they've been getting their wages on the same payroll since 2008, and now they're trying to spot their eyes with a 6-percent wage increase, and they're losing all their benefits, which they haven't taken away since they're no longer getting a cafetheria, so they've lost their travel discount, so they can't really take away a lot. What's left is the kind of sense of security that protects their dismissal to some extent, making it harder for people to be pushed into the market. This bill, my fellow Members, is good for one thing: we have also learned from it, and we have once again been convinced that Fidesz-KDNP is a national, methodical communist and otherwise in its spirit, in its economic philosophy, a virtual neoliberal party; this is what we have just been presented. The presentation often referred to the fact that the Hungarian government also spends one of the most on culture in European comparison, 1.2 percent of GDP. I do not doubt that this is true, but I would also like to see a statement of what happens if we withdraw from this amount, say, the construction investments, say, the renovation of the Castle Garden Bazaar, which had to be handed over three times, because after twice, we had not managed to steal enough of it, even for a third time. If we subtract all of these and see how much money is left for the wages and training of people working in buildings, how much would there be left? I'd like to see a statement on that, too. I cannot ignore Mr. Secretary of State's words of great indignation, according to which librarians who do nothing will not be needed. I don't know when the Secretary of State was last in a library, but it certainly wasn't recently. Because if you've been to the library lately, you should know, and as the secretary of state responsible for culture, you should know that people who work in the library are doing a very diverse, wide range of activities, and their work is exemplary, this work has been done with an exemplary sense of professionalism for years, decades, while they can expect minimal material and social respect. Librarians do not sit next to the bookshelf, but inform, teach, from kindergarten to retirement, and their work does not end at 5:00 or 6:00 p.m. when they leave the library, lock the library door, but develop themselves with home training and further training. The archival workers don't disappear in the shelves either. Without their devoted work, the development of Hungarian science and research would be unimaginable, the expansion of knowledge stores, the exploration of our past, and all the things that a government that should be proud of itself as a national, should be proud of, and should support, and yet you do not do so. They are there, and let us also talk about the cultural organizers, who have a huge responsibility to spread culture in crisis regions. Today in Hungary, they are the soldiers of Endvár who are fighting in the land abandoned 30 years ago, in the constituencies to at least have the minimum chance of breaking out of the social and spiritual misery that the government of the last 30 years has brought to the level to which it has put. But I go on: the museologists do not sit at the corner of the hall, as many of you may imagine; they organize exhibitions, collect, process and preserve values, organize occupations, teach and disseminate culture, they are the day laborers of Hungarian culture, who have been doing their profession for 12 years, once again, with the same payroll, who are now abandoned by you, and receive only offensive sentences instead of respect. Trade unions, of course, have asked to postpone the debate of this law beyond the emergency, saying that there is no possibility of a detailed social debate. The sad thing is, you've been ruling for ten years like there's a coronal virus in this country, because there's no meaningful social debate about anything, either. If there were, this would not have been submitted during the long weekend of Easter, and not now, at ten o'clock in the evening, we would be arguing between the walls of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, One more thing: in Europe, all governments are working on how to keep jobs ahead of the imminent economic crisis, how to prevent people from falling out of the labour market in bulk, or how to get back to work as soon as possible, and now in this situation, you are delivering these people and throwing them into complete insecurity. We are talking about nearly 20,000 people, 20,000 families, fellow Members. What do they tell these people, these families, when they're pushed to the market, to get on as well as they can? In the unanimous opinion of all advocacy organisations, this current law will increase career abandonment, and ultimately the entire Hungarian culture distribution will suffer. Dear Parliament, The debate on the current bill may be suitable for talking about the relation of power to culture in general. [[Péter Ungár: The house rules are different now!]] According to my system of values, in my view culture is generally a framework for the transfer of a civilization, and cultural policy is the toolbox in which we can continue, develop and maintain this system as long as possible. Culture policy must always represent an entire nation, at least to strive for it and to appreciate its workers as much as possible. In my view, cultural policy does not have the task of trying to raise or punish on a world-view basis or especially on a political basis, and, in respect of the creators of cultural products, it is always the work of life and not the biography. The dogmatic canons are not to be fought against dogmatic canons, but to try to rise above the canons, and this is only possible if the nation's imaginary bookshelf is placed side by side with József Nyirő's book My People and Péter Esterházy's work Harmonia Caelestis. The two side by side... [[L. Simon László intervenes.]] I am talking about this, my fellow Member, because I think that the debate on this law is suitable for us to have a few words about the relationship between culture and power in general, although I think it is uncomfortable for you to talk about it too. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] I think that there is a place for this, and I am talking about it because the person who attacks either one or the other is attacking the Hungarian national culture as a whole. [[22.00]] My statement, honourable Members, is that you can argue with him calmly and argue with him, press the button that there has been no national cultural policy since 1990. There is a form of culture cultism, the purpose of which is not to represent the nation as a whole, but to rule the whole with the help of part of the nation. I list the evidence of this cultural sectarian attitude, so that you can understand what I am saying about the creation of the counter-institutions, the scholarships distributed to the spiritual lunar court and the statements, revelations such as Szilárd Demeter, the director of the Petőfi Literature Museum declared to be the supposed spiritual power center of Hungarian literature, on the basis of which he decides who he thinks counts as a Hungarian writer and who does not. This cultural sectarian policy cannot and will never succeed, just as it has not been in the past, not because it is not an organic, but an artificial cultural policy. He's not trying to, he's trying to take over culture. For him, culture is not value, but an inconvenience, a problem to be solved, or a threat to be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I ask you not to consider the many times critical intellectuals as enemies, and especially not as enemies the bearers of culture, the passers-ons. Please note that bread and whips cannot tame the intellectuals of a country in the long run. It may be possible until now, and many of them will be forced to eat from the palm of politics, but I ask you very much, do not believe for a moment that this influence is lasting, because the moment this suffocating atmosphere disappears, you will be reminded, and so will those who are forced to do so, how liberating it is to be freed from this suffocating atmosphere and to breathe. And there'll be a lot of them. Ladies and gentlemen, By the end, I'd like to share an anecdote with you. Count Gyula Andrássy was a great admirer of Mihály Munkácsy, the painter. There were many times that they talked to each other for hours, and there was a time when high-ranking politicians pre-roomed Count Andrássy, and when they did, they called him to account for the possibility that the Secretary of State of the Monarchy might be meeting with a painter from a valet. By the time Andrassy asked them, they could tell us who the secretary of state was in Michelangelo's day. And the answer was, "How would I know?" And then Count Andrássy said you can see it, and even you know who Michelangelo was. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He wasn't even a public servant! Gergely Arató: Church employee. I didn't...]] Ladies and gentlemen, Politicians come and go, but cultural works last for thousands of years. I'd like to ask you to keep that in mind when you press a button on this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-224	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-225	Thank you for the floor. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Dear Secretary of State, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 20 April 2020 the National Assembly discussed the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions before us, as well as the amendment of certain cultural laws. Bill No. 1. Today's practice shows that in today's work in cultural institutions, result orientation is significantly greater than in previous decades. So it seems that the cultural area also requires manager-type employees. It is a clear fact that there are differences between types of institutions at several typical points, another attitude can be expected from the staff of a national minority museum or a ethnic landscape house, exhibition hall, such as a community and event organizer of a cultural centre. At the same time, all public education activities, i.e. the success of all cultural institutions, depend on the staff working in its managing and operating organisation. Each of the 13 recognised nationalities in Hungary today maintains several cultural institutions. Under the law on the rights of nationalities, cultural values created by nationalities are an integral part of Hungary's cultural heritage; every person of nationality and nationality has the right to the freedom and protection of his or her own attachment to the culture, traditions and traditions of the birth or residence of parents and ancestors; the person of nationality has the right to use his or her mother tongue freely in words and in writing, to know, to know, cherish, to increase and to pass on his or her history, culture, traditions. Taking into account this law, the ethnic communities of Hungary have established and run ethnic education institutions that serve the preservation, maintenance, development and re-evaluation of the intellectual, cultural heritage and cultural traditions of those belonging to the nationalities. In this line there are public collections, libraries, archives, museums, image and sound archives, theatres, landscape houses, cultural associations operating without an institution, as well. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It is also the law 2. Paragraph 5 of the Act defines the cultural institution of nationality, which is a cultural institution whose function is to preserve, maintain, practice, distribute and transfer material and intellectual culture related to nationality identity, cultural values, property, traditions and the use of Community languages. One of the fundamental tasks of national authorities is therefore the implementation of cultural self-government. They may participate in the implementation of public and municipal tasks related to the promotion of the cultural care of persons belonging to nationalities, in certain matters relating to national cultural self-management, in the exercise of their right of opinion, in the right of agreement, in the establishment and maintenance of national cultural institutions, but also in the receipt of the maintenance rights and cultural responsibilities of other cultural institutions established by them. At the same time, there are settlements, areas where people belonging to some nationalities traditionally live, but do not have nationality organisations locally. The promotion of ethnic traditions and culture is also important in these places. Cultural institutions serving the majority society should therefore undertake to support the operation of ethnic content, activities that preserve various ethnic traditions, musical or folklore, theatre or theatre groups, organise events with nationality content, and organise an exhibition with a nationality dimension. The Committee considers that the obligation to perform nationality tasks in these non-ethnic institutions raises a number of questions. We do not know where, in which institutions we can expect to have ethnic content among cultural content. It is also a question of who and what services will be required to provide; whether in these non-ethnic institutions the tasks related to nationality content are performed by a specific staff member; he has some ties to nationality, he is able to bring emotional identification into his work and so on. In the case of non-ethnic institutions, the nationality community shall seek the opinion of the local municipal government, foundation, association or other maintainer of the institution as regards the appointment of the institution. According to the National Rights Act, the nationality community has the right to agree on the appointment of the head of the institution, which may, in the absence of a local minority self-government, be a regional or national minority self-government. [[22.10]] We are well aware that the professional programme of candidates for head office has already shown the way in which they work with different target groups, including, of course, their attitude towards ethnic communities. It should not happen that, in the event of a change of head of institutions, nationality activity is endangered or is in the background. Each nationality expects that the above tasks will be undertaken by those employed in non-ethnic cultural institutions, even if they are not employed in a public employment relationship, but on the basis of a contract of employment. In previous negotiations on the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities, our Commission has stated in several cases that it considers employment on the basis of an employment contract to be more advantageous in institutions with nationality reservations, as included in the draft law on the rights of nationalities that will be brought before Parliament in the near future. However, between 2014 and 2018 the portfolio preferred the application of the status of civil servants for staff of cultural institutions maintained by national authorities. Many have also changed employment among employees in the context of the civil service relationship. We hope, therefore, that the proposed law on the transformation of the legal relationship does not result in staff leaving their careers or retiring with severance payments. It would have been appropriate for the national minority authorities to be consulted a little earlier before the proposal was drawn up. Among other things, the bill contains the following. In the event of a change in the status of civil servants, the legal relationship shall be considered to be continuous. The transformation of the legal relationship does not interrupt the limitation of claims in relation to civil servants' rights and is without prejudice to Article 2 (2). The temporary transfer in force at the time referred to in paragraph 8 of Section 8 of the Act does not affect the duration of the legal relationship or the level of working time. There was also no budget for the wage development of the staff of institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments in 2020. The retroactive effect of a 6-percent wage increase means that this salary should be secured for all twelve months of the year. Can national authorities expect to receive the necessary budget support for this? They should, of course, be assured of this from the wallets. There are also pro and v comments on the bill in the communities of nationality. How attractive is the job opportunities offered by cultural institutions if the employer concludes the employment relationship with the employee on the basis of an employment contract providing additional employment? It determines the payment of the Jubilee Prize for civil servants. It's a sensitive question to lose. Is it possible for the employer to compensate for this by employment with the employment contract? If so, could the national government plan the amount of this in the next year's budget? If you're planning to do that, will you be able to find a source in the central budget? Have you been prepared from a budgetary point of view in cultural institutions to keep a higher wage workforce in the event of the departure of those who are employed because of the possibility of a public employment relationship? The status of civil servants provides a predictable career for employees with a system of advancement, payment classes and payments, while at the same time providing the employer with a small margin of discretion in terms of higher wage valuation and incentive, as a result of the constraints on the pay table. The pay table regulating the civil servants' pay classifications has not changed since 2008; it does not allow for significant leeway and differentiated pay in the case of quality work; it does not give rise to wage development; it is less incentive. The change in the civil servant pay table, the so-called jamming of payment classes and, in particular, the payment stages, can also cause wage tension between the wage-based and age-based wage-based wage-based employees and their lower level of payment due to the quality of the work, but due to the wage classification procedure. Is the legal relationship based on labour law or employment contract more flexible? Does it make wage increases or wage differentiations tailored to the quality of work easier to apply? Can you better adapt to changes in the labour market, labour market needs, and can employment on the basis of employment contracts be significantly more beneficial? Each ethnic community expects its own cultural institutions or other cultural institutions, in which nationality content is displayed, to serve as a good example of the fundamental characteristics, culture, language, customs, traditions and historical heritage of the community as a whole to society as a whole. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that those who work in this area have a commitment, professional knowledge, loyalty to nationalities as much as possible. We would like to strengthen the professional side of ethnic culture with workers who ensure this at the highest possible level with all their talents. Of course, it is necessary to pay the right wage for the priority work. We trust that the bill ahead of us and your decision will also serve the goals of the ethnic communities in this regard. Thank you for your attention. Hvala za posornost.
u2020-04-21-226	Thank you, kind speaker. There is now a two-minute opportunity to comment. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-04-21-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I understand from your speech as the lead speaker that what happened was that they didn't read the bill, because they started telling me that 20,000 people would be on the street, that we'd release 20,000 people, that 20,000 people would be much worse. Well, that's not what the law says! They won't lose their jobs, they won't be on the street. There's nothing wrong with that. You have to read the law and understand it, and then it all goes right into place. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Help me understand.]] I'd like to reject the accusations that we put the debate on tonight. Gergely Harvesto said that. You work in the notary's office as a notary. He saw the paper made by the notaries, which put this debate to 15 minutes, only on the previous agenda we argued for seven hours. It happens in the parliamentary genre, there's nothing intentional about it. I reject this slander that for some reason this argument would have cost you the night. It was scheduled for 15 minutes. I would say to Congressman Péter Ungár that it is not appropriate to have a Western or Eastern example, or an Austrian example, or a Kazakh example, or a Japanese example, or a Russian example, but sometimes it is worth taking an international look at what such things look like in other countries. For example, 95 percent of cultural staff in the European Union are not in the status of civil servants. There are a lot of people who are even more flexible. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Only three times the salary of Hungarians!]] As normal market conditions, they are employed in atypical employment relationships by the largest cultural institutions across Europe, but sometimes it is worth having an international outlook. I would like to show President Hiller with all due respect that the archives are not good or bad because they are national or state. In France, the United Kingdom, or even the United States, the archives are called national archives. State or national, that's not the point, but the point is to make it work well, and to do a high-quality job in the archives, it doesn't depend on what it's called. There are examples of state and national archives. I'm asking you not to tell me where 20,000 people are going to end up on the street. It's not that! You know perfectly well that is not the case, and that is why it is more vile to say so in each of your speeches, because that is not the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-228	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2020-04-21-229	I must disappoint Congressman Nacsa, who, in the debate on every single bill, tells this panel that you have certainly not read the bill. So far, the thing is, you didn't hit him. We read the bill, we understand what's in it, so we talked to him. I might add, it's not the first time. We have read in the VET Act, there the status of civil servant has been abolished, we have read in the amendment of the Higher Education Act how foundation universities are organised from state universities in order to eliminate the status of civil servant there. We can read all of this. [[22.20]] We were able to read this law. We understood that they managed to raise 6 percent of the wages in this law when the average wage increase was 10 percent last year. I'm saying last year because there wasn't a salary increase in public culture that year, but not in the years before, so I could have said any year in the last ten years. This is what 5 billion forints, or 5 billion forints, are intended for, and they are even boasting in the bill and parliament. I'm just saying, in comparison to what we're talking about, and then I'm not saying 17 billion of the Mátra Power Plant: the money the Corvin Chain Board has to spare this year and can only spend next year on real estate renovation is about the same 5 billion forints. Let's put the two on the scale of what a great feat the government has made of this wage increase. What concerns the civil service system is that they talk about it being wrong, it's bad, it's bad, it's bad, it's outdated. You know, it's a little like having an old house that's already bounced off, and it's supposed to be renovated here and there, and it's gonna fix the renovation by setting the building on fire. That's what you're doing. Of course, the civil servant law could be improved, because it has not been touched substantially in the last ten years, what has been touched has only made it worse. There'd be something to do with it, but I'll add, there was something to do before that. The solution to this is not to eliminate civil servant immunity in any group, and it is certainly not that we are now going through virtually every group. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-230	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in two minutes.
u2020-04-21-231	Thank you very much. I think I'd rather put this idea on the record than yell at you. I just want to say that the last thing I want to say is that my argument is that in itself it is that something is going on in the European Union, Tamás Bauer was with him about the right to vote for Hungarians across the border. Just as there is no argument that he believes that Hungarians should not have the right to vote across borders because in most EU countries there is no vote, nor is there any argument that now my fellow Member Nacsa has said something about what is going on in 95 percent of the European Union. We argue that in relation to the Hungarian traditions, this law is related to the civil servant law adopted in Hungary in '92, how it is related to the situation that these Hungarian workers have been in. They are in a completely different historical context in the other countries of the European Union, and there is a completely different way in which the already important trade union achievement, which is the civil servant pay table, has emerged throughout Europe. It wasn't said that 20,000 people would be on the street right away. However, it is a problem and this is what our fellow Member, Mr Simon, complained about, that it makes the labour market flexible. That means you can fire people who couldn't be fired before or who couldn't be fired by the previous law. That's the point. So you're gonna be able to fire people you can't fire. And they, having a job and not having a job, won't be working in the cultural sphere. I ask my fellow Member not to say that we have not read the law because we have read the law. By the way, what you have found in the European Union is an example and counterexample of all kinds of things. I would ask you to raise the quality of the debate with at least one as beautiful anecdote as my fellow Member Benchik did. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-21-232	Thank you, Congressman. We now have further speeches from our representatives. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr László Varga.
u2020-04-21-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, after 10:00 p.m., we have to ask ourselves, if we are honest with ourselves, what is happening, because this debate does not make much sense in this form. The fact is that some MEPs from the pro-government side sat in here, they probably received a party task of suffering opposition contributions, but these contributions will not change this proposal in substance. It's not the first time we've been through this, anyway. When in my 20s I began to believe that public participation made sense, I thought that there were good arguments, that there were different social groups' positions to be synthesized, and that then, on the basis of amendments for the greatest common good, the optimal solutions could finally be adopted. These proposals are likely to have to be presented to the House when, in a social group, part of society, there is a social need for legislation to take place. I don't even see that in this case. Please tell me which group of Hungarian society has come up with the need for this legislation to be created by the Hungarian Parliament. I beg you, tell me, I'll be very curious. What I can see is that István Hiller was right in his speech as a keynote speaker, in your narrow elite of power the demand arose for a number of laws, as well, because there is a very vile way to take away public employment from 20,000 Hungarian citizens, endangering their families and their livelihoods in the long term, as Péter Ungár rightly said. Of course, it is not certain that 20,000 people will be on the street now, and then all of them will be on the street in the coming years, because the maintainers will obviously be able to eliminate and manage their employment more flexibly. Obviously, these institutions will not be given more norm to operate, so there will be no positive change in the specific sphere, just as it has not been in the last ten years. And now, at the end, they're putting six percent charity on the table. [[L. Simon László: Come on!]] Yes! Well, that's what's happening. It's not the first time, and it's not the only area where it happens. I may have asked enough rhetorical questions about what is going on here at the beginning of my speech, but after ten years, these questions could be asked about your governance. They're sitting here with this outrageous proposal, which was submitted in an insolence before the long weekend of Easter. What kind of social dialogue and dialogue is this? Why don't you explain it to me? Waiting on Tuesday morning after Easter Monday, in the middle of an emergency, in the midst of the Crown Virus, the positions of trade unions and stakeholders. Well, that's ridiculous. This says you can do anything you want. There is no point in criticising the proposal by making constructive proposals by the stakeholders or by any of us here. On the opposition side, I note that this may not really make sense. Take it back, damn it! I don't usually put it that way, a few may follow what kind of speeches I have, but I think it's the right procedure. Because I was rightly referred here to Kunóra Klebelsberg, who has also done a great deal for Hungarian public education, public education and culture, but I note that as far as public education is concerned, as far as infrastructure development is concerned, the 20th century is concerned. In the second half of the 20th century, very serious results were achieved at a time when there were insufficient democratic conditions in Hungary. But in rural areas, in small villages, in small settlements, the fields of public education and culture were born and worked very well, bringing Hungarian culture to all kinds of populations. You've done a lot of work to eliminate and destroy this, and I'm accusing you of that, by the way, and that should be done. Obviously, some people in this cycle are surprised that I can do this, not so much anymore. I lived in Miskolc during the previous term, that the long-run, well-functioning youth house, which triggered the recognition of a city, was then destroyed by your leadership, which was replaced by a large majority by the Miskolcs in October 2019. They destroyed the youth house and operated a surveillance camera system in its main hall, which is otherwise necessary to operate, but not at the expense of public education and culture. So the kind of attitude you show in this story is not unknown to me. [[22.30]] And the lack of dialogue can also be fully achieved in this story. They may not have spoken to those who work in this sphere for ten years. These people told me that. They lived with a cry for help. On the 22nd of January, on the day of Hungarian culture, they demonstrated in several parts of the country. In the country, too. In metropolitan areas, too. Miskolc, too. The people who demonstrated there honored me by inviting me there. I also supported their petition, and I spoke about it here in Parliament, and I still support their efforts to this day. This petition can, by the way, still be reached on the Internet. I think it is worthy to read it in this debate, because I think this proposal has been made in response to this. And this is what it says: The Association of Public Collections and Public Culture Workers, KKDSZ, calls for the protection and respect of cultural workers at the festival of Hungarian culture. On the day of Hungarian culture on 22 January every year we celebrate our traditions, our thousand-year European culture, and we think with legitimate pride of the cultural and intellectual values created by our predecessors on this day. The head of the cultural government is proud to say that the Hungarians are better preserved than the Western European peoples. It states that, in recent years, there has been significant progress in the basic cultural supply, which has delivered culture to the smallest villages. The government demonstrates its commitment through visual investments, but the operating conditions of the core institutions of national public education, rural libraries, museums and cultural homes have improved almost nothing in recent years. More and more cultural non-profits. operates in the country, which is only favourable for the maintenance and not for the quality of work. Even those working in the cultural sector do not achieve a high average wage even for those working in the budget. As a result of the government's wage policy, in 2020 we are going to receive the guaranteed minimum wage for almost all employees in the sector. Can we really preserve our European culture with underfunded institutions and hunger wages? We ask everyone who is interested in a free and educated nation living in this country, not to allow any further breakdown of public collections and cultural institutions that maintain Hungarian culture, to protest against the humiliating wages of people working in public works, and to support the demands of the union by signing it! And these are the following. 1. We demand the opening of immediate wage negotiations between the Public Collection and Public Culture Workers' Union and the government leaders granted the right to an agreement. 2. Based on wage negotiations: minimum net salary according to pay tables shall be at least equal to the calculated minimum wage, but retain the original wage table ratio. 3. The date and extent of the immediate wage increase in the public collection and public education sector should be independent of the date and extent of the entry into force of the career models to be developed for the sector. 4. The agreement and agreements concluded at the wage negotiations should be considered as valid by all parties to the agreement as the central system of public collection and public education of the local government. The government should provide additional normative support for the implementation of wage increases. 5. In 2020, the operational conditions of the entire public and municipal public education and public collection institution system should be financially strengthened by a realistic increase in the support of the relevant norms and national institutions belonging to the sector. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This petition was drafted by the CCP and its partners, which is why they collected the signature of tens of thousands of our supporters, which they sent to you in the midst of the coronal virus epidemic, and they asked for an answer to this call for help. Your response to this call for help is this legislation. It's an insurmountable story, it's not a social dialogue, it's not a reconciliation of interests. No social groups have raised the need for your legislation in Hungary. It's a shame! The only right solution is to withdraw this legislation and to enter into a dialogue with stakeholders without delay, including the CCP, which drafted this petition. Obviously, if this legislation is not withdrawn, then, of course, I see that, along with the entire opposition, the MSZP fraction will reject it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-234	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2020-04-21-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Parliament is now a darker place than usual, because since the pandemic is part of Hungary, there has been virtually regulation governance since then, as far as the virus is concerned. Here in the National Assembly, theft, corruption, the pissing off of selected social groups, and now the disenfranchization of the law is the trend. All laws are being tabled to the House that have some negative impact on someone, someone, because you simply regard vulnerability, addiction and tyranny as the basic organizing principle under your governance. I really want to start with this speech at 22:35 p.m. Tuesday night, that it really is a shame that in the middle of the epidemic situation, when the otherwise unexistent health and education government should, to put it mildly, be on top of the situation and handle the country effectively, we should talk here in Parliament about you wanting to take away the civil servant status of cultural workers. Is this really the time? Because they think it's night, it's dark, it's a pandemic, and people don't listen? Well, we'll make sure they listen, we're here, we're in this late hour, and we'll give them our opinion. I wish we could do more, but there comes a time when we can do more, and in order for those times to come, we have to be here, because I really want these people, these 20,000 people and their families to feel that we are doing everything we can for them. We'll do what we can. We'll do whatever's in our power. We'll do what we can. Sooner or later, the time will come when we will be in a position to reverse a lot of things and undo what you have ruined in the last ten years. But I'm really asking you, what do you think people are interested in? Because I think a significant part of the people in Hungary are now struggling to survive. Hospitals simply eject sick people. These people and these people's families are concerned about this. Shouldn't you be more concerned about how we can create a normal health situation? But there are people without pay, people on forced leave, small entrepreneurs, parents who are left at home, who are math teachers the next day, and they are constantly available, there is the unsolved situation of unemployed people. Isn't that what we should be talking about? Shouldn't we be talking about the 100,000 children who are missing from digital education, finding a solution to this, how to provide the infrastructure they need? Shouldn't that be the subject of the Hungarian Parliament? Or what happens to high school graduations? Do you really think that at the peak of the pandemic situation predicted by the Prime Minister, they will be taking exams there, teachers, students together, without masks, without everything? Or the fact that more than one billion forints were spent on the National Basics Plan has recently been made public, which is everything but national. Shouldn't we be talking about what's gonna happen to this situation? No, there aren't enough problems for you, I don't know, every task... for you here is the topic of getting the most spotted by 20,000 people. Here comes the question that many people have asked before me, but I want to ask myself what is behind this thinking. Why now, why these people, why so, what does this story show? My position is that this is a virtually political matter, it's a reckoning. It's a payoff, it's a payback, it's an addiction, and it's just that as long as these people are civil servants, the problem that you hate about civil servant rights and the pay sign is that you can't kick people who aren't pro-government or pro-government. They can't put pressure on these people by paying. They're protected by the status of civil servants. You've simply reached your government, I don't know, for the tenth year of your completely paranoid situation, that you don't trust anyone or anything, and you're not willing at all to live up to or let the real public service idea work. They probably don't understand what this public service is about. They do not believe at all that there are people who do not want to do their job in politics, in an autonomous manner, as public servants, and they only look at what is professionally right in the public interest, this is their internal compass. I was a public servant, I know exactly how this works. You don't want to be political there. He simply wants to do his job with integrity, with professional humility, that's what the name is all about. [[22.40]] Unfortunately, you do not want to see this type of man in position, addiction, vulnerability and fear keeping a leash that you like to put on Hungarian citizens to secure your own power. It's very sad, and it's a very painful story for the whole country, but the good news is that systems like this don't last a long time. And by the way, it may not have been mentioned yet, but there is an amendment here in the bill, right, so far it was in the law that the institution of public education, I quote, cannot be committed to any religion, worldview or political movement. It's been in the law so far. Now, this changes to the fact that you are committed to the principles set out in the Fundamental Law. That's what got into the law. [[Some pro-government representatives are talking to L. Simon László.]] It would be a great honor if the Secretary of State and his friends didn't quack here, because the thing is, we're trying to do our job. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Party's on, party's on!]] You don't see that, who are following our work, but there's practically hardly any Fidesz and KDNP here, and they're talking to each other, and I'd be honored to hear what's going on here, and what I'm trying to tell you. So, what's important is that it's in the law that these workers must be committed to the principles set out in the Fundamental Law. We know about the Fundamental Law that this is a one-party constitution, it reflects only the political values of Fidesz, and it is committed not to view the state in a world-neutral way. This is a very important exchange, because you're basically saying that cultural workers also have to do their job in a religious, political worldview. This is a very impressive example of chaining up. And let's say that, compared to the fact that you generally and regularly make politics out of religion, and Viktor Orbán himself doesn't take on the role of a Christian statesman, the circumstances of the submission show that the greatest celebration of Christianity has been ignored. After all, we know that they received this bill on Friday, Thursday night, and they were told to be kind until Tuesday morning, so until the day after Easter Monday, read and comment. So that's how important you thought this very important sacral holiday was, that practically this 20,000 families were forced to do it the way it is, and all the unions were forced to do it anyway. Because I would like to stress that all trade union confederations have stood up for cultural workers, and they have the same opinion that this bill is unacceptable. By the way, that's when the hospital beds were scheduled to be cleared, the relatives' alarm, to go get the sick relatives. It's a very Christian act. KDNP can go to confession again. So this is a bill that has not been preceded by any social consultation. What they've been trying to do over the holidays, we can't see as social consultation. And I also see that the opinion of interest representatives here has been called into the wilderness, because it has not been included in the law. I kept putting out a picture of what the Hungarian Parliament looks like at this late hour when we are discussing this bill, and many people asked me why we came in at all, if they are not listening to what we are saying. I thought it was important to say that, although it looks like we're talking to you, we're actually talking to the citizens, we're talking to the people who gave us the authority to fight for their interests for these hard four years, and we intend to meet this mission and this task. I can say that I would like to make sure, but I think that hearing opposition speeches here, everyone is concerned that this is something that does not enjoy political consensus at any level in the Hungarian Parliament, and that Fidesz and KDNP will be left alone with this outrageous proposal. Because you want to fundamentally transform the relationship between 20,000 people by simply ignoring their opinions, you don't care. To quote a classic, the fact that the people involved see it is completely indifferent. This was said by our colleague Vejkey, who represents the colours of KDNP in the Hungarian Parliament, and as chairman of the committee, this was his reaction when I wanted to read the letters of those concerned at the committee meeting. So, you're walking through anyone without thinking, and that's why it's very important to know that cultural workers are on the agenda right now, they've been hit, but anyone can be next, and we're starting to learn here in Hungary that everyone is going to come to such a repressive system. Because you really want one thing, you want everyone to be your obedient servant. Hungary and this bad news to you, Hungary does not like to be in slavery, and with Hungarian citizens this can be done for a while, many have tried during our history, all of them have suffered a nasty failure in the end. And then there's the EMMI and its inevitable announcements. So really, if there were to be a collection of damaged communications in Hungary, then the EMMI communications should be practically lined up. Here, too, they came with a completely nonsense explanation, saying that the civil servant pay table has not changed since 2008, the representatives of the cultural sector have repeatedly indicated in the sectoral professional conciliation forums that the change in the public employee pay table causes wage tension, yes, and here comes the point, the government, in response to the feedback of professional organisations, will remedy a decade-long problem in the cultural sphere. So, as a matter of fact, the EMMI issued a communication in which, as if the parties concerned had asked them to no longer be civil servants, trying to set up this entire bill. So it's absolutely unparalleled cynicism! It's like these people wanted to get a raise in exchange for giving up important driver's licenses. And what you didn't do was that since 2008, the civil servant payroll has been renewed, salaries have been raised, but it's all been thrown out in the trash, after 12 years without a wage increase, and after 35 percent inflation, they'll give you a 6-percent wage increase in exchange for your rights. So, no, that's not what anyone asked for. So I would like to note that whatever the EMMI is writing in its communications, they did not ask that they no longer be civil servants, they wanted to be touched on the same pay table since 2008. However, the EMMI also wrote, and I quote: A more flexible labour law regulation, capable of following dynamic changes in the labour market, will be created throughout the cultural sector; and I quote: "The head of the institution will have a wider scope of movement, since employment which is no longer tied to the pay table can be a guarantee of quality public service. Translation: It will be easier to fire the workers, and it will be easier to encourage them to do quality work by shaping wages. And by the way, there is an interesting question here: if the civil servant pay table is a kind of barrier to quality work for you, do you think that those working in health care, education, social services do not do quality work, or do they also terminate the public employment relationship to make their work more qualitative? Or what kind of thinking is that? This whole thing is made of wood. It is also stated that the creation of a salary replacement is a guarantee that, overall, those affected cannot fall into a worse wage situation than is currently provided for by the current legislation. In other words, they do not even guarantee that this change will put the workers in a better position. All they promise me is that they won't get into a worse situation. Bravo! And then it will come out that good comrades get a raise, they have been called socialism, they can reward political loyalty, and the others should be happy to stay there and not be kicked out. So, the workers said, and let this be very clear to you, Mr. Secretary of State and honourable members of the Government, that they do not ask for this deal. They don't want to give up their rights and they want a guaranteed wage increase. Above all, however, they would like to have a dialogue, a consultation, which would be the basis, and that they would not be fucked in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic on such a nasty day in the Hungarian Parliament. That's what they want. Because I'm saying this to people who don't have a lot of experience with civil service protection, it's meant in a lot of ways. If these people lose this now, there will be no exoneration restrictions, there will be an obligation to offer a job, there will be a shorter discharge period, and there will be less severance pay, there will be no possibility of a three-year improvement under the pay table, so there is no employee who voluntarily requests this. No one asked for that. And that's where you ask who's next. Social and child protection workers? 'Cause they're the only ones left in the public service payroll, who are practically covered by the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. [[22.50]] I think so, and this is my last sentence, because the time has passed, that this is a very ugly political reckoning, very unworthy, and we will do everything we can to undo this shameful thing and to honor these people in a worthy manner. Thank you.
u2020-04-21-236	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2020-04-21-237	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Who else is on the list? I'm genuinely interested in how this is going to work for you. Do you have a list, and you'll check the ones you've already managed to humiliate, destroy? If you look at the cultural sphere at home, the theatres have been resounded the last time. Did you just get to the next line on the list? Librarians, museum workers, archivists, cultural staff, that's about 20,000 people. Frankly, Secretary of State, I am very sorry that you classified your colleagues, those librarians who do nothing will not be needed. I understand you apologized, but even the thought hurts. I hope that my fellow members of the Government have also understood the seriousness of this. The current amendment of the law creates complete insecurity for workers in the cultural field, and all of this under the corona virus, when 320 thousand people have lost their jobs anyway. For many years, these people have done and have done underpaid and value-creating, respectable work. What you're about to get with this law is everything but respect. Public employment has so far been somewhat predictable and security in this sphere. The new legislation refers to the arrangement of wages between the employer and the employee. I think that the maintainers, the local authorities, are and will not be in a position to provide resources for this because of the current situation and withdrawal from them. In fact, it may be a question of how, when planning next year's budgets, the resources available for wages will be allocated so that there will be no redundancies. Because that's not what you think this law brings with it, I think it does. They're gonna put this shit on the local government, they're gonna figure it out. After such a period, in which a lot of people have become unemployed, thousands of people are now terrified that in a few months they will come to a similar fate as the current law has changed. With the loss of the status of civil servant, all the elements that, in addition to the payments that have exceeded the poverty threshold, have been compensated so far, I am thinking of the cessation of the salary system, the reduction in the amount of severance payments or the loss of the travel discount. For the opinion of the law, professional organisations and trade unions were once again humiliatingly given Easter days, so they had no chance to engage in any kind of professional debate. My question is, did the Ministry do any impact assessment, professional survey of the consequences of the expected changes? Obviously not, although I would like to hope, since after Easter on Tuesday, late evening Zsolt Semjén has already passed the law, carefully chewing through all his letters. Cultural organisations, libraries are needed during and after the epidemic, because people's basic needs are community and demanding culture, which is at risk by adopting the law, by maiming the cultural sphere. Please do not vote to amend the law. Many of my opposition fellow Members have talked about giving us more time to have a fair dialogue and starting again, so that there can be a change. Ladies and gentlemen, Who's next?
u2020-04-21-238	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana.
u2020-04-21-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As many people have already talked about, the cultural sector workers received a special Easter gift from the government, as during the holiday stakeholders had to comment on the proposal, on which minimal changes were made, but unfortunately most of the negatives remained in the bill before us, resulting in the termination of the civil service relationship of nearly 20,000 cultural sector workers, libraries, museums, archives, public works and other employees as of 1 November. Several people have also referred to the fact that the substantive discussions with trade unions and the representatives of the profession have failed, and have left them in an unworthy position by leaving only the holiday days for them to comment on this proposal, and, despite saying, Secretary of State Péter Fekete, these discussions are ongoing, either from a trade union side or from a different location, on the basis of the information I have received. Indeed, the argument that focuses on material recognition is false, and several members of the Parliament of the government said that this proposal was put before Parliament in order to improve the financial situation of cultural sector workers. On the other hand, Honourable Parliament, the fact is that the elimination of the benefits puts the parties concerned in a worse existential position. Therefore, it is not a word of appreciation for professionals, and instead of solving the problems of the sector, you are using the current emergency to spread such a proposal and wish to carry it through the Hungarian Parliament. This is shameful, as it also eliminates the predictable progress that has been made to the people concerned so far, is currently available with the increase in wages over the years, or not to mention a wide range of opportunities for retirement after 40 years for women. Instead, you, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members of the Government, are pushing cultural workers into uncertainty. The purpose of the Orbán government is to bleed out cultural life, and it is particularly unacceptable and amazing that they intend to do so in the event of an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic. I referred to the fact that they focused on financial recognition in their argument, but if it were really important to you, you could have touched the public servant pay table over the last few years, and now more than a decade. Instead, what can we see? They promise a 6 per cent wage increase for cultural sector workers, which is less than 10 thousand forints for many stakeholders. I do not think that what has been said from the pro-government side would hold their ground in this case, and it is indeed a substantial shift. On the other hand, I think that they will only spot their eyes with this, and after the outrage they decided to announce this, but it is not a solution at all, and it does not put cultural sector workers in a positive position at all, neither the proposal nor government announcements. [[23.00]] There is a legitimate question as to what they are up to with public staff, as this may well be just the first step and we can expect further similar measures from the Orbán government. Those affected need a predictable future, civil servants deserve a predictable future. A lot of people have talked about how they appreciate this situation. I could quote countless institutional managers. I would now like to bring here a statement from the director of the Agora Szombathely Cultural Center, Zoltán Horváth, who finds it incomprehensible what the government has put on the table in this regard. He said so only because Agora Savaria is currently operating with a low number and is not doing so in a profit-oriented way at all. So the approach that has been expressed in pro-government contributions is not acceptable to cultural sector workers at all. The Public Collection and Public Education Workers' Union, the CCP and other trade unions have opposed the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to underline that public education institutions, libraries, museums and archives take a lion's share of community building and culture from the capital, from county seats to villages throughout the country. They would therefore be eligible for recognition and should also be recognised, for example, by Agora Savaria's staff, who, in the event of an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic, bring culture to home within the framework of the cultural quarantine. I particularly recommend this to Mr.Péter Fekete, Secretary of State, because, as I understand it, he also graduated from Lajos Nagy High School in Szombathely, just like I did. But not only should this proposal be withdrawn for them, but it should be done for all cultural sector workers. For, ladies and gentlemen, cultural workers should not be in the position of the current authority over the ideas of Fidesz. This proposal is shameful, it goes against European and democratic values, and I therefore strongly object to it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-240	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. [[Intercoms: He's not here.]] He's not in? I don't see it. [[Noise.]] Then we'll move on. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is returning to the Chamber. Noise, interruptions. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: May I speak?]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government line: No such thing! Let's take this job a little more seriously in Parliament.]]
u2020-04-21-241	Thank you very much. When Mr Secretary of State presented this proposal and gave, in a way, explanations of life, I was simply appalled by the way he put these people who work in these jobs. He was able to say that he didn't have a stroke, that a public servant in such a job would get his employment or his relationship with a public servant until retirement under the blessed possibility of a civil servant's employment relationship. Or he said that people who work virtually nothing in the library should not be able to stay in this system of relations. [[Péter Fekete: I didn't say that.]] Yeah, he classified them. Mr Secretary, then look back at your speech, and you classified these people in your introductory speech in a manner that was absolutely shocking to me before you even got to the details. I asked for the floor because there are a few questions which have not been mentioned by my fellow opposition Members, because, in addition to the fact that the bill is simply an outrage, there are still many devils in the details. For example, when it comes to the 11th. Paragraph 2 (2) (b), which is about who can be performing organisations: there is the national one, we have the highlighted one. They're creating castes again. It is written that it can be a national whose company has at least 70 percent of the right qualifications, and the company that has 60 percent is a priority. You were a theatre director, art director, and I watched you, director of 35 plays, and you're the designer of 47 effects, illusions, tricks, and sets. I've learned your biography very well. I've seen countless pieces in Békéscsaba, which you arranged. So a man who has such a professional career says that he supports a proposal that the state interferes with the operation of a company such as the percentage of qualified or recognised. If anyone, you know, is meant to be an actor. You can study for any number of years in any school, if you don't have your talent for it, if your personality and charm don't have it, you can do 18 drama schools, you won't consider him an artist or an actor. Even in the socialist system, there was a huge debate about how someone who didn't graduate from the college of theatre would get on stage and filmed. Well, he was born to do that. The college only provides the plus in which he can unfold, he can learn tricks, tools and different methods to develop his otherwise existing abilities. But I'm gonna keep going, that's the top of the story. It says 30th. § that a conductor, conductor, actress, artist, private singer, assistant actor and group player can terminate their relationship if the leader could not give the employee an artistic task for at least 40 percent of the number of lectures in the previous season. Well, think about it. Well, why don't you tell me, if you're gonna play the Toth's Marisha, you're not gonna know Mama Ubü. Or whoever's playing Juliet won't know Gertrudis the next day, because one of them and the other is a different type of character. And you've never heard of, for example, one actor's only character role bringing a full house to the theater for the whole season? ! Come on, think about it. You're exactly the expert, because L. Simon and the others don't know anything about it, I understand. [[Defiance, uproar and interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] 'Cause they weren't involved in this work, and by the way, there's no idea how a piece of it would fit together. Well, you do. Well, don't tell me you built on Frosch, I don't know how many seasons you've spent with Bat. If anyone does, then you know that an actor plays one of them authentically, you don't know the other. And at what time will this outrageous legislation be introduced? When there are no theatre performances due to a coronal virus epidemic. Do you like to tell us what data you will use to determine 40 percent in the next season, after there are no lectures and there are no pieces that you would have made as a new presentation? Let me tell you how this will be applied for the next season, for example, because otherwise, this will be an existing rule for the next season. Then tell me, did you meet a museologist, librarian, archivist in person? Did you work with them? Did they enjoy their company? I've done it a lot. In the library, the librarian was there for months during my studies, my papers, my thesis, my scientific work, and he lived for his own success to create a work with his help. And day after day, as I went in, he brought me the additional materials he found because he was interested in the subject, and he searched until I had the literature. Or a museologist who says that I would like to present to the new generation this or that era in such a way that the XXI. It also corresponds to the century, but also to historical loyalty, and night and day, for weeks, months, he plans and thinks about how to do that kind of exhibition. You people, I'm sure, weren't together for a long time, because then, in such a ignominious way, this opportunity, like a civil servant's relationship, will not be lost. What you have said so far, what are the problems that you think need to be solved, must be changed, these are not questions of the quality of your relationship. These are questions of working conditions, questions of social appreciation, questions of good organisation of work, questions of perspective. I'm talking about these people, you know what I'm thinking? Humility. They are humble in these works. There may be a percentage or two of them who are just trying, who might take advantage of some of the advantages of the job, but I apologize now, and this cannot be extended in general. [[23.10]] In every social group, every situation, there's always people with skills and opportunities. Everywhere! Just look at this parliament. There are at least ten people I still don't know what they're called, because practically once every three or four months, they go to the vote for three minutes. So I don't know him because I don't go in, but because he doesn't go in. And those who do not speak for four years, and those who have this position, I'm sorry, but if anything, then parasites in Hungarian society! Because we and some of my fellow Members are here all the time, if the meeting is five o'clock in the morning from nine o'clock in the morning, or in any way make our fates harder, they make our day-to-day work difficult. So if you're talking about it, and your associates are talking about how in this social group, which is what this proposal is about, there are people who take advantage of it, well, you should look around yourself first, because then you'll be taken as an example. [[Intercoms.]] They're taking an example of you. Then there's the next topic, the Jubilee Reward. The law says that the Jubilee Prize can be given for another five years, because the author of the legislation often has not met the Jubilee Prize that and as it is: 25, 30, 40. So what you're saying is that if you've been at that archives for 34 years, working decently, you're not gonna get your 40-year reward because it's six years from now. Show me a man who's been doing his job fair and square for 34 years because he's probably fair, since he wasn't fired, and he's served 34 years... Why doesn't that deserve the 40-year anniversary reward? Would you like to tell me about this? How do you explain that to these people? This social group's average age is high precisely because young people today do not want to go into these jobs anymore. Today, if he tells an 18-year-old high school student that what would you say if you were a museologist, he'll look at you and say, "Are you crazy?" Well, what kind of social respect does that have? How much do you get paid? How much do you need to serve? Or I'll tell him he's an archivist. What? ! Is it that old? But whether you like it or not, it's a matter of our future to preserve our past, in what capacity and accessible. Young people today, do you know what you should have done instead of this proposal? For example, to introduce these professions, such as making them like them, because each of them wants to be economists or communication people, so that they can work as little as possible for as much money as possible. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not to organize an exhibition at the museum! Not to organize pieces of our past into the archives for the future! No! Easier to make money. And you know why? Because the spirituality of the entire government is about being someone, having relationships, then going into a greasy job, and not giving them any kind of performance, but nothing. 20-year-old State Secretarys, 25-year-old CEOs with no experience for young people today, this is the perspective you give. And they bring in a piece of legislation that kills even more those enthusiastic, dedicated young people who might want to unfold in these occupations; they even scare them away because at least there was an opportunity not to say the word retirement because it was pejorative, but it was that they could do a lifelong calling, even until retirement, with humility, honesty and devotion. Why do they want to bring down the last social group we can say they're serving? However, we should all serve society in the first place, and then they can come after us sometime, but they actually serve us. And I stress that I always speak on behalf of those who do that work with honor and integrity, and we do not focus on the fact that there are some scoundrels who might take advantage of it, because, by the way, forgive me already, but in these professions I have never seen anything like using the situation in general. More likely, in the administration, an administrator who spends half his day nailing, even though they have no idea of taking away the status of civil servants, and even government officials, such officials, and castes, have been formed here for ten years. These vocations are about duty. So I ask you very, very much, as my fellow Members, in an outrageous time, have dishonorably, with an outrageous suggestion, with an outrageous voice, ripped off the residual self-esteem of these people, please, either withdraw them or define them in a fundamentally different way. Because there is one more thing to remember: the code of work to which these people are subject is not a labour code, but an employment code. The last guarantees have been wiped out in the last ten years from the Labour Code. Even for these people, this civil servant relationship was a little higher, a little more fairer than, say, a worker subject to the Code of Labour. But you weed it out, took out the workers' real rights, and now you want to push these decent people into the relationship that is truly market-based, but that is not for the employee, but for the employer. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-242	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm going to ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I will ask Mr Péter Fekete, Secretary of State, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-21-243	Ladies and Gentlemen, On the one hand, I am honored that you are here waiting for me to have a return answer and to hear my answer. I'm gonna ask you to fix a thing or two. It is indeed after 11 o'clock, and indeed, in the last three hours, I have listened to all the speeches that are worthy of a secretary of state, sitting on my chair, looking into your eyes. But let us tell TV viewers and Internet viewers that these benches are not so incomplete because they would not be of interest, but because, as a result of a seven-party settlement, you have decided that only the speaker who will be the next speaker can always be in the room. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There are never more of them.]] Please also tell the television viewers that the fact that we are here at 11 a.m. wasn't the government's or the State Secretary's false plan, hidden under the cover of the night, because this meeting was scheduled for 3 p.m. and we were here at 3 p.m. If that were the case, then the subject of avar burning would also be moved somewhere under the cover of the night by the Deputy Minister of State or Secretary of State on the walls of Parliament. It has been said on several occasions that this conversation makes sense, that this debate makes sense, and that there is a constructive debate at all. Are the 22 speakers interested which 22 speakers did not seek one single point of analysis in this law, which would actually lead the world forward, really interested in what we have been going through? If so, even though everyone would very much like to go home, I would like to take a few more minutes to tell you now, not as a reading, now not as a prewritten text, but as the process that we have been going through. Ladies and Gentlemen, We started these negotiations a year and a half ago. We took these negotiations very seriously. The basic question was how to pay people in culture in some way to sort out how to settle it. And indeed, one of the solutions would be to keep the civil servant law, sit back and double all resources. Can we do that? Do we have a chance? When we tell Eurostat the result, the statement that says that with 1.3 percent GDP, we spend the most money in the field of culture in Europe, this figure cannot say that it can be a good solution if we leave everything this way and double everything. But why is that? I'm asking you. When we analyzed why this was the case for a year and a half, we had to see that Hungary maintained three systems in parallel in a unique way: we maintain a state system with a great deal of money spent on our state cultural system, we maintain a municipal system and, moreover, we receive constant attacks if we do not support the private system, the independent art sphere with sufficient money. So the maintenance of the three parallel systems does not allow us to simply double the resources in all three systems without thinking, since the taxpayers' forints do not allow this. [[23.20]] So we need to think about rationalizations, what are better-meaning reflections that can make any of the three systems more effective. Over the past year and a half, I have conducted dozens of negotiations with professional organizations and institutional leaders. And I meet four kinds of people. These four types of people can be attributed to these four groups in the current negotiations on the subject of this employment relationship. One of the types of professionals who has been through such a process, who, for some reason, is working in a non-public employee system instead of a former civil servant system. There are a lot of these, especially in the field of performing art, but we can see that our institutions have also been in the field of public education, and those institutions who, for some reason, work in a new system can report that they have been able to participate in a more efficient, much better functioning system. The heads of institutions are happier as they can make better use of available resources. The people who work there all bring more money home, and they are more happy that they do not have to operate according to the old civil servant system. That was one of the information. We meet people like you who can prove that. The other type of person we meet, who ask us to solve this problem, because they say that although it has been said here several times that the public servant's pay table is open up, but the maintainers do not allow them to live with this openness. The maintenance staff will tie their hands to that theater director, tie their hands to that institution manager, and say that my dear friend, your available salary can be no more than the civil servant's pay table. So they keep asking us to change the intention to solve this problem, let this kind of shackle be taken off their hands. Then the third form of negotiation I meet, who beat and beat it on a political basis, because this is a good opportunity for us to now be able to address and debate wider social groups on this issue. And the fourth layer that Congressman Nacsa was talking about, who are a little led, they are afraid. And when we're talking about dialogue here, what's my job as Secretary of State? My primary task is that with those Members, and I am extremely honored that there are those who are watching me, what I am talking about, I am trying to convince them that we have good intentions, that our intentions are pure, that there is no mention of tampering with these workers in the cultural sphere. One of our tasks is this. The other is to reassure people in the cultural sphere that it is not true, your work, my dear friend, we need it. Well, isn't it true that archival workers are being turned into street sweepers by the government? It was a debate in Parliament! It's insufferable, because it fits people's minds. No, we need the archival staff, we need our librarians, and I need to stop for a second, because this is the third time my sentences have been twisted. In a television interview, the reporter asks whether the librarians have something to fear. And the answer to that is, no, there's nothing to be afraid of any well-working librarian. By the way, not to mention librarians, yes, there's something to fear for any public servant who otherwise doesn't do his job well. By the way, this isn't a violation of the librarians, I'm sorry. It's not like that. I must reject the words of the President, the Minister, when he suspects any political cleansing in the preparation of this law. I was the director of the Jókai Theatre in Pécsaba for eight years, I was vice-director of the National Theatre for two years, I ran the National Circus Art Center for three years at the time, but never, one employee, whether he was a public employee, an artist or an employee of background trades, had ever been discriminated against in these institutions because of his political view and ideology. So to assume such an intention, to suggest such an intention, this can serve to mislead the third category of people out of the four, in order to fear those civil servants whom we would specifically like to be able to do their job in better circumstances. It's not like anyone wants to divorce these people, 20,000 people. Who would do the job? We need them! We want these libraries to work well, otherwise we wouldn't have made such a law that every small village has to have a public culture scene where someone works and someone serves the communities there. Why would we make that law if we wanted to get rid of them? It's not like that. I have to refuse. And when we are talking about a constructive debate, I ask the question about the 22 speakers that no one, a single person, has thought that behind this law there really is a constructive, a forward-looking, a better use of public money. Professional organizations asked, on the one hand, that we give something quickly, that some source should appear quickly, that the workers feel that there is something to talk about. Here's the six percent. They asked that in the long term there should be some sort of wage arrangement, but it should not go into a bottomless well, not a carpet-like one, but a wage-mass-distributable, indeed good work, which can indeed be given to creatively, forward-thinking workers. And then, when we talk about 6 percent, we're also struggling to make this 6 percent appear as a wage mass, going backwards from 1 January. It's a very small amount of money, six percent, we know exactly. But the 8 percent that we had at the beginning of the year, if we're treating this 6 percent as a wage mass, it's probably something that can be started in the second half of the year. And our statement was that the cultural secretary of state would do everything in his power to accept all creative and all forward-looking proposals, and that, on the one hand, the kind of wage increase that we started would be carried out next year, depending on the country's capacity to perform. I will continue to represent this and ask Members of Parliament for the assistance that this law is now adopted in this way, because there is no bad intentions behind it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-21-244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Our fellow Member, János Bencsik, pressed a point of order button. I'm gonna need you to report your point of order in a minute.
u2020-04-21-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a question that, when discussing the agenda, in view of the seriousness of the subject and in order to preserve Parliament's dignity, we have the opportunity to make sure that all our fellow Members are in full capacity to understand it. And there's a chance that we can filter out drunks by probing or otherwise. [[L. Simon László: Good idea!]] and thus to those who do not have their full judgment, do we thank them for their work and say good night or, in some other way, ensure that the further debate takes place in accordance with the dignity of this House? Thank you very much. [[L. Simon László: Who drank? Sándor Farkas: Who do you mean?]]
u2020-04-21-246	Thank you for asking, Congressman. At present, we do not have the opportunity to examine this, and there is no practical guidance for this to happen. So I can't afford that. [[Sándor Farkas: Who do you mean?]] Dear fellow Members, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Act CXXVII of 2012 on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the conduct of veterinary services. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Government referral T/10097. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2020-04-21-247	[[You will begin your speech after setting your microphone.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Food Chain Security Strategy adopted in 2013 has put the relationship between the actors responsible for this area on a new, up-to-date basis. The effectiveness of the strategy's exemplary overall approach in Europe has also been demonstrated by the achievements of the field in recent years. The state's mission is to improve food safety, protect people and society. With this objective in mind, we have now tabled an amendment to this law, adapting it to the challenges of animal epidemics, counterfeiting, quality, administrative reduction and harmonisation efforts of the European Union in the food chain. [[23.30]] In addition to the above, as Mr President pointed out, the bill on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the Act on the pursuit of veterinary services is also amended. The proposal facilitates further development of the professional work of Hungarian veterinarians, the more efficient and economical performance of the public body, thus contributing to a higher level of protection against domestic animal protection, food safety and animal epidemics. The proposal before Parliament offers a number of solutions to the most common administrative, procedural and administrative problems encountered in recent years, implementing and harmonising the recently adopted EU legislative act aimed at a comprehensive regulation of the area. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to mention and explain some of the major amendments contained in the proposal now. The proposal contains a number of forward-looking provisions in the framework of anti-abuse measures. It creates the possibility of administrative action and sanctioning the establishment of dual food quality, and makes the producer of the food responsible for the elimination of this practice and, in the case of non-domestic food, the first person placed on the market in Hungary. In order to reduce food chain infringements, it is necessary to say that the food safety and quality checks on food and veterinary medicinal products should be carried out by the Food Chain Supervisory Authority's laboratory, which is suitable for this by means of its means and personnel. In order to protect human health, the draft ensures that the food chain monitoring authority makes an internet website which offers for sale a counterfeit or non-marketing authorisation for food, veterinary medicinal product or plant protection product. The proposal also extends the statutory obligations for feed business to recall products and the conditions to be met in the course of their operation. In order to increase the effectiveness of the epidemiological measures, it is laid down at a legal level in which cases the national chief veterinary surgeon has the right to direct professional instructions when a food chain event, epizootic animal or plant disease occurs, is highlighted to the food chain inspection bodies. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to improve competitiveness, efficiency and administrative reduction, the proposal also includes favourable provisions for businesses. The amendment to this effect is intended to reduce the administrative burden on those entitled to compensation, thereby allowing VAT to be declared after the actual payment. In order to reduce the administrative burden for those obliged to register in the food chain monitoring information system, the food chain supervisor shall set out the identity of the customer ex officio before the start of the activity involving authorisation or registration, and shall transfer any changes in the customer's data or operation. The processing of required personal data must be based on a legal basis. The current law lacks a number of regulatory registration requirements, such as the veterinarian's records of the use of veterinary medicinal products or the data to be kept by the spraying logbook or the keeper. In addition, minimum requirements for the content of veterinary and plant health prescription will be laid down at legal level. Dear Parliament, As I mentioned at the outset, the bill also includes amendments to the Act on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the Act on the Conduct of Veterinary Services. In the course of veterinary activities, there is a clear need for veterinary services to include an institution where simpler, mainly medical interventions are carried out, but not significant surgical interventions. It is important to determine the fundamental difference between a basic supplier and a clinic for full veterinary care. In addition to the professional aspects, this will also help to provide information to keepers. The proposal facilitates the coordinated work of the three large areas of domestic veterinary practice, university training, education, the public veterinary authority and the public body primarily composed of service veterinarians to assist each other in their professional activities. It makes it possible to carry out chamber ethics procedures at national level, to provide effective and economical training for members of the Ethics Committee, and to carry out chamber tasks more economically. In addition, it contributes to the protection of Hungarian veterinary practices, helping to make the necessary professional decisions every day in veterinary practice by professionals who are involved in the professional work of the veterinary service provider, who contribute to the Hungarian animal protection, food safety and disease control activities in an appropriate and professional manner. To sum up, what I have said: with the bill before this House, the government is declarively seeking to implement its food chain security visions so that the authority can intervene in as few places as possible in the operation of the economy, but if it is necessary, it can do so as effectively as possible. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill and to support it with its possible votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-248	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. In this context, I will give the floor first to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-21-249	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First, the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and official supervision. I would like to say something about the amendment of the law. Food security is a priority area in Hungary, the importance of which was recognised first by the government in the European Union. The establishment of the National Food Chain Safety Office, the National Food Chain Safety Office (Nébih), which supervises the whole sector in a complex way, was an important step in protecting the food chain in 2012, and then, as the State Secretary said, the Food Chain Security Strategy was adopted in 2013. One of the most important pillars of the food chain security strategy is that food chain products should always be healthy, of high quality and safe, and that all actors should be responsible for their production and distribution. I would like to draw attention to a very important issue in the bill: the dual quality of food. [[23.40]] Article 2101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council welcomes the fact that a product is marketed in Hungary as being the same as a product marketed in another Member State, while the product marketed in another Member State differs significantly in its composition or characteristic from the food marketed in Hungary, except for legitimate and objective reasons. This misleading commercial practice has been regularly observed for years in our country, which is particularly sensitive to domestic food producers and producers, who are honestly doing everything in their power to guarantee food safety from the farm to the consumer's table, as required by the government and the consumer society. In order to protect honest Hungarian producers and consumers, I support this proposal, and I also ask my honourable fellow Members to support it; support any proposals that help to curb and curb the activities of unfair market players. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the bill, we can see, as Mr Secretary of State has explained to me in detail, that the amendments contain harmonisation of EU law in the regulation of specific fields, and, based on the experience of recent years, they offer solutions to a number of administrative, procedural and administrative problems. CXXVII of 2012 on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and on the conduct of veterinary services. Taking into account the proposals for amendments to the Act, it can be concluded that all will serve more efficient, simpler work. This is 44. I would like to highlight the provisions of this section. The proposal ensures legal conditions for the relationship between the keeper and the veterinary service provider by establishing specific rules. This will certainly lead to the prevention of a number of misunderstandings and conflicts, and the unresolved situations so far can be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of what has been said, please support the amendments made by the Ministry of Agriculture, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-250	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2020-04-21-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal before us does indeed contain elements that have been said and which are eligible, there is no problem in these, and they have been very well said, so I do not want to repeat this. On the other hand, there are some things here that I think it is important to say. It's almost 3:00. I understand the aim and should also be supported, but I regret that genetically modified feed and food of plant and animal origin are not included in these criteria, while it is a case that has been almost unprecedented in the last ten years that the entire Hungarian Parliament has taken a stand against the GMO lobby here, and we have very rightly recorded our objections to it even in the Fundamental Law, and, as I have said, it was indeed an all-party, all-Parlament claim. Although I know that it has been a long time since then, and this GMO is no longer a current issue, since new technologies have emerged which do not belong to this category. So either we have to bring in new legislation to ban them or we have to accept them. Obviously, this must be the result of another professional debate. I am pleased that there will be changes in the traceability of veterinary medicinal products and plant protection products. Here I have brutally many bad examples of current conditions. Here, mainly in my narrower living environment, northwest Transdanubia, I know of a number of foreign-interest holdings with a number of thousands of hectares that systematically, year after year, are repeatedly violating the current pesticide use legislation, and, indeed, even after a signal to the authorities, there are no visible consequences, and they continue this practice in the same way. You can't be surprised, it's coming from the Rábaköz that there's been brutal bee mortality in the last few days. By the way, this was published at such an early stage this year in Somogy, Zala and Tolna counties. Only if we go through the news can it be seen that this problem must be taken seriously. So no important sector of the national economy can act as if it is not responsible for the sector which is seriously damaging in its use of pesticides and thus endangering the livelihood of Hungarian families. Therefore, all traceability guarantees must be supported here, but it is very important that we are able, in practice, to go through with this, to verify it, and to have real consequences for possible abuses, because, as I have said, in the current practice, even if I, say, signify this to the authorities with concrete evidence as a Member of Parliament. But it's another story again, and I've already explained it in the form of written questions. Article 6 This also concerns a proposal to be supported. I would like to highlight the issue of soil protection here. I am terribly sad every time this topic is spoken here in Parliament, because we talk very little about it, even though it is a very important matter, and apparently the question is not taken seriously enough on the government side. We will see, in practice, what implementing regulations the Minister intends to fill this up with, but for the time being, this half sentence seems very thin, while it is one of the most serious problems of the coming decades, the most serious agricultural challenge of how we can preserve soil productivity in such a way that it can be linked to sustainability. This is 17. I would also like to jump to the section on the food chain inspection body. It points out that it may impose a plant protection restriction or refuse the consignment, and the draft legislation sets out in detail when this may be necessary. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that such tools have been at the disposal of Nebih, but have not made use of them often enough, and this has seriously affected many farmers, even those working in the fruit and vegetable sector, when they were covered with questionable quality, unknown origins, such as the wholesale market or even food chains in previous years. I trust that the Nébih will take these challenges more seriously in the future, and that it will also exercise the power to refuse shipments. The legislation also talks about animal pests, which is indeed an important tool for protecting domestic agriculture and protecting farmers. I'm not saying that this is necessarily the job of the Nébih, but it would be good if one of the authorities finally took the initiative to take action against invasive species. This is a very ad hoc and elusive area for the time being, but it is causing more and more serious damage. Of course, the public generally only encounters the few invasive mammalian species that are striking, which can be easily broadcast in the news, and which is striking, but in fact not significant for the domestic ecosystem, but, let's say, in the case of fish species, molluscs or arthropods, the state no longer assumes any responsibility at all, at least in practice we do not see this. The European Union sometimes expands the list of these species, and we are informed of this, and I think this is also happening at government level, but this is not followed by any practical action, and in most cases we are now saying that this is irreversible damage. Once again, I do not say that we have to discuss this in connection with this law, or that it is precisely the job of the Nebih, but I thought it was absolutely necessary to say that we should now do something about this situation in practice. Going on, the 27th. It is absurd, here it is intended to promote organic production. Of course, only because European Union regulations oblige the Hungarian Parliament to do so. [[23.50]] I'd like to get back on Kishantos' case. If I believed, to the slightest extent, that these sentences were sincere, we should not talk about grinding down Europe's largest ecological production unit without any technical justification or reason. So I could take this seriously and treat it believably if I added content. The fact that pastures have been declared an ecological area with one feather stroke, and we are still the hosts of Europe in terms of the area in Hungary, taking into account ecological aspects, is quite sad. Without this trick, we would be in the last place in this regard, while communication says the exact opposite from week to week here in Parliament. A further option for the food chain monitoring body is to deactivate communications networks where justified. It is a very sympathetic part, and it is also to be supported, but it can really be effective if we also initiate a serious change in the Criminal Code in this regard, because it is not certain that any websites that have been shot by the food chain supervisor for 365 days are a sufficient deterrent in today's world when the creation and installation of a fake news site for a competent professional can take place in a few hours, so that the website that distributes counterfeit products or prescribed products, but sold there without prescription, can be revived on another surface in no time. So here I am also calling for Btk sanctions in addition to the fact that this is a part to be supported. At the same time, I would like to propose a lump sum increase in the case of on-the-spot fines. The minimum of 25 thousand forints and the maximum of 100,000 forints are, in my opinion, an amount that might have a slightly more serious deterrent effect and could achieve the objectives of the legislation a little more effectively. What I would definitely like to say is the difference in the quality of food. This is a very old struggle here in Central and Eastern Europe, not only our country is suffering in this regard. Slovakia, Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania have also raised this issue at different times and at different forums. In fact, a few years ago, in the Hungarian Parliament, there was such a miniconference with the participation of several countries, at the end of which we accepted a material, and perhaps the European Commission took it and took it in the light of this manifesto. This is certainly welcome, as it is unacceptable that we have been treated as secondary citizens of Europe by producers of these foods and, above all, toilet products. In addition, when it was proved, in fact, by laboratory tests, that the same brand, behind the same boxing, was sold other internal foods, cleaning products of lower quality, typically even without exception, here and here, they were still able to say sorry for the expression, but with bold arguments that the Hungarian market and Hungarian consumers wanted this recipe change, but interestingly always came here of a lower quality and never vice versa. So I am pleased that the European Union, with this Central European initiative, is finally committed to our country, or, more precisely, to give us the opportunity to take this more rigorously and punish it here as well. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In order to fulfil the true authority role of the Nebih, I think it is essential that proper laboratory equipment is carried out. Here, in the law, there's a reference to that. The practice will show what this will mean in terms of budget lines, as I know, at least in practice, this will come back, and it will also be reflected from the answers to my written questions that Nébih is not even able to determine in Hungary today, say, whether it is counterfeit or not. I hope that these references here in the legislation can also mean that these developments can reach the level that we can filter out, say, the Chinese forgery, and that we can perform effectively in the interests of domestic beekeepers, and that is also the case with regard to wine, which we have already talked about a lot about here. These are the comments I wanted to make to this part of the legislation. Once again, I know that there was something between them that I am not sure is a problem that needs to be resolved under this legislation, but I have now had the opportunity to say it, and we will obviously submit amendments to it, and then we will be able to decide on our final position, adoption or rejection of the legislation. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2020-04-21-252	Good evening. Thank you very much, we will continue our work. I give the floor to Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, CHAPTER XXI The biggest global challenges of the 20th century have an increasing impact on the food economy and food safety in many cases and in other cases in unpredictable ways. For example, global environmental and climate changes can lead to the spread of new pathogens. New technologies are emerging, creating new foods and new diagnostic methods. These instruments seem promising in many ways, but they also pose new food chain security challenges for us. I would like to point out that, as my fellow Member agreed in 2013, one of the most important pillars of the food chain security strategy is that food chain products should always be healthy, of high quality and safe. At the same time, in many countries around the world, including our country, the number of cases relating to the illegal distribution of counterfeit or counterfeit foods, products unfit for human consumption, is increasing. The increasingly rigid and more detailed rules of the traceability process ensure that consumers' needs are fully met and that the impact of problematic products on consumers is prevented or minimised. On the other hand, they allow food businesses to respond quickly to questions and incidents affecting the safety, quality of food. In order to achieve this, an up-to-date documentation system should be in place for food, feed, food-producing animals and other substances entering or likely to enter food or feed. However, the Food Chain Act currently only sets obligations for food businesses in order to recall products. However, these provisions also apply to feed companies, which is why the bill amends the Food Chain Act and extends the provisions on re-callability to feed companies. The bill clarifies the provisions on the professional management of food chain supervision, specifying in which cases the national chief veterinary surgeon has direct professional authority with regard to food chain inspection bodies. It may give direct professional instructions to the food chain inspection bodies to conduct official procedures, to the emergence of epizootic animal or plant disease and to carry out a food chain event with high health risks, which affects the competence of several counties, or which has an excellent impact on the territory of Hungary. The bill re-regulates the provisions on the food chain monitoring information system, the so-called FELIR on a number of issues. The aim of the FELIR is to support the registration and control tasks of the food chain supervisor. Customers are able to demonstrate by means of the identifier that they are entitled to carry out activities recorded by the authority. I think it is important to point out that the food chain monitoring authority currently does not have a legal power to make an internet website which offers for sale a counterfeit or unlicensed product, including food, veterinary medicinal product and plant protection product, which is not licensed in Hungary. [[0.00]] Experience has shown that a number of foods are marketed on websites that are sold misleadingly, for example, as a miracle product or as a medicinal product. It is therefore necessary to make these websites inaccessible as the undertaking responsible for marketing the product is generally not known. The bill also includes amendments to the Law on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the Act on the Conduct of Veterinary Services. I would like to point out that, in practice, there is a need for veterinary services to determine the nature of the healthcare provided by each institution. It is appropriate to distinguish between the veterinary practice and the basic veterinary practice and to specify the services that can be provided by these providers. The proposal sets out that the basic care clinics carry out simpler, mainly medical interventions, but not significant surgical interventions. In addition, the proposal facilitates the coordinated work of three large areas of domestic veterinary medicine, as Mr Secretary of State has mentioned, the university training, the public veterinary service and, in particular, the service veterinarians, to assist each other in their professional activities, which also has an impact on food safety and the control of epidemics. The bill further settles the rules for the relationship between the keeper and the veterinary service provider, specifying that a so-called treatment contract will be concluded between the keeper and the veterinary service provider by accepting the application for treatment of the animal. The proposal also regulates in detail the cases of termination of the management contract. Ladies and gentlemen, The Act on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the Veterinary Service Act adopted in 2012 creates a modern and uniform framework for chamber and veterinary activities. The amendments are intended to ensure a more transparent, higher level of professional activity. Quality animal health is also guaranteed by the Chamber's ethics procedure, which has been strengthened by a number of guarantee elements, which enforces the need for the veterinarian to exercise the legal possibilities to carry out his or her profession in accordance with the interests of the public and of the service users. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-254	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's after midnight, and we've had two very long debates. On the one hand, the Parliament held a very long debate on the climate crisis related to the specific legislation. I'm just saying this because what climate is in the country and what food production is, what food safety is, these are obviously related topics. We agreed on a lot of things in this very long debate, and we had a lot of debates. The opposition missed a lot of things about the government's delay. I'm gonna wonder, a little bit back to how that question goes on. And we also had a long debate on the issue of their status as civil servants in the cultural sector. Obviously, this proposal will not, after all, trigger the longest and most intensive debate today. Otherwise, it is not certain that this is good, because it would be possible to dive into this proposal, even if it is now a salad that does not have so many components, so it does not involve so many laws, but it affects basically many areas of the food chain and some agricultural issues in Hungary at all. The question of harmonisation can be supported, as the rapporteur said, most of which are affected by the proposal. There are many such suggestions coming from many areas of life. A significant part of the Parliament's work is about adapting domestic legislation to the rules of the European Union. This is obviously correct, but it is a question of what the content is in the specific case. In both the field of plant health and in the area of animal epidemics, I can say that the proposal can serve most of the time to increase and strengthen food safety in Hungary. I note that this would also be a fundamental story in a country that can produce two and a half times its population with its agricultural economy if it is organised well. We have had countless debates over the past few years that this is well organised and that the basic objectives set out in the Earth Law are in fact served by the individual measures. A good two weeks ago, I recall such a debate, where the aim was to support small family farms at the level of principle, and then, after all, to support large economies indirectly and directly by that legislation. Therefore, the availability of healthy food in an appropriate capacity for all Hungarians in this country can be a common objective, so I think that all of us should support any proposal on food safety and related legal harmonisation in the European Union. It's a good effort. We look forward to it, especially in the middle of the epidemic and during the resulting social and economic crisis, so that the right food is on the table of all Hungarian families. This is a serious task, and we will also have to talk about it in this House, because I think that in the coming weeks there will be very serious problems in the area of food supply. More precisely, not in food supply, but what is on the family table will be a problem, and we will have to talk about it, but it is obviously not directly related to this proposal. Much has been said in terms of dual quality. In recent years, we have read many articles on this issue. I would like to give a firm opinion. No one from our group and the Hungarian Socialist Party would like to see Hungarian consumers consume Europe's trash imported from the West. It's nothing like that. We don't support that. And all investigations carried out for a very good reason which, according to specific parameters, shows that Hungarian consumers must consume any food, detergent or anything in an inadequate quality must be sanctioned, and this must be filtered out, and a clear situation must be created. The legislation identifies the first person to place on the market in Hungary in this respect, and this can be considered to be the right thing to do. However, it has to be said, which is a special situation and not a general one, but, for example, regarding soft drinks, there is a situation in which individual manufacturers are actually planning specific recipes for each country. It is a thin ice, a border area in which wise decisions must be made with a proper legal background. I am not quite sure that the text and the bill are appropriate in this respect. The amendments will also need to be looked at in this respect. This type of company should not be exposed to unreasonable attacks, but it cannot be that Hungarian families receive poor quality food or cleaning products from certain places. That's clear, too. That is why I support, for example, the inaccessibleness of websites that distribute counterfeit or unlicensed products in our country, even if this may be a windmill fight, but this is another issue. It is possible to support the food chain monitoring authority, if there is good reason to do so. With the regulations for the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber, I have thought: there may have been a proper consultation, but we do not know, because there is no reference in the justification of the legislation to whether these have happened, and we have not heard any deeper. We hope that it is, and we hope that it will propose amendments that are eligible for them, and that these proposals have been set up in a common sense. Finally, I would like to refer to two other things that Hungarian Zoltán also referred to. Article 3 The GMO exemption was indeed a consensual story. I hope that the Member makes some kind of amendment in this respect; I think this could be an eligible proposal for the wallet. In connection with Kishantos, the statement made by the Member on organic production as an objective is indeed a smiley, but otherwise a noble goal. Let's hope there's another turn in the mind of the wallet here, but that's not what we've seen before. [[0.10]] To sum up, a large part of the proposal is, of course, eligible for harmonisation objectives. We will look at the amendments and decide on our final position in the light of them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-21-256	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of DK. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no debate between us that all of us need the right quality and, if possible, the right amount of healthy food available to Hungarian citizens, which is affordable. I would add that new aspects are emerging recently when we talk about food, and this is to ensure that it is produced in an environmentally friendly manner, and that it is also the way to reach the customer. I think that on these basic issues, even if we may have a debate on the scale, we agree. I think it is worthwhile to support all legislative proposals and what paragraph I would prefer to support in this way, the purpose of which is to ensure that the quality of this food is indeed one that is fit for human consumption, even beyond that, and that the Hungarian people are given the best possible quality. That's why I took an interest in this bill. I would like to add that this is also important, it is also important to address this issue, but I would also be delighted to address the issues that are coming directly into Hungarian agriculture today as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, and what the Minister is talking about at his press conferences, and what, let us say, Mr Secretary of State spoke about today at the information of the operational tribe, that is to say, what kind of controls there are, how these controls should be stepped up. I am a little bit more stringent in this, the warning is a very important thing, but I do not think that today is exactly the kind of time when you can only get away with fooling the Hungarians in such difficult circumstances. Not in terms of food supply, but in many other respects, Hungarian citizens are in a difficult situation, but it is not certain that everyone has the money to buy the worse quality in the belief that it is otherwise good quality and then throws it away. I think that anyone who is now deceiving Hungarians, who is cheating on food, who is deliberately trying to force or sell bad quality to Hungarian citizens, or from whom these Hungarian citizens are forced to shop, especially in smaller settlements, where only one of these grocery stores is open, must be punished very severely. There is time for this, and there are circumstances where it is very strictly necessary to show what is the attitude that we expect of everyone in terms of quality. Yet, it was important when I saw that it was a matter of food safety and that it was immediately a matter of 2. My fellow Members have already mentioned the problem of the dual quality of food. Several things have been said here. Allow me to begin with a quote on the assessment of this paragraph. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Some Europeans feel that the branded food products they buy are different from those they buy elsewhere and that they may have a lower quality. Therefore, the Commission invited its scientific staff to carry out an objective examination of this. The result shows a mixed picture. I am pleased to note that no evidence has been found that there has been an East-West division of composition, but I am concerned that up to one third of products of the same or similar brand are found to have different compositions. This is what Tibor Navracsics said. This is important because in recent years we have heard a lot about double quality. A comprehensive investigation has indeed been launched in this regard. No one is saying that this is not a problem, but I think that it is not a professional issue, but that it is not worth generating an East-West division from this issue, because it was denied by Tibor Navracsics on the basis of the European Commission's investigation. This was a very important investigation, I add, and I am quite sure that it has contributed to the changes in the European Union and, obviously, to its transposition. At a time like this, it is worth turning to Europe, which we are a little bit, I think. It was an important point that we dealt with this. On the basis of Tibor Navracsics's report, he has to believe only on his own initiative, but it is the European Commission's former Commissioner that, although there are problems, they have to be dealt with, but they are also dealt with on the merits by the European Union. We know that in 2020, Nébih launched another comprehensive investigation in this case, a total of 280 products were investigated. I asked a written question about this, but no reply has yet been received. I don't know, maybe I can get an answer to that. More specifically, when I submitted the question, the answer was that the investigation was still ongoing. I don't know, maybe it's been closed since then. So I think it is right to look at the dual quality of food in domestic and foreign terms, so I would like to say, and I mean not only the West, but also all other countries. However, allow me to draw attention to something very important. We have already learned from the 2018 agricultural economic report that around 60 percent of the Hungarian food industry produces for domestic production, but there is also exports here. I don't think it's important that what works is of the same quality, of the standard. It is also important that food companies producing in Hungary have the same quality of their products, whether they go to the Hungarian market or to the foreign market. I would like to stress that I consider this equally important, because I must say that we are a squeamish people like any people in the East or in the West, so we expect the same quality. I add, and this is very, very important, the solvent demand, and how much people can spend on food, unfortunately, determines what quality they can buy. I support and agree that we should buy Hungarian products as much as possible, but I am disgusted by what the National Chamber of Agriculture has done today. You can ask food shops to talk to them about buying the Hungarian product when there is a crisis. I would add that they should not only sell Hungarian products when there is a crisis, but every time they can produce such quantities. But we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the kind of behaviour that the National Chamber of Agriculture is blackmailing these food chains and saying that after 15 hours, only food will be sold... This is, by the way, a confession in itself that they obviously give these grocery stores a market advantage. It's up to you to decide why you're doing this. However, I think that if they knew, the Hungarian customers would always buy the best, the most expensive quality, whether domestic or foreign. If the Hungarian is of such quality, they will buy Hungarian. But understand that some people, however much they want to buy Hungarian, will not be able to, because it is more expensive and expensive. It's more expensive than import. We've seen it in milk, we've seen it in strawberries, I've seen it myself. That's not a good thing. It is not a good thing, because we would like to buy Hungarian. There must be a way to ensure that the price of the Hungarian product is the same. This requires much action outside the agricultural economy and not within the agricultural economy. I would add that we have already seen steps on this part of the Hungarian government, I think that Gyula Budai was the State Secretary at the time, and the same attitude was also seen in the case of the melon case, and it was perhaps even more hysterical to buy the Hungarian melon, a significant part of which, we know exactly, with public workers from the production of one of our fellow Members sitting here. So the congressman did very well there. One person did not benefit from the story: the Hungarian customer. So I would like to say that it is very important and very important that there should be as many Hungarian products on the market as possible, that it should be of quality, that it should be affordable. I think there's a lot that can be done to this end. But I think that the Chamber of Agriculture should, for example, shout louder when there are 400-day deadlines for rural development programmes and when administration is complicated, and when we talk about quality and price, citizens should be able to buy food. We are talking about a time when people's money is getting less and less, and we have to take note of that. [[0.20]] You have certainly seen that the number of unemployed people in Hungary has risen to over 300,000. This will cause serious problems, and the issue of food quality and security will come up again and again, and it is therefore very important that in these cases, when trying to impose poor quality on Hungarian citizens, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State and the Minister for their help, and then very strongly do so. I think that perhaps one of my fellow Members has already dealt with the FELIR system, let me ask you one question here: will this system really be suitable for the task set out in this paragraph? So you're sure you'll be able to handle all this data? I am only asking this because I have seen a lot of systems in the field of agriculture that have not always worked exactly as they have answered my written question. And that would be very important, because in the world, and this is shown by another paragraph, data transfer on the Internet, Internet connection, tender, these are the most natural things today, and therefore systems that, I think, are really suitable and should be given to these developed systems that are truly capable of storing these data. And then here I would like to address the other problem, which has also been raised by my fellow Members, and this is to make these websites with certain misleading or false content temporarily inaccessible. That's your idea, I think, of a very important point. This highlights a fundamental problem, and I believe that this issue should not be fundamentally regulated at this level. Because this is not the only area where we are faced with this problem. So you can see this not only with food, or with plant protection products or anything like that, you see it in service and in a lot of other areas. So I understand and acknowledge the intention that such websites, I might add, are not just web websites, but they are obviously Facebook pages, and I am not as forgiving as you are temporarily making them unattainable. I think those who try to deceive people in this way must be very strict against them. It is not that something of useless plastic arrives, when you order it, it is that you may be selling a product that is harmful to health, and it has very serious consequences. At the same time, your suggestion highlights, in my view, a general problem that needs to be addressed, and this is usually the settlement of false news and false information in the Internet world. I think that's where your idea fits in. Finally, I would like to raise an area of the 16th. I'm talking about the food police. Unfortunately, I do not have a fellow Member, Mr Font, who always tells me how little I know about agriculture, but now it is finally my time, because I am certainly better at law enforcement than he is! It's very well that you need someone to basically perform this task, the audit task. But really, I don't understand this strange fascination of the current government with all kinds of law enforcement agencies, all kinds of new organs or existing bodies with a new task. Doesn't the bill say that the food police officer is the law of 15-19? It is also given the opportunity to take measures under §8 of the Act: detention, temporary removal, certification, screening of clothing, luggage and vehicles, and detention of vehicles. I'm actually imagining the way this food policeman, who's probably a pious man who's just checking up on me, is gonna fight the chicken on the market. I think that the food police... I don't know if these people are qualified by law enforcement agencies, members of the law enforcement force. I find it infinitely dangerous for us to depreciate this whole area of law enforcement, by the way. I think there's a way to do this. I don't understand exactly why the food police are really gonna be playing police at the end. So if you could give me an answer, Secretary of State, I'd be very grateful. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-258	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I do not see a representative asking for a normal word who would like to speak, so I ask if someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I note that no, no further comments have been made, and the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Robert Zsigó, Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's almost 12:30. I agree with Mr László Varga that the presentation is more important than we have time now, but, if you will allow me, I will only try to answer in such terms, because there is still a point on the agenda after us, which is also the one of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I will try to be in solidarity with the colleague of State Secretary. Just a thought about the National Food Chain Security Agency. When the government set up the Nébihe in 2012, and then in 2013, when the strategy was established, it has been able to do work for the authority, the office, which means that more than 80 percent of the people in Hungary today can identify the authority responsible for food and food safety, and more than 75 percent trust the office. And there is a very important principle, and I would also like to answer Zoltán Magyar, and partly to Mrs Ágnes Vadai: when necessary, the authority will act with very hard tools. Nébih has an organisation called the Directorate of Priority Affairs, which, by the way, carries out 90 percent effectiveness with national powers and investigative powers, and in all cases, whether it is a case of plant health, animal health or food counterfeiting, in which action must take place, with very tough penalties and very hard action. In addition, of course, the other principle of Nébih is that it considers all decent businesses to be its partners, and we are trying to help businesses to carry out their tasks with appropriate law-abiding behaviour. It also protects honest entrepreneurs from dishonest entrepreneurs. The other topic, which may have come up with everyone, is a dual food quality issue. By the way, I agree with many of you that we have reached consensus on this issue every single time in the last year, and I hope that this will also happen in the subsequent period. The story is that the Hungarian authorities and the Central European authorities have conducted an investigation, and it has proved that in many cases products of different quality and composition have been placed on the Hungarian or Central European market than on the Western European market. The V4 also stood together in the agricultural forums, the European Commission, and as a result the European Commission has recognised that there is such a problem. As Congresswoman said, an investigation has begun with the coordination of the European Commission's research institute. I can inform you that this investigation is, by the way, a national investigation, so that not only the Nebih will be investigated, but all the Member States concerned, and when the result is obtained, we will definitely make this public. We agree that this should be done in areas where it is really important, and I agree with it, and because this is a Commission study in Member States that all Member States and all food manufacturers should pay attention to this. [[0.30]] The development of laboratories has been mentioned by MEP Zoltán Magyar; I may also be responding a little to food police. Of course, we must do everything possible to have the right technical background for the Nebih, because those who fish in confusion, if you can put it that way, are very resourceful, in quotes, because the second best business in the world is food counterfeiting, if you can put it that way. Nébih is constantly developing its laboratory network, and this is also a legal obligation, because 10 percent of the food chain monitoring fee, the food chain monitoring fee that comes in every year, has to be used by the agency for mandatory improvements, and a very large part of this amount goes to laboratory development every year, just in order to compete with food counterfeiters. I was talking about double quality. The case of websites, the issue of blocking websites: here, if I remember correctly, Congressman Varga called it a windmill fight. Indeed, an important question. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I understand what you said, Congresswoman, but we can only be called into account that this is included in the Food Chain Surveillance Act. However, I must add that the Hungarian government, since internet shopping has evolved in recent years, regardless of the current pandemic, is trying to establish legislation in all areas that can detect this type of unfair entrepreneurial behaviour not only in the food chain; but this is now the subject of this law. Food police: this office wasn't just established. Colleagues of the Directorate for Priority Affairs, mentioned as having national competence, received a licence a year and a half ago. The present proposal is only about trying to clarify those laws on the basis of the experience we have so far, and we are, by the way, harmonising them with law enforcement, and I would not like to understand them better than the Member, and we are harmonising them so that they can make a proper use of it. I'll keep it quietly, a little funny, Congresswoman said they should fight chickens. No, in the food chain area, it's serious enough, how can I say, I can't say anything at this time of the hour but that there are food forgeries in confusion, and they really need to be able to compete with them at least until the police arrive at their assistance. I would also like to clarify the matter of the FELIR system to the Member. The FELIR system has been working for a long time. The answer to your question is yes, it is capable of identifying all actors in the food chain. I'll give you an example. In the current situation, the Ministry of Agriculture launched, precisely on the website of Nébih, a production search site, where small producers, farmers can register, they must also provide their FELIR ID, and those who are looking for you on this site, the small producers, so those who would like to buy, we directly linked a FELIR search site to this, so that everyone, even you, can identify if you go up, that the person who has registered there actually has an FELIR ID, is in the system, and has actually provided the information that he is engaged in. So the system works. By the way, in this draft law, we are talking specifically about cutting red tape, so that the amendment of the data can be done by the office itself. The answer to your written question will be given as soon as the investigation is complete. The investigation on double quality has not yet been completed, we have not been able to achieve a result. In the case of double quality, this bill, to be here at the end, only contains the transposition of the directive adopted by the European Parliament into domestic law. The European Parliament accepted this at some point last spring, and at that time it stated that within two years each Member State should incorporate it in its own legal order. That's what we do in this bill anyway. Thank you very much for your support and your comments. Of course, we look forward to the amendments and, where we can, we will try to reach a compromise, and I ask you to support the adoption of the law by your votes. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/10099. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The norm before you, the 1995 LIII on the general rules for protecting the environment. Law, which is also called the Environmental Law, and the Law on the Protection of Nature 1996, one year later, is also LIII. The purpose of the bill amending the law is the technical and minor amendment of the two laws, partly because of the decision of the Constitutional Court and partly because of the experience resulting from the application of the law. The proposal is the first in a series of technical clarifications to ensure consistency between the Government Regulation on certain rules for protection against environmental and environmental noise and vibration. According to the government's decision, since 2017, the production of a municipal strategic noise map has been carried out by the central body designated for this task, and the environmental law has become necessary to clarify. The National Climate Protection Authority should have access to the data of the national environmental information system in order to carry out its duties. In view of this, the environmental law is added to a new paragraph which provides access. The environmental and nature protection authority shall, in accordance with the two laws referred to above, issue a declaration of competence within 15 days of an emergency request. However, the institution of the emergency request did not substantially shorten the procedure, but the obligation to state reasons imposed an additional administrative burden on the authority. The proposal deletes this provision, thereby facilitating the work of the acting environmental authority, of course in such a way that neither the client nor the environment is harmed. It is also an important change that the proposal meets the needs of the information society and leads to the possibility of outdated paper reporting from the national environmental information system. In preparation for this, OKIR was renewed with government development from 1 January 2020 with the name OKIRkapu. The amendment does not increase the burden on environmental users, but at the same time means administrative burden reduction for environmental authorities. In addition to what has been said, the proposal aims at reviewing certain procedural rules in the interests of legal certainty. Experience with the application of public law shows that, in order to ensure uniform interpretation of the law, it is appropriate to clarify that the term "supplied' refers to an alternative or a combined condition in certain provisions. As an example, I would like to mention the case of the withdrawal of an environmental permit. The authorisation shall be withdrawn by the authority if the activity has not been started within five years of becoming final, or if the holder declares that he does not wish to use the licence. During the practical application of the provision, the authorities have withdrawn the authorisation even after the expiry of the five-year period only if the client has declared that he no longer intends to use the licence. However, the practice applied is contrary to the intention of the legislator, and the withdrawal of the licence is necessary even if the two conditions exist separately. In order to ensure uniform application of the law, these legal bases are clarified in the proposal. The Constitutional Court 4/2019. It stated in its decision No.3 that the legislation in force does not require the administrative authority acting to make an explicit finding in the operative part of its decision on the impact of the case on environmental and nature protection. [[0.40]] Bearing in mind the healthy environment, the fair administration procedure and the right to appeal, the amendment complements the two aforementioned laws with a provision on the basis of which the facts of the examination of the issue, the outcome of the examination and the specific requirements are established in the operative part of the decision of the authority. The amendment of the law, drawn up on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court, therefore strengthens the existing environmental legal guarantees in the environmental and nature protection laws and promotes uniform application of the law. One of the most important elements of the package of amendments is the authorisation of the government to establish the main tasks relating to remediation in a regulation. In some cases, the environmental law currently gives the government the task of either not laying down the detailed rules for carrying out the tasks or not authorising them to do so. The amendment will allow for a rational simplification of remediation procedures and the establishment of rules for the development of brownfield areas, thus facilitating the exploitation of these under-used areas. With the new authorisation provision, the Government establishes in a regulation the tasks relating to the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme and the remediation of areas under State responsibility, as well as detailed rules on the exploitation of brownfield areas, including the arrangements for reporting and registering in brownfield areas. The mandate also provides for the possibility of establishing specific procedural rules for State involvement in remedial tasks, including facilitating the feasibility of public investment in brownfield areas and simplifying remediation. In many cases, remediation can be done together with construction and investment works, which are not mutually exclusive, and even parallel implementation can reduce costs. Most of the brownfield areas are not contaminated. Where contamination is suspected, the remediation procedure should, of course, be carried out, but it is important for the national economy to ensure that brownfield areas without harmful contamination to health and the environment can be developed as efficiently as possible, as these degraded areas can once again be channeled into the circulation of the settlements. If I have to highlight the other key point in the proposal in addition to remediation, then it is clear that the ban on incineration of avar and garden waste will be introduced. As you may know, my fellow Members, the open-air burning of avar and garden waste involves air pollution, one of the key sources of small particle pollution. Perhaps fewer people already know the extent to which this can be. Measurement tests have shown that 50 kilograms, so burning an average pile of avar can seriously contaminate the air of an entire settlement. Under the proposal, the general ban under the Government Decree on the protection of air will become national once the mandate to regulate municipal waste incineration and garden waste is removed. The proposed amendment serves to improve air quality, but also reduces the public's health risk from air load as at least such an important effect. In the opinion of the World Health Organization and other professional organisations, contaminated air can exacerbate the consequences of the current coronal virus epidemic. On the one hand, the organism weakened by air pollution is less resistant to infection, even if someone is exposed to high air pollution for a relatively short period of time, and on the other hand, viruses on the surface of air pollutants are stuck and can remain contagious for hours. With regard to the prohibition of avar and garden waste incineration, it should be stressed that, in principle, this is currently prohibited. At present, municipalities have the possibility to grant exemptions, but the justification for this exemption only existed until selective waste collection was introduced. This is mandatory in Hungary since 2015. At present, a large part of the municipalities are banning the incineration of avar and garden waste in a regulation in addition to the regular collection and transport of green waste, but there is still limited time available for this environmental hazard activity in many municipalities. The government welcomes the fact that, given the current epidemiological situation, the ban on the incineration of avar and garden waste has already been introduced by many municipalities, but in the current emergency situation it is of the utmost importance that municipalities act responsibly and act as soon as possible to prevent the incineration of avar and garden waste in their territory in order to protect the health of their inhabitants. According to the proposal, the legal deadline for this is 1 January 2021, but it is expected that, after the adoption of the law, it will be possible to amend this before that date. With regard to the last amendment to the proposal, I believe that I agree with my fellow Members that anyone wishing to receive a permit to hold a protected plant or animal must always comply fully with the rules in the fields of environmental protection, nature conservation and animal protection. I would ask this House to support the proposals and the provisions of the law with their comments and then to adopt them during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-21-262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the end of the day, we couldn't even start a primary school class, there were so many of us left on the last agenda. We have a long day behind us, but protecting and preserving our environment and nature is a prerequisite. The wildlife has been raised several times this time in terms of human health and quality of life. Natural areas and values are an irreplaceable part of national wealth, and therefore it is our duty to protect natural heritage and biodiversity. We must treat our natural resources in a cost-effective and reasonable way, without which harmony between human activity and nature cannot be maintained. Failure can have serious consequences, endanger the health of these generations, the existence of future generations and the survival of many species. I believe that the proposal is extremely important for the protection of the environment and nature, since the amendments call for a transparent and precise structure. The submission contains the Environmental Act 48/E. § 2 creates amendments to its provisions on noise maps and the consistency between the environmental law and the government decree on certain environmental noise and vibration protection legislation. Thanks to this proposal, the method of reporting OKIR is renewed. Currently, natural persons are not obliged to provide environmental data by electronic means. In the last three years, however, no paper-based data was provided by natural persons on the basis of data from environmental authorities, as the annual data provider of nearly 300-400 natural persons uses the electronic reporting in OKIR. The amendment does not increase the burden on environmental users, but at the same time represents a small administrative burden reduction for environmental authorities. The amendment also states that the 2012 CCXVII on the participation of the National Climate Protection Authority in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the Effort Sharing Decision. In order to carry out its statutory tasks, it is necessary to have access to the data of the national environmental information system. [[0.50]] The submission complements the environmental and nature protection laws with a provision whereby the authority must indicate in the operative part of the decision the fact that the question is being examined, the result of the examination and the specific requirements taken on the basis thereof. The justification part of the decision shall include the findings made in the examination of the technical question. The amendment of the law prepared on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court strengthens the environmental legal guarantees already existing in part in the environmental law and in the Nature Conservation Act and promotes uniform application of the law. According to the environmental law, the environmental and nature protection authority must issue a technical statement within 15 days of an emergency request. Thanks to the proposal, this provision will be deleted, as the institution of the emergency request does not substantially shorten the procedure, but the obligation to state reasons imposes an additional administrative burden on the authority. The amendment adds a new authorisation clause under which the Government lays down a regulation on the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme and on the remediation of areas under State responsibility, as well as detailed rules on the exploitation of brownfield areas, including the order of reporting and record-keeping in these areas, thereby facilitating the exploitation of these under-used areas for economic purposes. The further purpose of the submission is to review each procedural rule concerning the withdrawal of an environmental permit or a single permit for use in the environment. In practice, the provisions are applied by the authorities to withdraw the authorisation even if the five-year period expires only if the client has declared that he no longer intends to use the licence, but this is contrary to the intention of the legislator, so that in the event of the expiry of the five-year period, it is necessary to withdraw the authorisation in the absence of the client's statement. In order to ensure consistency with Directive 2014/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2011/92/EU on the application of the agreement and on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, it is appropriate to clarify the environmental law. Article 7 of the proposal is replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) and (11) Paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article is of particular importance from an environmental point of view. In addition to residential heating, open-air burning of avar and garden waste plays a key role in the development of air quality. At present, the majority of municipalities ban the incineration of avar and garden waste in a regulation in addition to the regular collection and transport of green waste, but there is still a limited time limit in a number of municipalities, but there is scope for this activity that endangers the environment. Open-air combustion of all biomass, such as avar and garden waste, is associated with serious air pollution, small particles, 10 microns of dust and 2,5 microns of dust being one of the major sources of pollution in terms of local air quality. Several measurement tests show that burning about 50 kilograms of avar could contaminate the air of an entire small settlement. The proposed amendment serves to improve air quality, but also reduces the public's health risk from air load as an additional impact. The provision is therefore in line with the climate and nature conservation action plan announced by the Government in February and reinforces the concrete actions undertaken by the Government. Not least, the proposal regulates that for three years, protected species of animal and plant species, maintenance permits may not be granted to persons who have been legally held liable or fined for nature conservation or animal protection infringements. The regulation is too strict to prevent the extension of maintenance permits for otherwise legally kept individuals. On the basis of the amendment, the sanction does not cover the examination of applications for legal persons and their successors. The amendment of the Nature Conservation Act sets out a more favourable rule for citizens, leads to administrative burden reduction and meets the requirement that sanctions should be proportionate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this proposal in the light of the above. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, the lead speaker of Jobbik is coming. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Welcome to this late hour. I don't want to drag this last item on today's agenda much longer, so I'm trying to be quick. We see that this proposal actually includes technical amendments, harmonisation of laws, and digitalisation, which I am pleased to say. I hope that the conditions are also given for this digitalisation, and that the exception of paper submissions will not cause problems in the future. However, I have a few questions about this proposal: firstly, where environmental noise assessment and management will go, so who will actually have control over it, or who will be assigned to it by the Ministry. It is a good thing that the NKH will have access to the OKIR system, and I consider this to be a step forward in any way, but otherwise, in relation to brownfield investments, it is a very important issue regarding remediation, because there are a lot of old industrial areas, and I also come from such a constituency, which is more of an industrial district, and we should have asbestos removal along the Danube for a long, long time. So I'm really sorry that this proposal or this improvement package didn't work, say, ten years earlier. I'm going to admit this to the sudden green light that the governing parties bought, but I mentioned once today that I'm happy for this green light. Obviously, it could be a little stronger, but we will try to help with amendments. And avar burning, I think, is also a very good idea that it will finally be banned. Another question is who will check this, or how the municipalities will control it, who might impose penalties on it, and how else they will try to ensure that instead of burning avar, they will be able to solve composting, and the population will be able to solve it. We see that there are examples of this abroad, otherwise it doesn't have to go far, it is collected in sacks in Austria, in bags specifically for composting, and later it is used, and for those who have released such materials, it is returned in the form of flower soil. So I would like answers to these questions here in the debate. Otherwise, we are expected to support this proposal as it stands, but I would still like to have some answers. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-21-266	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász is the lead speaker of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I will be very brief, because both Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member have very detailed the bill. Obviously, on the one hand, we need to talk about technical and substantive amendments. The bill contains a technical amendment to noise maps, essentially the Kvt. and achieves consistency between the Government regulation on certain rules for environmental noise and vibration protection. Since local authorities no longer have the task of creating a noise map, this turn is being taken out of the text of the legislation. It has also been mentioned by the Secretary of State, but I would also like to point out that the new environmental reporting system for the electronic administration system of government agencies, the amendment to the national environmental information system, will be available to environmental users from 1 January 2020 with the improvement of the so-called OKIRkapu. [[1.00]] The Secretary of State also presented the provisions of Article 4/2019. a decision of the Constitutional Court. In addition, I think it is important to emphasise that the current KVt is in place. it does not clearly provide for the principles of decision-making and the procedural framework in which State-owned remedial interventions are implemented. All of this hinders the work of the active environmental authorities and the implementation of the tasks of the national environmental remediation programme. On the basis of the proposed amendment, the Government is authorised to lay down in a regulation the tasks of the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme relating to the remediation of areas under public responsibility and detailed rules on the exploitation of brownfield areas. It has also been said, but it is important to point out that, under the bill, the Ktv will expire. 48. Paragraph 4 (b), which provides for the powers of the body of representatives of the local government to lay down rules for the incineration of avar and garden waste in a regulation. The removal of the authorisation to regulate municipal waste incineration of avar and garden waste will make the combustion of avar and garden waste common to 306/2010 on the protection of air. a prohibition under a government regulation. The proposed amendment is intended to improve air quality and thus protect public health. It is worth highlighting the need to ensure adequate preparation time: the legislative proposal sets out the date of entry into force of the provision on 1 January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment to the environmental law is in line with the government's climate and nature conservation action plan announced in February. These provisions further strengthen the set of concrete actions to which the government has committed itself, and I therefore ask for the support of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-268	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is the lead speaker of the MSZP.
u2020-04-21-269	Thank you very much. I didn't think at 9 a.m. that I would really speak on Earth's Day, but then at least a tiny look out was celebrated for the first time in 1970, today 175 countries, Hungary, have been celebrating since 1990, and otherwise the Earth's Day movement has a slogan:. Who said that you couldn't change the world? Well, I think that's a bit typical of us, because the corona virus has now put the world on new challenges, and I have to say that it has also warned me very clearly that we might have to do certain things quite differently. Well, we have mixed feelings about the amendment of the draft law on general rules for the protection of the environment. On the one hand, it is to be welcomed that the Government will finally remedy the failure of a Constitutional Court decision. True, 10 months later than the scheduled deadline, but it's better late than never. I'm just saying, in parentheses, believe me, that disabled people would be happy to have their shortcomings corrected in the same way. Several people have spoken about it, and I can confirm that it was extremely important that the national ban on domestic avar burning took place, and we agree with it; we have been pushing for this along with the green organisations for a long time. To tell you the truth, we don't even understand why it took so long to wait. Since the transport of green waste is part of the mandatory municipal public service, it is entirely unjustified for some to smoke entire settlements. Another issue is that the missteps of the Orbán government have made the removal of waste impossible in many settlements. And the service providers you put in a difficult situation are saving where they can, for example, on the removal of separate collected waste or, unfortunately, on any selection. But there is no debate between us that the right solution is not to smoke out citizens' neighbors. Of course, any restriction is only worth what it is being observed, and we can only hope that this provision will not remain on the paper and will be accompanied by consistent state control. At the same time, it is a sad part of the bill that there was also an opportunity to reduce the powers of the local government. So far, in the settlements affected by heavy noise, it has been a municipal task to create noise measurement and noise maps that underpin the measures. This will now be a state task to be carried out on the basis of a separate ministerial appointment, which is a significant step backwards. Think about it: so far, residents suffering from the noise effects of Liszt Ferenc Airport have been confident that district authorities will be partners in their complaints. From now on, however, we can only pray that the government bureaucrats are willing to listen to their comments and act in their behalf. We do not really understand why the government has taken this responsibility away from local authorities that are much more familiar with local relations and tend to engage in bilateral dialogue. A similar effort can be seen in the legislative proposal to refer environmental and nature conservation issues to the public domain. Here too, in the end, the government agencies will make political decisions on matters where professional aspects should prevail, but if you disagree, Secretary of State, I welcome it. We regret that the local government will be cut on this issue as well. If there is, by the way, a concrete and meaningful explanation for this, then I would ask you to share it with us, because it is absolutely important for us to be able to support the proposal and to be able to answer these questions. Thank you all very much for still being here. Especially to colleagues who have been here for, like, two or eight hours in this House. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-04-21-270	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Speaking as Members of the Council asking for a normal word, we can hear Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK. Here you go.
u2020-04-21-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very, very brief. Of course, we believe that decisions must be made there, which is closest to the people, but at the same time we support any state, government action that goes towards environmental protection. This is particularly positive in the light of the fact that Parliament's sittings have not been abundant in recent years with such proposals. I am also pleased with the fact that there is a national ban on burning waste from Avar and Gardens, as we understand it, from 1 January 2021. The question is, because there is already a punishment, police and other task that will obviously have to be dealt with in a way that will be resolved. [[1.10]] We think it might be a first step in this area. And I understand that the government has accepted any action plan, but that's not the point. The point is that, after 1 January 2021, we will be able to implement these, because we have seen a lot of action plans in the past, but there has not been much progress. We also welcome the fact that, at last, ten months is about ten months, since the Constitutional Court granted a deadline until 30 June 2019, which you have not taken very much into account, but at least fulfilled this condition, and settle the case of fundamental infringement or constitutional infringement in relation to environmental issues or administrative procedures established by the Constitutional Court. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if law enforcement issues or penalties are settled at point 1 as they have dealt with the decision of the Constitutional Court, then we will come back to Parliament and we will argue. The Constitutional Court, which certainly did not come together according to my taste, but, according to yours, your colleagues are sitting in it, perhaps even had lawyers and members of the factions, should be respected by you. I think it is very important that you deal with this issue, because the issue of environmental protection is extremely important for the future generation. Congresswoman Gurmai has indicated that it is late or premature, however we may call it, but it must nevertheless be pointed out that there is a generation on which we cannot forget, and for which there is also a decision by the Constitutional Court voted by you. So I would be terribly happy if the Secretary of State played an intermediary role on this occasion, and the next time he would suggest at a government meeting that if the constitutional court problem was resolved here, we would not see a reason why this could not be resolved in the case of disabled pensioners. Obviously, the questions that my fellow Members have asked and which I have asked will be answered in some way. After a very few ten years of governance, the promise would require very concrete answers in this case to support this bill, while, once again, I would like to add, the Democratic Coalition supports basically any paragraph, any change that serves the health, well-being of Hungarian citizens, such as the purity of the Hungarian air in this respect, and will take us further on the path that the type of procedure that started with Hungary because of the quality of air can be eliminated. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-21-272	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No one has applied for two minutes or any other form of opposition, but it is my duty to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] Thank you very much, as I don't. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Here you go.
u2020-04-21-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Now I do not want to refer to it, but yet I refer to the fact that it is a late hour, and we are really already over the first hour of the next day, but nevertheless I would like to thank my fellow Members for their suggestions, thoughts, and questions, as well as statements of support from my fellow Members. The questions that you have raised here in a significant part, in this law, can already be read or discussed in the detailed explanation, I would therefore like to recommend this to your kind attention. And if there are still questions on which you would like to have an accurate answer and not only an accurate answer, but a proposal for a solution, then my request is to make use of this possibility, even because, as Mrs Vada said, such a law does not really occur within the framework of Parliament. I believe that this is not the first, I very much hope that, in the long term, it will not be the last, but more similar laws, which will be about noise pollution and air load from climate protection to environmental protection. We know that these are all issues that affect all of us, our health, our future. That is why I ask you to make these proposals during the in-depth debate at committee meetings, and I am sure you will, and if they are of a nature that can be built up with the law, and I have great confidence in them, we will live with them. Thank you very much. I need your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-21-274	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It's 1:13. I would like to inform you that all our fellow Members who have previously applied for a post- Agenda address have withdrawn from this intention, and we welcome this. We say good night to all of you. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. on Monday. I'll close the meeting with this. Goodbye, everyone.
