u2020-05-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 27th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and the notaries of Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will start our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which we will have a two-hour session of immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's session with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of Mr.Sándor Burány, Dialogue Group on Current Issues. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, At the time of the outbreak, we knew exactly that there would be a double task ahead of us. The primary objective is, of course, to protect the health and life of people. But at the same time, there is another very important goal: to protect and preserve the work, the existence, the income, the standard of living of people. Now that we may be over the hardest, we can conclude that the first goal seems to be achieved, that, like other countries in Eastern Europe, there is no mass infection in Hungary; it is true that if we compare the number of people who have been infected with the number of people who have died, we cannot be proud of this data at all. Nor can we be proud of the fact that hospitals have been at the forefront of spreading infections and have not been sufficiently helped in their work, because if the necessary protective equipment had been available from the start, if they had tested and filtered the virus from the start, the people who worked in the hospital and the patients who came out of it could have been more effective in this fight. But as I mentioned earlier, we can also be aware from the outset that this epidemic will also be a serious blow to jobs. We have been talking for weeks about the fact that unemployment is expected to jump in Hungary. All kinds of analyses, assumptions, expert estimates were available earlier, unfortunately the recently published KSH data confirmed the pessimistic expectations. In a preliminary graph, KSH itself admitted that unemployment had brutally increased in April, and that the number of unemployed people, according to the official data of KSH, had approached 430,000 people. So it can be said that well over 400,000 people do not have jobs in Hungary, and it can also be added that many tens of thousands have lost their jobs because of the epidemic, and not because of some other disaster or other state of the economy. That is why we have asked the government over the last few weeks to devote much more effort and resources to protecting jobs and helping people in distress. Although we have not been lacking in government reports, we are unfortunately following Europe in terms of the scale of the measures. We are after Europe with public support for protecting jobs, protecting jobs, and I must add that, unfortunately, Europe is one of the worst if it is not one of the worst unemployed systems facing those who have lost their jobs in these weeks and months. In Hungary, job-seekers' unemployment benefits are due for three months on paper, but this is practically an upper limit, since many part-time, grey or black people are not able to use this at all, let alone qualify for nine months of job-seeking benefits that were previously typical of the Orbán government. Although the Prime Minister himself said that everyone will have a job here in three months, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán declared it in Parliament, but the government's own figures deny it. Even next year, the so-called convergence programme, which contains government's own figures, is facing serious unemployment, and it is not the case that in three months' time people will have jobs either in the market or through state aid. Not to mention that it is increasingly apparent that state aid is a public service programme, a 2.0 version of it, and we know precisely that the public service programme in Hungary is capable of creating employment on paper, but it is not suitable for people to make a living on this income. To sum up, we continue to ask the government to devote serious support to the protection of jobs to a large part of Europe's countries, not to save some companies, but to save most of the jobs, and to provide unemployment benefits to those who have lost their jobs because of the epidemic, a job-seeking allowance that they can not only earn their jobs, but also survive this difficult period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-25-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-25-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the coronal virus epidemic has faced unprecedented challenges for the world, including Europe as a whole. We are pleased to report that Hungary has taken the necessary steps to protect human life and health at an early stage. In the effectiveness of the defence, we can now see that Hungary has surpassed other countries in a better financial situation. It was also a pleasure to see that almost everyone joined forces and helped each other in trouble, except for the left, which pulled itself out of a common defense. I am pleased that you have acknowledged the success of the defense today, and we hope that you will complement this with an apology. [[Sándor Burány intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman! Speaking of health care, let us not forget that when you were a Member of Parliament under socialist governments, left-wing governments abolished every eighth working bed in hospitals. Forints 650 billion were lost from health care and thousands of doctors and 6,000 medical workers were dismissed. Think about what would have happened in this country if the left had continued to run after 2010 called government, which he did in health care! Well, then, we wouldn't have had a chance to fight the plague today. That's your personal responsibility, which is why I'd like to make a second apology. [[Sándor Burány: Why, Mr. Secretary?]] Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that, in parallel with the life protection measures, we started to work immediately to contain the economic difficulties caused by the virus and to protect the jobs of Hungarian people. The government launched the largest economic protection action plan in the history of Hungary, which shifts nearly 20 percent of GDP to economic protection, job protection and job creation, and this is also outstanding in European comparison. Honourable Congressman, The government continues to work to protect as many jobs as possible and create as many new jobs as the epidemic has destroyed. To this end, the government has decided on a number of economic protection measures, including job protection wage subsidies, to which over nine thousand and 9047 companies have submitted applications and we can help 119,914 people until the present moment. [[11.10]] Honourable Congressman, This is further complemented by the R &amp; D and innovation programme, which includes 10 039 highly qualified engineers, researchers and IT experts, which is supported by this measure of the national government. Honourable Congressman, In addition, significant improvements of the 100 billion-dollar magnitude contribute to the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are also about job protection, labour force retention and the creation of new jobs. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that we have set up a pay support programme for job creation, with the help of which we can provide support and assistance to 70,000 job seekers so that they can do work on the market that they can be proud of. Honourable Congressman, Let me also point out, finally, that we know your proposals, we know the proposals on aid, or, as you call it, on basic income. These proposals would lead to bankruptcy in Hungary. We have seen clearly that these proposals have not worked before. Honourable Congressman, If we look at your program, the dialogue program, we can see exactly what it means and where it would cover these costs. You would increase the tax burden on Hungarian families, abolish their discounts, increase taxes, increase personal income tax, corporate tax, excise duty, introduce new forms of tax, such as property tax and inheritance tax. Yes, you wrote that you want to tax even death in Hungary. Mr. Congressman, You think you're progressive, but you're still just a net communist. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In 2011, Viktor Orbán said that a work-based social system will be needed in Europe instead of welfare states. I think there is consensus in this House that this sentence is the foundation of the Orbán social policy, which is the philosophical basis of the last ten years. I also think that there is reason to agree that the epidemic situation has shown that the people who are doing the caring work for the state are very important, we can rely primarily on them in a crisis situation, and I think it is important to thank them again for the work they have done in recent months. At the same time, thanks and appreciation alone are not enough. These people, who do the caring work, are the least well-paid people, the worst-paid people in Hungary today. In the beginning, it says a lot about the policy of the Orbán government that the state is one of the worst employers. This is especially the case for those we have now had to rely on, whose heroic work has resulted in Hungary being able to survive this epidemic somewhat. The fact is that the basis of the work-based society would be that those who do work will receive a decent salary for it, yet in your work-based society the reality in Hungary today is that a social worker who is facing a pension earns HUF 168 thousand net. As long as there are such standards of payment in the social sector, it is difficult to talk about a work-based society, because these people are not asking for aid, as we have heard from the previous speech, but quality wages for the quality of the work they are doing. The fact is, at the same time, it is not always equal in respect. We've all seen the Prime Minister's video, which is in front of every YouTube video, his commercial where he thanks, quite rightly, everyone for the work he has done in the epidemic situation; he thanks shopkeepers, health workers, everyone. Those who are not even mentioned by the Prime Minister at word level are those in the social sector, those who have been left out of even the HUF 500,000 single wage supplement because of the government's incomprehensible policy. They do work, the basis of the work-based society would be to receive the 500 thousand forints for the extra work they have done. It's not a benefit, these people have been exposed to the epidemic for 0-24 hours in nursing homes, child protection, homelessness, and they deserve this one-time HUF 500,000. That is why LMP has launched a petition, which can be signed on beremelest.hu, so that as many as thousands of people can indicate that these everyday heroes do deserve this one-time payment of HUF 500,000. The fact is, the social sector is not an important part of your world. They talk about it when political attacks can be launched, but they don't talk about it when the norm should be increased, they don't talk about it when it comes to the fact that in Hungary a person has to line up for two or three years to be able to submit his family with dementia to the nursing home, they don't talk about how much a Hungarian person who works in child protection is earning today. The fact is that the basic condition of a work-based society is to pay people working for the state to have respect for their work. At present, who takes care of the parent of the dementia at home and works in his own home for 0-24 hours, he receives 58 thousand forints. In your work-based society, the person who does this loving and important work gets 58 thousand forints. It is not about aid, but it is about paying for this work, as my fellow Member Mátrai has already submitted it to Parliament in 2004. In contrast, you have agreed to this, since then it has been voted out twice. The fact is that there are two crises in the world today that stem from the same crisis that has something to do with each other, the ecological crisis and the social crisis. We, the Greens, are of the opinion that the social crisis can be reduced by increasing the redistribution, and people who do work for the state can finally make a decent living if they do not earn HUF 168 thousand by a social worker, and they will not make HUF 158 thousand by a medical pedagogical assistant. The fact is that the shame of a work-based society is that people working for the state today cannot live a decent life in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2020-05-25-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have done so many times here in Parliament, but, as you have said, this is worth doing every time, to thank people who work not in hospitals or in law enforcement, but in social institutions. For we have seen in many countries of Europe and the world that nursing homes, where you are often sick, are already caring for people spiritually or physically, day after day, week after week, can become particularly focal points of infection. The work of the people and carers here has also helped to make Hungary one of the most effective defense countries, since in Hungary the number of people who died in a coronal virus per million inhabitants is half as many as in Germany, seven times as in Sweden, if you mentioned the welfare model, or sixteen times as in Belgium. In order to achieve this result, it was also necessary for those working in the social sphere to do their hard work, which we thank them symbolically and financially, because this year we are going to do a 14 percent wage increase. So when it is the year of crisis, we are not reducing the wages of social workers, but we are raising the wages of social workers by 14 percent, so overall we can talk about a 115 percent increase in the last few years, in recent cycles. This has not always been the case, and you know it, Mr honourable Member, because when the previous crisis occurred, your political allies decided to take away a month's wages from those working in the social sphere. There's still a few of the people around you who canceled a month's pay. Sitting here: Lajos Korózs, István Hiller, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, and Sándor Burány are no longer here, but Gy. Erzsébet Németh, Ildikó Lendvai, Csaba Molnár or István Ujhelyi also voted that in the time of the crisis, the people in the social sphere who needed extra help had been taken away from them, because obviously the burden of the social sphere was much greater in times of crisis. And so they smiled, honourable Member, here and a year and a half ago, when the government submitted a proposal and Parliament voted that we would much better estimate the home care you mentioned with a 30% general increase and the introduction of a child care fee, which is a multiple of the previous amount. Thus, overall, we have raised the budget for home care from HUF 15 billion to HUF 55 billion in a decade, but you have not voted for this. When the wages of social workers had to be reduced ten years ago, they voted for the need to increase the home care fee here in Parliament, a year and a half ago, they did not vote for it. Those were words, honourable Member, what you said, and these are facts about Parliament's decisions, that when it was a critical situation, social workers could not count on you. [[11.20]] But this is no different in the municipalities you run, especially in the Metropolitan Government. After you attacked Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital that the hospital would cause such a mass of illness in the home of the elderly on the capital city of Pesti Road, terrible facts have come to light, honourable Member. One hundred patients were selected, who were transported from the nursing home on Pesti Road to Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, of course, to patients with coronary virus, and the following data were published: there was a moderate dehydration of 28 percent of the patients who were admitted, 69 percent dehydration, so some dehydration occurred in 97 percent of the patients. What kind of care takes place in the capitalized institution if 97 percent of the patients who have been brought in are suffering from dehydration? Due to malnutrition, 27 percent of the patients were bone thin and 61 percent of the patients had exhausted energy levels. 88 percent had malnutrition problems! How does the Metropolitan Municipality maintain the home of the elderly on Pesti Road, how does it provide for the elderly, how does it want to prevent the spread of the epidemic by strengthening their immune system, when there are dehydration and malnutrition problems due to poorly organised care, while the capital receives 6 billion forints of state support for the maintenance of these institutions? Then there was a two-tenth or larger bed-up of 16 percent of the patients who were brought in, and 28 percent of the patients had onset beds. That's 44 percent total. Almost every second patient had trouble getting up. But in the same way, there was a narrowing of the joint movement of nearly half the people who were brought in, and I can still list these data, honourable Member. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that in the elderly homes in the capital where only 7 percent of all elderly caregivers have more than half of the infections, and nearly three quarters of the deceased have unfortunately been cared for by an elderly home in the capital. So when he talks about the need to better appreciate the elderly and those taking care of the elderly, perhaps he could speak with Gergely Christmas about how he should have paid more attention to those working in the nursing home on Pest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Representative László Varju, DK:. Overheated economy, low productivity, destructive corruption applied for a pre-meeting speech? another warning from Brussels. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-25-9	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, For the time being, there are only signs of the draft budget for 2021, but they are becoming increasingly pessimistic, even in your opinion, as the poor and expensive health emergency is causing the economic crisis to unfold. Because if they had tested me anyway, they would have known much sooner that the virus wasn't the strongest here, because Hungarian citizens are careful and they're not taking the child to school, even if that's what you want. If they had tested me, we wouldn't have had to forcelessly evacuate the hospitals. If they had tested, fewer people would have lost their jobs and there would be no 430 000 unemployment and the threatening social crisis. The situational advantage of the Hungarians, the family silver, has been squandered by you. You guys are acting like you used to be. People's health, children's education, all of our lives, wanted to create a fiscal balance, while robbing the country unscrupulously. Do not be surprised, then, if the Democratic Coalition proposes to the European Commission to grant support only to Member States that join the European Public Prosecutor's Office and accept its sanctions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you want to cancel the subsidies for Hungary? Well, that's amazing. This is outrageous!]] Your anemic program is just not about how it will be better for people, for many people in Hungary. Of course, you have not been interested in this, because since 2010, our economy has risen from 39 percent of the EU average to 44 percent of the countries around us, except for Slovenia, it has been able to produce all the higher increases and higher developments in order not to talk about the Baltic countries. That there are many crises in the country, regardless of the epidemic, you knew exactly what happened in 2019. The Minister of Finance has even spoken of a budget amendment because you have already prepared for this, but you are not prepared for these economic problems and for these consequences. Now, during the period of 430,000 unemployment, the majority of large companies and the luckier ones of the Mészáros companies are supported, and 3 thousand people have a gross HUF 160,000 opportunity. Dear members of the government, you've got it all figured out. The main reason for the health and educational crisis is that the government spends less on this area year after year in proportion to its GDP. In the EU, only Romanian health care is worse than Hungarian. The educational results remain well below the EU average. Early school leaving, cutting off disadvantaged people from quality education, cutting back on general education for higher education participants reflects the government's vision of the future, the reliance on trained workers and the economy of assembly. The social crisis is therefore being deepened by you all by skimming the support for development, which the middle-class families will unfortunately overlook for you, due to the small improvement they have made. Too bad they're doing this. We can talk about the pension system as well. Because of the crisis, we need to talk not only about breaking pensions off wages, but also about their depreciation. Everyone here has been talking about the economic crisis that has been coming for years, and in view of that, your Finance Minister, as I have said, has even envisaged redesigning the budget, while at the moment he is cornered by the Committee on Budgets. But he is keen to plan next year, while he cannot account for last year, and he has no idea of the budget figures for this year. Well, dear fellow Members, instead of a Dakota saying, a Hungarian saying says that this horse, which is not blind, is only brave, says his master. But there are at least 133 of them, and they run around like herders without reason or reason. We're just not making any progress, honourable pro-government. What's going on? The European economy, which has been unbroken for ten years, has been used up and has no room for manoeuvre. No wonder the Hungarian people feel abandoned by the Orbán government in this crisis. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-25-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-25-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try. He was referring to education. I would like to reply briefly. I was alarmed in a similar tone by the fact that graduations should not be organized, and then it turned out that 97 percent of graduate students attended. That's it. There is no discussion between us that we must protect the Hungarian economy and jobs with all our might. We sense that this is now increasingly at the heart of the debates in Hungarian public life, but in order to focus on this, we needed the effectiveness of the first stage of defence. The reason why we can place increasing emphasis on economic protection measures is because in recent days we have crossed a psychological limit, now there are more healings than the active infected patient, and I think that this is a serious result. Let me open a parentheses thought about health protection to the economic aspects. At a time like this, like what we are leaving behind, the opposition would have had the opportunity to join forces. Unfortunately, we saw the exact opposite. First of all, in legislation, where possible, they were crossed. Then they continued one of the worst traditions of recent years, fake news production, which was extended even to the international scene. CNN could not have said that the Hungarian Parliament would have ended the meeting if you had not said so in this House. It was also claimed to be foreign television that medical workers would not be able to get masks. The representative concerned had to be disproved by the head of the health institution. A current or former better-looking congressman apologized for that, and it's been pretty hard to follow with visitor protective equipment in a hospital lately, when he probably knew very well that doctors didn't use it. So the employees of Jahn Ferenc Hospital are waiting for your apology. With these actions, they probably wanted to attack the government, but they are actually undermining public confidence in doctors and nurses, and now they need support, not an attack. [[11.30]] As far as salary is concerned, there is a 72 percent wage increase in 2018-22, and you always deny it, and you will receive half a million additional benefits from healthcare workers. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: To our suggestion! Good.]] As far as economic aspects are concerned, we do not work from the forecasts in Brussels, because they are more pessimistic than ours, and they usually need to be corrected afterwards. One thing is certain that the decisions made in recent weeks already prove their viability: only with the help of investment support and wage support we can save 200 thousand Hungarian jobs, this is the guarantee that Hungarian companies have undertaken. In addition, according to the NAV aggregates, tax reliefs help to protect 360,000 Hungarian jobs. We are now hearing your suggestions, and I am also trying to read them, and from these things it is quite clear that they have learned nothing but nothing from their previous failed crisis management practice. They want to use the same recipe: tax increases, relief, and wage cuts. And we say this not only on the basis of their speeches, but also on the basis of their actions. For example, in Ózd the wages of the kindergarten teachers were reduced, in Miskolc, left-handed, the employees of municipal companies, in Hódmezővásárhely there can also be a wave of layoffs. Here in this House, people are referred to, but where they are in a decision-making position, they reduce their salaries or take their jobs. So much for left-wing social sensitivity. It's not social sensitivity, it's hypocrisy, it's an adult. So if left-wing parties want to do something for the economy, for the protection of jobs or for keeping or raising salaries, they will withdraw austerity decisions in the affected municipalities. If they did not, it would again prove that where the left is in a position to decide, no employee and no job can feel safe. And here's the thing: you referred to it, I'm glad you brought it up. In recent days, you have received a slight echo, but it is serious: you have launched a campaign to ensure that the Hungarian government does not receive EU funds. As, fortunately, most of the funds are still being decided at home and not abroad, this proposal actually means that Hungary should receive less EU funds. That's pretty amazing. No party policy considerations can justify a political group working against its own country. What you're proposing wouldn't hurt the government, it would hurt the whole country. So I'm asking you to stop this right now. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Active Affairs." You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Very rightly, the extraordinary legal order is slowly ending, and thank God, the epidemic has not exploded in Hungary as much as in other countries of Europe. This is thanks to the discipline of the Hungarian people, the sacrifice of the people working in the healthcare and social sectors, and thanks to the many volunteers who have helped the elderly in recent weeks and months. But this epidemic brought into the spotlight the serious errors in the last ten years' government of Fidesz. The first is that you ripped the social network apart. They're talking about no Hungarian being alone, but I have the bad news that there are a lot of people alone. There are 500,000 children starving in the country, 3 million living below the minimum living standards, and hundreds of thousands of pensioners living in poverty. You have not increased the family allowance, the child, the child, the maternity allowance in the last ten years. You have not increased the initial amount of baby bonds, and you have not increased the minimum amount of pension in the last ten years. The other area is the catastrophic state of health. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. How is it that in the epidemic situation nurses earn 20 to 30 percent less because they can't take part in their jobs? Well, why don't they make enough money not to need it? Or you've been conducting an exercise in health care, endangering the lives of thousands of people. What do you think of the case in Esztergom? Fun story? Look in the eyes of the family who lost their child, they lost their mother. And the economy. What was the first thing they did in the economy? Saving friends and relatives. Tens of thousands of businesses were waiting to help them, as they did in the surrounding countries. But you have done so late and narrowly, as a result of which tens of thousands of jobs have been lost in recent years. And there's education. You have routed around the country at the time of developing digital content, announced tens of billions of forints of EU funding, and then, when digital education had to be introduced, one third of children dropped out of the education system, because they had neither the means nor the knowledge to adapt to this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that reconstruction is needed. We need to rebuild the social network, which is why the MSZP is demanding that family allowances be increased, pensions increased, and low pensions be caught up. Health care needs to be rebuilt, so the MSZP demands that the wages of healthcare workers be increased on the basis of the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and that there should be an independent Ministry of Health with a responsible head. After all, this state-of-the-art system has failed, and your minister is completely incompetent. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: You failed!]] We need to rebuild the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Do not think primarily about public work, for example, there is an opportunity for green investment. Get started on the building insulation program through the municipalities. Create a job there and invest in long-term return investments the money you say is now available, as energy emissions are decreasing, family costs are falling and people's wealth is rising in the long term. Work on housing programmes so that young people can start their lives and make these investments through local authorities. And we also need to rebuild the education system. Today, a significant proportion of children do not have the XXI. With the knowledge appropriate to the challenges of the century. And if you're waiting for the second wave, you have to ensure, the next time such a situation arises, the right tools and the right knowledge, so that no one falls from education and everyone gets to the right knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the package of proposals that would really help the Hungarian people, and in which genuine solidarity, real solidarity, or what you are always talking about, is cooperation, so that no one really feels alone for our common future, for Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Hungary was able to defend itself effectively against the Crown Virus. In order to do this, it was really necessary what you said, honourable Member, that the Hungarian people should also try as hard as possible to comply with the epidemiological measures, which we thank them for. There was a need for healthcare workers, for law enforcement workers, for workers in the social sphere, and for many others who made a separate sacrifice, and for this reason Hungary was able to defend itself effectively. But it was also necessary, honourable Member, to make these decisions quickly. 'Cause you know as well as I do, the person who took the measures slower has put the country's population at serious risk. And you, in this Parliament, have not contributed exactly to this speed. If necessary, the government will be able to decide and protect people's health in hours. Because you said that this is about eliminating parliamentarianism right now, it's about not having elections in 2022 that obviously made you laugh. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's why you thought about the advance!]] With these kind of alarms, but with these ridiculous, unfounded reasons, they did not vote to allow the government to decide within hours. It was not up to you that these measures were taken in time and that the Hungarian people were able to comply with them, and that is why we have been able to protect ourselves effectively, ten million people, fifteen million people, from the virus epidemic, honourable Member. This is the result, but the results of the rapid measure are that much fewer infected people per million inhabitants in Hungary N/ A, N/ A, N/ A, In Hungary it is 48, while in the Netherlands it is 330, Sweden 374, England 526 or Belgium 795, while in Hungary it is only 48. But let us not look at the list of countries, honourable Member, and look at the list of capital cities, how the population is proportional to the average of the country. [[11.40]] Well, here's the reverse. If you look at the list of countries, Hungary is the best third. On the other hand, if we look at the list of capital cities, how much more over-infected the capital than the national average, then there are only five capital cities in Europe that would produce worse results: Brussels, Moscow, Bern, Helsinki and Bratislava. All other capitals bring better results than Budapest, so the surplus in the capital is smaller than the national average. Thus, Budapest will have Copenhagen, Sofia, Dublin, Warsaw, Oslo, Prague, Madrid, Athens, Paris, Riga, Stockholm, Lisbon, Ljubljana, Vilnius, Zagreb, Amsterdam, Bucharest, Vienna, Tallinn, Berlin, London, Rome, and even Washington. This is mainly due to insufficient attention to elderly homes in the capital [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You took the patients from the hospitals!]] the one you led in Budapest. This, unfortunately, threw away the infected in Budapest [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You took the patients from the hospitals on purpose!]] and the proportion of the deceased. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] While at national level we were able to be the best one third, unfortunately there are only five capital cities at the capital level, whose data is worse than that of Budapest. It is clear from this, honourable Member, that it does not matter who makes their decisions in time, he has decided that it is not a kind of continuous decision-breaker than your leadership in the capital. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Testing has been banned in hospitals!]] Here is the result, the tangible result, honourable Member, of this, of not consulting people, of not consulting experts. You talked about the need for wage increases. Honourable Congressman, What have you done with the crisis? The wages of teachers were reduced during the crisis, the wages of nurses, the wages of doctors, the wages of social workers were reduced. That is what you have done, your fellow Members, Attila Mesterházy, Lajos Korózs, István Hiller, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, are sitting in your faction, in your allied fractions there are Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai, Sándor Burány, all voted in favour of the reduction of your salary when you are here in Parliament demanding a raise. And if you look around the opposition-led municipalities, Miskolc, Hódmezővásárhely, Vacon or many other places, what do you see? The salaries of city workers are reduced by local governments. Ozd, for example, even in cases where they receive the 100% normative after paying their kindergarten workers, but still reduce their wages by 25 percent. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The state pays 100 percent, the municipality takes 25 percent off of this and doesn't give it to the kindergarten staff, even though it's in your budget, honourable Member. What responsible attitude is this on your part? And I strongly reject what you said that government wage subsidies would only benefit large businesses. In recent weeks, I have spoken to countless smaller businesses in my constituency. Some have 10 employees, some have 11 employees who can make very good use of these grants. In fact, if I look at the number of companies in my own district, most of them are such small-scale businesses that could use this wage support to keep jobs. However, what you are doing here, together with your fellow Member from DK, is that Hungary would be deprived of the possibility of EU support even during the crisis, and that is the biggest irresponsible thing, the politics against Hungarian people, and that Hungarian people would be punished because they have already voted for Viktor Orbán in three elections, so nothing is expensive for you, so they would also reject the EU funds for them from the Hungarian people. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You did the same in opposition!]] Shame on you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title 'Life behind the delegation sets'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-25-17	Mr President, Dear House, At the beginning of the debate, Fidesz-KDNP is the European champion of the derailment of debates. This is true in recent years of economic issues, in terms of economic vulnerability, demographic aspects or even crime issues, but every betrayal of the thirty years behind us has the political witchcraft kitchen and spectacle bakery that Fidesz-KDNP has developed. It has been shown that when a Fidesz secretary of state stands up and turns the lives of Hungarian dead people into a statistical competition and tries to confront the question of Budapest-rural Hungary, he does the same thing as the essence of Fidesz: war, sick psychosis [[Impressive Dezső: That's right!]] the confrontation of the metropolitans with rurals, the confrontation of people living in truncated Hungary with those living outside the border, and the Secretary of State of Hate stands up [[Noise.]] The Secretary of State of Hate stands up and lies. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári, showing a paper: Here are the numbers! These numbers!]] [[Noise.]] The Secretary of State of Hate stands up and lies. (Dr. Bence Rétvári, showing a paper: Here are the numbers! These numbers! ) Pathetic! In this historic situation, Mr Secretary of State (Noise) In the context of the disease control, it should have been achieved that a national minimum should be established in Hungary. Instead of the national minimum, what did Fidesz do? He put before us one of the slyest laws of the decade, the authorisation law, which, at the moment of his conception, proved to be a liar. I mean, what happened after you didn't pass the authorization bill the first time? You started to frighten me by opening schools for this reason, so you have to let those who are waiting at the border or those who arrive there. What happened, fellow Members? Now it's time to yell and lie, Mr. Retvári. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] Well, what happened was that Müller Cecília and the Minister of the Interior were able to do it with a pen stroke without a law of authorisation to keep the schools closed, and no one could come in, by the way, quite rightly, at the Hungarian border. It could therefore have been achieved at a national minimum. I was open to it, I'm open to it now, and so was our faction. You didn't want to do this because you turned this whole question into a despicable, sneaky, political witchcraft bake sale. What they are trying to say is that your epidemiological defense is excellent in Europe, and they had the nerve to make a political panel out of whether or not Parliament would meet. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You made this political.]] This Parliament is in session, indisputable. This is where the authorisation law was adopted and the lies that I am talking about were accepted. What did you say at the moment? Parliament will meet only to bring in very important issues related to disease control. Let's see, fellow Members, what you brought in. To conclude a cooperation agreement with Singapore. Was it really fucking urgent? Yes! Issues of greenhouse gas trading. Budapest-Belgrád railway, fellow Members! Is this what you consider to be the timely, strategically important investment at the cost of debt from international credit of a thousand billion-dollar magnitude? They also continued an apparent non-existent war with Brussels, my fellow members of the government. Then what do they do? Now, these days, they're going to take on that loan, loan, aid, whatever we call it, that can be used to protect jobs. It is a good aim to protect jobs, and I support it in everything, although I had an argument with those in front of me about the fact that Jobbik's programme "Hungarian Protection Fund" would make up 80% of lost wages, including those who have already lost their jobs, and those who have lost their jobs. You were able to make up for 10 to 20 percent of the total wage loss. They talk about 200,000 saved jobs, and they don't talk about the same number of Hungarians who are looking for a job now, and they don't get any financial benefits for three months, because your chemical neoliberal politics, giving up all social groups, doesn't involve dealing with the fate of these people, as they don't fit the evicted, they don't fit in with the foreign exchange loan victims, they don't fit in with the countrymen living in the entire wreckage zone, and they can't afford to change their fate. But not so that after the encryption of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line and its details, a proposal is brought forward, strictly in terms of epidemiological protection, for the greater domestic real estate entrepreneurs, once again, in order to facilitate foreign and domestic expansion of larger Hungarian real estate investors. This is what you have used the epidemiology defense to do, often slylyly, often completely openly transferred provisions that give your oligarchs additional orders, additional opportunities to rebuild and develop the NER, and in the meantime, spectacularly, in the midst of stage supplies, you will be given the authority to say, yes, once again, we have returned it to you. The surface is blabbing, listening to the deep. The fact is, in this case, you can see perfectly what motivations dominated this government. I would be able to forgive you for anything in the event of a fair communication behind the CDC defense and the authorisation law. There is one thing I cannot forgive, and the unreasonably sending patients home from hospitals, Hungarian people died unwarrantedly. You'll never be able to wash that historical responsibility behind the set of the Powers Act. [[Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: You walk like Sneider!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-25-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-25-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Honestly, I'm going to start with a personal confession: I'm getting more and more shocked at hearing your speeches. You are the Member of Parliament who says on each occasion that he wishes to have a constructive debate in this House. A lot of opposition representatives do not do this, so they do not say nor do they do that, nor do they say that. But you are taking every opportunity to say that you believe that there should be a constructive debate here in this House, and then you are pouring a flood of hatred upon us that, indeed, even Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi and the other opposition representatives could wake up their pants. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] The current of hatred that you have now poured on the pro-government representatives has been said after Secretary of State Rétvári has told us the numbers. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I don't hate you. I don't know why you think that.]] He told us the statistics, told us the government philosophy, and, for example, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi shouted that we were deliberately sending infected patients from the hospital. [[11.50]] So, I don't know how you feel about dissonance, do you feel that both things can't be true at the same time? So you can't be attracted to the image of a constructive Member of Parliament to save Hungarian democracy, and in the meantime you can't continue the speaking practice that we now hear from you on a regular basis. I'd like to go through factual rebuttals. First of all, we have made it clear from the very first moment that there is a need to introduce a special legal order. It is necessary because it makes our legal system fit to defend ourselves against the coronal virus. In this we asked for the support of all Members of Parliament, but from the first moment we made it clear that we were expecting Parliament to continue to function, that we wanted the framework of ordinary legislation and the framework of extraordinary legislation to separate from each other, that opposition representatives would have had a greater opportunity and opportunity to debate the government's actions. As long as the epidemic allows, we will also maintain the normal course of Parliament and with the mandate to defend itself against the Crown Virus, and with it we will be able to save lives quickly, to maintain health and quickly to protect jobs and create new ones. That's what we asked for, and that's what you rejected, which you said was a big no, and which your party leader, your group leader, for example, has communicated on several forums that this is nothing but about the Prime Minister crowning himself and another step towards the introduction of autocracy. I understand that you are in need now. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] I understand that. I understand, because if you look at the statistics, it is quite clear that the epidemic threat has not passed, but Hungary has managed the first phase of the epidemic in an international comparison, thanks to the cooperation of the Hungarian people, even without you. What I can imagine is that it must be very difficult to account for the fact that the Hungarian people, the government and everyone involved in the defence could achieve this result without your support and even with your obstacle. What did you say about the economy? As regards the economy, they also said that Brussels will have to turn to Brussels. Your group leader here in Parliament has said this several times. Unfortunately, Mr President, the situation is that Brussels is not helping, the Hungarian government and constitutional bodies are trying to help, and the largest economic protection package of all time has been put together. Even if you deny the existence of this, you will suffer in the same way as you did in connection with the delegation law. And if you'll allow me, one more thing: it's your party leader, the leader of the group, who often quotes Sándor Petőfi, that he's still asking for the people. That is certainly true, but it seems that you are certainly not wanted by the people. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And that is no wonder, because Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc swore on the steps of Parliament to protect the country and democracy. This is particularly pathetic 14 years after the fall speech. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) And it was you who disqualified the Member who once declared himself out of the choir and refused to call a dictatorship from Ferenc Gyurcsány's sheet music about a policy bill, but told the truth that there was nothing wrong with this law. The Hungarians don't want any of this. Congratulations. You'll be Attilas of the Better Retkes, be proud of it. If you have any courage, at least apologize. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-05-25-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, KDNP, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "The Act of Discounted Localization" for 10 years. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The biggest act of national policy and perhaps the biggest undertaking of the Hungarian administration is naturalisation. In these days, the 100th anniversary of the Trianon national break-up on the one hand and the 10th anniversary of the preferential naturalisation on the other. On 26 May, the Parliament adopted a 98 percent majority amendment to the citizenship law, which created the possibility of simplified localization for Hungarians across the border. In terms of numbers, thanks to the simplified localization in the Carpathian Basin, 940 000 people took the oath of citizenship, while in the diaspora about 160,000 people received Hungarian citizenship in the traditional way. In total, 1 million of our fellow nations became our countrymen. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] At the beginning of the naturalization a multitude of Hungarians from abroad came across the border to submit their application for localization in Hungarian municipalities, and then our consulates in Transylvania, southern Transylvania and Transcarpathia became the centers of localization, and today we also go to the remotest small village in abroad to hold consular days. Of course, the possibility of naturalization is always open, but it can be said that whoever wanted to become a Hungarian citizen became a Hungarian citizen. It is also important to know that Hungary does not issue nationality information, so those natives who are in principle prohibited by the given successor state are also safe. It is also instructive to recall where we started: the express administrative and political anti-Hungarianism. Restrictive bureaucracy in the public administration caused bitterness and disappointment to Hungarians from abroad. For example, the csángos were not recognized as Hungarians, which is why we had to put the csángó clause in our law separately. In political terms, the 5th of December 2004, which was the treason itself, when Ferenc Gyurcsány and his socialist government failed to campaign against Hungarians across the border, excluding them from the public-law nation, causing spiritual Trianon. Thank God it's all gone to the disgrace of national memory by now. But I can't hide the fact that we had to deal with the thousands of attacks of some less friendly successor states, the disinformation mines of enemy secret services, in which, unfortunately, some journalists and organs here have played an ignominious role. The difficulties are instructive, the results are lasting. Today, Hungarian registration, passport and electronic identity card is the easiest and fastest possible, and many options have been opened up to our foreign Hungarians in the same way as Hungary, from maternity support to baby bonding. The children of the naturalists are born Hungarian citizens, and thus the public bond with the Hungarian state returns to the Carpathian Basin as a result of which the right to vote is the cornerstone of the national unity of public law. Thus, the Parliament is indeed a national assembly. Dear National Assembly, Of course, numbers are important, statistics are important. But what is really important is that behind the numbers there are flesh and blood people, the history of families, so many Calvarys, who have been busy for a century, called unpatriotic, but with the possibility of preferential naturalization we have given a kind of truth to our blood. Our national policy forms a unified, coherent and now sized arch, an integral, decorated part of which is naturalization. With regard to this curve, we should mention that in the spirit of identity preservation and strengthening, we have gained more than ten times the budget support of Hungarians abroad from the University of Sapientia in Transylvania, from the University of Transylvania to the thousands of Hungarian kindergartens built and rebuilt in the Carpathian Basin to the hundreds of Csoma Sándor Kőrösi Scholarships sent to the diaspora, and what is paradigmmatic is a huge expansion of economic development going beyond the border. For a hundred years, it was a disadvantage for a Hungarian person to finally have an advantage. This, together, is a realistic response to Trianon today to stop and even reverse assimilation. The National Assembly, the Hungarian administration, the Hungarian organizations from abroad, the churches and local governments can be proud of this work. In life, including public life, many things are fleeting, but naturalization is history itself. Thank you very much. [[12.00]]
u2020-05-25-22	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, On 26 May 2010, the National Assembly adopted the amendment of the citizenship law, creating the possibility of simplified localization in so-called technical language, which was an old desire for Hungarian communities across the border and for many who live in the motherland. An almost unprecedented national unity has emerged, and we should also record this here, I think, particularly recent after the debate before today's agenda, that the amendment was adopted by the Parliament almost unanimously by a 97.7 percent majority. This was a rare moment, and on 1 January 2011, the process could start after a huge organization of infrastructure, IT and personnel. I am very proud, by the way, that at the beginning of the work I was able to participate in it as a first-time lawyer, as a civil servant. It has also been said that 983,000 simplified naturalization applications have been submitted in the last 9 years, 936 thousand have taken the oath of citizens, 41 thousand have been rejected and 202 have been denied citizenship. In addition, among the Hungarian diaspora, some 153 thousand people were able to be naturalized either in a traditional way, or to obtain recognition of their Hungarian citizenship, so that they could be provided with documents certifying Hungarian citizenship. This is how we succeeded in achieving our goal of becoming more than a million new Hungarian citizens. In 2010, we started from almost zero, with a specific anti-Hungarian citizenship regime and a terribly complicated, restrictive bureaucracy. Many of our countrymen have been deeply disappointed. The introduction of simplified naturalisation was therefore one of the biggest achievements of the last ten years, with nearly 200,000 applications in 2011, against the previous 5,000 applications. This has been the test of the entire Hungarian administration and has been a great result from the registrar of the smallest settlements to the head of an overseas embassy, so I would also like to thank everyone for their effort and for their persistent work in this area. In 2010, there was no simplified naturalization application, but Hungarian foreign representations could not even issue a Hungarian passport. Today full-fledged Hungarian citizens can apply for passports, electronic identity cards, and their birth-book events are entered in the Hungarian registers. The certificate of Hungarian citizenship, the Hungarian registration of birth has become as simple as possible. The possibility of war care, baby bonds and maternity support has been opened. One of the most important points in the national unity of public law has also been mentioned by Deputy Prime Minister, that all Hungarian citizens can vote. The basis for this is, of course, the institution of simplified naturalisation itself. By 2010, the previous government closed a series of embassies and consulates, which have since been re-opened, and a series of new foreign representations have been established. Foreign representations have opened up and maintain an excellent relationship with local Hungarian communities, mutually supporting each other's work and the survival of Hungarians. The so-called consular days, which are held by Hungarian foreign representations, are of outstanding importance, and which, due to long distances, provide enormous help not only to applicants but also to all Hungarian citizens. With this, the Hungarian administration will return to the smallest village in Transylvania, as there are always new applicants, and it is a pleasure that the children of the naturalized ones will see the light of day as Hungarian citizens. Statistics behind each number are one man, one man's fate. Young, elderly, academics, monks, ordinary people could take the oath of citizenship, which in many cases became a cathartic lifelong experience. Our more than 100-year-old compatriots could be teary-eyed again, second and third time Hungarian citizens. This could be used to heal the wounds caused by the referendum on 5 December, which was a mournful memory. Over the past ten years, all fears and alarms have been refuted, either in connection with dual citizenship or the conduct of foreign elections. These gut alarms can be read back, recalled. The Hungarian national policy, the institution of simplified naturalization, has been subjected to a series of attacks in recent years, from false news to secret service actions in foreign countries. It is a foundation that the Hungarian government protects all Hungarians, and we have successfully done so, whether it is the right of one community or the data of new citizens. The simplified naturalization is a public union of the nation, on which the entire Hungarian national policy is based as a stable basis. We've had a particularly successful decade, and today we're proud to say that we belong together. The Government of Hungary is committed to further strengthening this cohesion. Thank you for your support. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-25-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With the end of the first phase of the epidemic, we need to take stock of what has happened and assess what has happened. Hungary has effectively defended itself and we can all be proud of our doctors, our nurses, our virologists, our police officers, our soldiers and our social workers. All our lost countrymen are in pain, but the fact that the number of deaths has not become more than the number of deaths that we have now, as in many other countries, also commends and is due to the preparedness and determination of our professionals and government. The discipline and cooperation of our fellow Hungarians are exemplary, and we have shown what we can do if we work together. However, from this cooperation, the opposition has been left out, withdrawn, and therefore we must also take stock of what the Hungarian Parliamentary opposition has done, even because they tend to believe that reality will never confront them, or that they will never be confronted with a rebuttal of their own lies. In the last two, two and a half months, our Hungarian opposition has basically not needed a great deal of memory to do it, they have published false photos of Hungarian hospitals, they have personally attacked Hungarian professionals. And here I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Müller Cecília, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, for her unprecedented ability to work [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] for his expertise, for his composure, for his humanity, and for all those who insulted and abused him simply because he did his job with diligence [[György Balla: That's right!]] I could also bring my fellow Member, Zoltán Varga, who did this at the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee. But let's go back to all the lies and lies that have been going on for the last two and a half months. We will not forget that you did not support the extension of the emergency during the four fifth vote; nor that Szabó Timea said that most people die in Hungary, which was obviously a lie. Last week, our fellow harvester ventured to express his regret that the country was not bad at death. Bertalan Tóth spoke of unlimited power; we reject this statement regardless of spelling. My fellow Member Peter James lied about crowning the Prime Minister. A separate Picantéria György Szilágyi Jobbikós interview last week, an article of popular speech in itself, which appeared there, where the sentence is said that the Prime Minister, according to Mr Szilágyi, has found the opportunity to seize power temporarily but permanently. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] This also raises philosophical questions. But they lied about graduation, the quality of protective equipment. Congressman Hadházy has declared civil disobedience, but some have threatened with lamp irons, cried dictatorship, and have teased people. [[12.10]] But you also have the energy to drive our countrymen against Hungarians across the border, and of course, you have had the opportunity to order dozens of discrediting articles abroad and to break down Brussels and the European Parliament that is not meeting otherwise, so that they can abuse their own country there as well. The Hungarian Parliament met 20 times, while no one of you denied the news spread abroad that the Hungarian Parliament was not meeting. However, there was also energy in order to conclude the buddies' contracts with Csaba Czeglédy or Zoltán Komáromi, for example, in the value of ten million. So this is your disease management, so this is what you have been able to offer in the last two months, and we can now see it very clearly and it can be said that all along you have hoped that the fight against the epidemic will fail, because this is what you have hoped for political benefit. [[György Balla: Shame!]] You could have used more human sacrifice, but you could have made political profits. There is no time left, my fellow Members, to apologize to all those who have been insulted, dishonored, and to apologize to the whole country for running abroad for the demise of our country; to apologize to the people across the border and to the Hungarian government and to all those who have been accused of dictatorship and charged with full power. This week, the law to which the Prime Minister has already referred will be submitted, so let us set the deadline for you to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The coronal virus has made a difference in every way: it has stopped our work, changed our daily lives, and it has swept off the table our well-designed future plans. But we managed to win the first battle against the virus: thousands of doctors, nurses, policemen and soldiers worked hard, and thousands of workers in factories who worked there, in grocery stores, in transportation, in cleaning, and in other important areas, all whose work was essential and indispensable. Thank you and thank you for this work. Honourable Congressman, The epidemic is decreasing, and on 4 May the number of active infected began to decline. Indeed, we mourn all the sacrifices, but we can now say that Hungary has performed well in the first stage of defence. Honourable Congressman, The sad thing is that as long as the Hungarian people moved in trouble almost as one, the opposition pulled itself out of responsibility and work. They did not support the extension of the emergency, thereby endangering effective defence. The representation of their current self-interest in politics was more important to them than the life and health of the Hungarian people. But they do nothing for it, and then, of course, they try to cover themselves with all kinds of false news and slides. For example, we can raise the Fake News on the non-existent EUR 2000 billion in Brussels, or, for example, as you have mentioned, Mr Group Leader, that Parliament does not meet. And the problem is not that we are being attacked politically, but that they are lying, spreading net lies, knowingly destroying public confidence, and making defense more difficult. Honourable Congressman, The opposition has still not learned anything, repeating the same recipe in crisis management, which has failed once before: it wants another aid-based economy, again calls for irresponsible measures and again does not look at the interests of the Hungarian people. If they could, they would re-indebte Hungary and bring our country to the clutches of financial speculators. The opposition is also discredited when it comes to protecting jobs, because they were the ones who had previously dealt with the crisis with austerity on the government. The left, we remember it well, handled the crises by putting more and more burdens on the shoulders of the Hungarian people instead of helping them. Let's remember the Bokros package and the 2009 cutbacks. Since then, we know exactly what left-wing crisis management means. But let's be specific. The 13th month pension was abolished, the duration of the pension was reduced, the general VAT rate was raised by 5 percentage points, the family allowance was included in the tax scheme, the retirement age was increased, the sickness allowance was reduced, a month's wages were taken from the public sector employees, a property tax was introduced and, moreover, the country was to be sold with an evenly large IMF loan. Balliberal governments, however, have also made it impossible to manage local governments, and their resources have not covered their most basic tasks. Honourable Congressman, Speaking of local governments, politicians on the left, during the epidemic, repeatedly prove that they really don't care about anything but themselves and power. Left-wing municipalities announce restrictions, cuts and keep their employees in a state of uncertainty. This is justified by the fact that the government has shifted the vehicle tax to control the epidemic, which, we know, represents only about 1 percent of the municipal budget. The better-run Ózdon reduced the salaries of preschoolers and cultural workers by 25 percent, who did not accept the mayor's offer, and could expect unpaid leave. And there is a long list of these measures, which are unworthy, outrageous, and repulsive. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dóra Dúró, independent; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; István Simicskó, KDNP; Tamás Sneider, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Hungarian Zoltán, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:16 p.m., we're gonna start negotiating immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think about this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2020-05-25-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Imagine, Prime Minister, there is something that we can agree on. You recently said on the radio that this crisis will not be solved by theoretical, but by practical people. I fully agree with you: you cannot solve the crisis in the labour market precisely because you do not have any practical experience on the labour market. You don't know what it's like to be an employee, you don't know what it's like to live on average wages, you don't know what it's like to lose your job, and you can hope that maybe there'll be someone else, not just community service. The thing is, for you, one job is exactly the same as the other: piece-piece, one number in the statistics. Obviously, this is why Hungary is so foolish to say that Hungary is handling the crisis more successfully than the European Union, just because we are able to employ up to 200,000 public workers. Prime Minister, community service is not a success. You know what success is? When you manage to save 200,000 jobs, well, that's a success. If you don't think so, if you think community service is a successful crisis management, then I really can only advise you to gain practical experience, take a month as a public worker and then live from 54 thousand forints. If you fail, don't be discouraged, take the advice of your economic expert, the Fidesz President of the State Audit Office, and learn to save money, and if that doesn't work, think again how successful your crisis management is. In the meantime, I'll give you some practical advice, Prime Minister. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] As soon as possible, the state will take over 80% of the wages of the workers in distress. I want you to announce a discharge moratorium at the multinationals. The duration and amount of the unemployment benefit shall be increased. And if there are already HUF 2000 billion of free-to-use EU funds in this country, then this should be given momentum, not to Lőrinc Mészáros, but to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. If we do this, everyone here will be able to make a living within a guaranteed deadline. Do you support him? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-25-30	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who will answer the immediate question. Prime Minister, please.
u2020-05-25-31	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take this opportunity to give you the latest job security numbers. So so far, thanks to the government's measures, 1 062 684 people have received government support. This is partly cash, newly opened student loans, job-saving support, tax and contribution reductions, supported training and job creation. I also quote from today's data: all these measures together left HUF 2100 billion of resources in the economy. I would like to inform this House that 7566 companies have used the wage support for the protection of jobs, and this means additional wages paid to 119 914 workers. [[12.20]] We have a wage subsidy for R &amp; D workers. This can be used by researchers and developers, as appropriate. 574 companies requested this and affected more than 10,000 workers, to be exact, 10 039 workers. A HUF 127 billion investment in job creation has been received so far in the competitiveness-enhancing support programme managed by the Ministry of Szijjártó. We have been able to make 100 billion forints available so far. For free digital training, this means that we pay for it, from this free 61 886 people have applied, and Student Loan Plus has also just been opened in higher education for students who are also working in addition to learning, 10 251 students have requested it. What we've done, we'll do. Whatever jobs the virus destroys, we're gonna create. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-32	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give you the floor in return, please.
u2020-05-25-33	I understand what you're saying, Prime Minister, but half a million of our countrymen are no longer employed. Last time you said here in Parliament, everyone here will have a job in three months' time, and you have a guarantee of that. Meanwhile, in the convergence programme, he admitted to Brussels that this year unemployment will be 5.6 percent in Hungary and 4.3 percent next year. In other words, while you are lying here that everyone will have a job, you are admitting to Brussels that we will have hundreds of thousands of compatriots who will not only have jobs in three months' time, but not even next year. Meanwhile, you are launching a job creation programme for 34 billion forints not in Borsod, not in Szabolcs and Somogy, but in Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan; and we are spending 36 billion on cross-border economic development programmes, Prime Minister. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Do you think everything in Hungary is all right now? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Shame on you!]] Does everyone here have a job, Prime Minister, that we can help the Mongolian workers? Will they get community service, too? Or is it just the Hungarian man's bread? Answer me! [[Cries from the pro-government benches, among them: Shame on you! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-05-25-34	Dear Parliament, Stay calm. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A minute is not enough time to correct factual errors. So I'm just focusing on the point. I see that the leader of the Jobbik faction is trying to qualify for our work. I can say that Hungary has been through a very difficult and dangerous period, and we have suffered a global epidemic. The country has stretched its power to protect the lives of many tens of thousands of people. Our work, the work of the government, is judged by how we defended ourselves, and I must say with due modesty that we have defended ourselves exemplary and successfully in an international comparison. Your work, Your Honours, is classified by the fact that it has turned out that in the event of an emergency, you are not to be relied upon by the country. Not only did they not help but they attacked professionals who worked day and night in defense. I see this not only as I see it, but also as the voters, which is why you are now shrinking, and it is difficult to decide what shrinks more: the faction, your support or your logo. That's why the march of the old days has been replaced by their bettery-goody dwarf walk. Congratulations. Thank you very much. [[Delightfulness and great applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-25-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! The first wave of the epidemic seems to be at a standstill in our country, and thank God, here in Central and Eastern Europe, this took place with much less intensity than in some countries in southern Europe or Western Europe. So I think it's time for you and the government to see what decisions you've made, make them in time, and really help them or not. On 30 March you announced the largest economic rescue package of all time in the economy, and on 6 April you said that there would be measures similar to Kurzarbeit, and that pensioners would receive an extra week's pension next year. Then for a month, Prime Minister, nothing happened. On 8 May, we know from Minister Palkovic's wallet: after a month, 600 million forints were paid to a few hundred companies in the hardest month of April. You know, this is the month when Parliament voted for HUF 800 billion in the context of a Budapest-Belgrád railway line, Lőrinc Mészáros. I will help you: this is 1,000 times what companies in Hungary have received as aid. And it's no wonder that according to the National Employment Service, which reflects your data, 330 700 people have been unemployed until the end of April. Prime Minister, this is 7.1 percent unemployment. Let's look at the defense. Last Friday, for example, nurses at St. John's Hospital announced that after their work in the Covid class during the hardest period in April, they received less wages than before; they barely exceeded the net of 100,000 forints, but the same was also made public to the soldiers. I think that by abusing emergency authorization, a regulation has taken away all, not all, but the vast majority of their additional benefits. Soldiers serving at the border, Prime Minister, have brought home 100 to 200 thousand net forints less in the last few weeks. I'd like to ask you, Prime Minister, what you're going to say to the 330 000 unemployed, what you're going to say to these nurses and soldiers. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-25-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-39	It's a long list, my honourable fellow Member. First of all, on July 1st, we pay 500,000 forints to health care workers. And if we simplify your dialogue by saying what I'm gonna say to those who lose their jobs, I'm gonna tell them to come to us. Every man who has lost his job, if he sees that he can no longer get a job after the duration of unemployment benefit, contact us. We're gonna give everybody a job. Instead of aid, we give them a job that helps them to stay in the labour market and get good jobs again. The truth is, it's not a big deal to say the same thing twice, but I have to. I've just introduced you to what kind of economic protection measures we've taken, and they've reached over a million people in total. Only the capital injection we gave to businesses for job creation and investment exceeds the number you mentioned, the hundred billion. But you mentioned something else: were we well protected? I've done comparative analysis. The number of dead, of course, of which a lot of Hungarians are missing, who died, we also express our sympathy to their relatives - 491 people died in Hungary in the epidemic. United Kingdom: 36 thousand; Spain: 28 thousand; Italy: 32 thousand; France: 28 thousand; Germany: 8 thousand; Belgium: 9 thousand; Netherlands: 6 thousand; Sweden: 4 thousand; Romania: 1100; Austria: 640; Hungary: 491. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-40	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return, please.
u2020-05-25-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! I didn't agree to these numbers for a reason. I said we're happy... [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[12.30]] Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed? ! [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among other things: Shame on you! Laszlo Szászfalvi: Go home! The president's ringing the bell.]] I can give you a number, but I didn't do it by accident. 28 people died in our northern neighbor, Slovakia. Shall we go into these numbers now? I was talking about the government's decisions. You, Prime Minister. Why they sat on the money for two months; why they didn't give you help, so you wouldn't have to give people community service now, but they could have saved these jobs if you'd given them a penny, but you didn't. The numbers you're saying now, Prime Minister, have been paid in the last few weeks. Everyone in this country has been abandoned for two months, Prime Minister. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] And you know what the only thing that went really well was? Your brave men, including the brave men of the Secretary of State, raised 35 percent of their salary, have been doing well over the last few months. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Meanwhile, the nurses and the soldiers who were on the front line [[The president's ringing again.]] And they took less home. I don't think that's okay, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-42	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-43	We understand you don't want to deal with the facts, and you don't get into the numbers. It is not difficult for us Hungarians to congratulate Slovakia, and we say that they are more likely to defend themselves than we are. But that's okay, because we were ahead of other countries that I mentioned. On the other hand, whether everything has been taken as a measure in time: as far as the economy is concerned, I would remind you that for three months all people who have lost their jobs in Hungary will receive job search support, which is called unemployment aid. Three months. Then comes the period when the government has to intervene. And that's what happened, and that's what's gonna happen. Comparison in other sections: an emergency announcement took place in Hungary on the 7th day, in Italy on the 38th day. Ban school visits in Hungary on the 12th day after the infection, in Austria on the 21st day, in Italy on the 34th day. The border closure in Hungary was ordered on the 13th day in Austria, 24th day in Austria, 45th day in Spain, 48th day in Sweden, 56th day in France. We did not win the successful defense by winning the lottery; the whole country, including the government, did the right thing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-44	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "You can no longer comply with your own Constitutional Court? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-45	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! In November 2018, the Constitutional Court decided that the law on the regulation of invalid pensions, which Fidesz and the government led by you, was unconstitutional, violates the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular, and set a deadline for you to correct this law. This deadline expired on 31 March 2019, i.e. more than a year ago, but this correction has not been made. I would remind you that the board complained that it had a problem with reducing disability pensions without having been examined, that any change in the health of the individual had occurred, and that there had been an improvement. Of course, in a lot of cases it could not have happened, yet many hundreds of thousands of people were badly affected, tens of thousands of people, about 10 percent of those affected, who were quite simply dropped out of care. But there are examples of a reduction in the monthly salary of 122 thousand forints below 30 thousand forints. It is worth reminding you, Prime Minister, that this was already brought by the Constitutional Court, each member of which you nominated from Fidesz, members with a fidesz background, formed the Constitutional Court unanimously when this decision was made. Now, when we are in the economic crisis, and this affects all social groups differently, obviously, the disabled pensioners, who are struggling with the situation on the labour market anyway, are exponentially affected, so the question arises when the government wants to put this issue in order, when we see a proposal here in front of Parliament that would improve their situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-46	Thank you. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we're talking about an old case. The judgment of the Constitutional Court is not the old one, but the sociological foundation itself. In 2010, when, as you remember, there was a fortunate change of government in Hungary, we found so much abuse in the case of invalid pensions and early retirement pensions that we were forced to establish new rules. These are the new rules that were raised at the time, and about which the Constitutional Court ruling is now cited here. I will continue to insist on our position that there have been mass abuses. And we continue to stand by our position that from whom this disability pension has been taken or transferred, we have offered them the opportunity to report back to health care. They didn't. I don't want to accuse anyone of why they didn't, but a lot of people didn't. And this is the case that the Constitutional Court has made a decision on. It is not so easy to translate this decision of the Constitutional Court into the language of government action, but we are trying and working on it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-48	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-49	Thank you very much. We didn't hear a deadline then, and it didn't say that now, but when will this question be fixed? And I have not yet said in my first speech that those who have suffered this situation undeservingly, who have not changed their health, have not grown foot, Prime Minister, because this cannot happen, can hope for compensation, since in recent years they have suffered a serious financial loss. In five years, we're talking about 180,000 people in this situation. That's an awful big deal. We're talking about a lot of people here, a couple of wrong procedures, I don't think we can, we're talking about a mass problem here. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-50	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-51	Honourable Congressman, While I agree with you that the judgment of the Constitutional Court must be translated slowly into a language of decision, but believe me that it is not so simple, consider the fact that if you look at the fact that, at the time of your administration, we have taken this situation from you, which you are now asking me to remedy for the sake of historical loyalty, if we are on the day of the anniversary of the autumn speech, then let us mention this. [[The intervention of László Sebian-Petrovski.]] Well, it wasn't us, it was you who caused it, and we had to fix it. I would just like to say that three times more people with disabilities are working in Hungary today than they were working in your time. You can believe that we have good intentions, and we will solve this problem. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-52	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! The coronal virus epidemic has clearly shown that the Hungarian economy is not sustainable and is not crisis-resistant, many tens of thousands have lost their jobs, without income. As a lesson to the epidemic, it can be said that we cannot continue in the same place we left off before the outbreak. The European Union has developed a green reconstruction programme, which not only creates jobs, but also builds the economy in the direction that is less polluting, which is environmentally, natural and climate-friendly, which focuses on people's quality of life. Tens of thousands of jobs could be created along this programme, with the development of renewable energy production, the production, installation of low-performance solar power plants, solar collectors, the energy modernisation of residential buildings, the development of public transport and, for example, the strengthening of food self-sufficiency. Yet you are shutting down, despite the fact that you announced the government's climate and nature conservation action plan at the beginning of this year. 17 EU Environment Ministers called in an open letter for countries that are slightly reluctant to support the green reconstruction programme, but unfortunately we have learned from the ITM State Secretary that Hungary does not support the programme. I'd like to ask you why. Moreover, if we reject this, we will fall from billions of EU support. My second question concerns the bill for banning disposable plastics: why was it withdrawn? So far, we have not received a meaningful answer. Last week, I submitted a proposal that you have withdrawn. I would like to ask you, there is a chance, Prime Minister, that you still support this bill.
u2020-05-25-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-55	The honest and direct answer is that there is no. Not right now, actually. If I can explain it longer, here's what I'd like to say to you. Allow me to make a parentheses note before then. [[12.40]] Serious sentences slip easily through the mouths of my fellow opposition Members. I suggest you be more careful, if possible. So, for example, here's your sentence, which I just wrote that hundreds of thousands of people will be left without income. But no one is left without income in Hungary! If someone loses their job, they get unemployment benefits for three months. If you can't find a job after three months of unemployment benefit, you can stay at home and get income support we don't really recommend this, because it's extremely small, but if you don't choose this and you can't find a job on the market, then you can come to the state and the state offers you more opportunities, because we've just announced a state job creation program, which is part of public work, but it's part of recruitment, and it's part of much more. So I'd like to point out that if someone loses their job, they're on unemployment benefits for three months, and then they couldn't go back to work, and there won't be any people without income who come to us. It's important that he comes to us. So whoever's coming, we're gonna help. We offer different, diverse opportunities, but we will help everyone. As far as the green question is concerned, thank you for mentioning that the government has announced the climate and nature action plan. It also shows that we are not shutting ourselves down, and I am even committed to carrying it out; of course, along with nuclear energy, which is an old debate between us. Indeed, we had to withdraw the immediate ban on single-use plastic products, which is due to the fact that, despite the industry negotiations, we have not yet found a solution that we could offer small and medium-sized companies closing down a meaningful business opportunity on the market, i.e. they should have dismissed hundreds of people, briefly. So if we had done this in the way we have presented it, we would have done it in our best intentions, hundreds of people would have lost their jobs. So I'm gonna need time to negotiate with these companies, to see when and how single-use plastic devices can be removed from the market. Thank you for your understanding. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-56	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-57	Mr. Prime Minister, We believe that the community service programme is not a solution. Those who are going to enter the community service, 100,000 jobs that you have promised will receive virtually so little income that you simply cannot make a living out of the net worth of 60-65,000 forints. There's a lot of them who support families, pay rent, school children, I don't want to mention them. You can't make a living, that's not the answer. The Prime Minister did not reply to me that a great deal of jobs could be created, so there really could be tens of thousands of jobs with building energy modernisation, insulation, production of low-performance solar panels, solar collectors and equipment, and this could be done on the basis of fair market conditions. So I would like to get a specific answer from Prime Minister. The other is that this bill for banning disposable plastics has been prepared for quite a long time. Two weeks ago, when it was filed, you should have known that this was a problem. So you submitted it, and then you withdrew it. I would like to ask Prime Minister to support your own proposal, which I have repeated.
u2020-05-25-58	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-59	I need to answer three things in a minute. The first is that when you talk about jobs that can be created through green policy, when I close my eyes, I see Minister Palkovic in front of me, because that's exactly what he used to say. [[It's a rare blur.]] And he's putting these programs in front of the government, and we usually vote for them. So I am aware that what you demand of us is being implemented in the Ministry of Minister Palkovics. You are right that we should not have submitted that proposal, but the government is working according to a long plan, and that is how we submit the proposals. I should have noticed in time that it didn't have to be filed, because there was an epidemic, and what the economy couldn't bear in times of epidemic, unfortunately, it couldn't survive during an epidemic, so we submitted it and had to withdraw it. As far as community service is concerned, I can tell you that this is an old debate. You are a socially sensitive woman, as far as I can recall your comments. I ask you not to go without saying the fact that in 2010, when we announced the work-based economy, there were 230 thousand people in public work, and with the help of public work we were able to lead them back to the labour market, so there are only 85 thousand people today. This means that we were able to bring about 150,000 people back to the labour market through community service. I think it's a serious achievement. You're an opposition. I'm a pro-government man, but you should admit that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-60	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-25-61	Prime Minister! You called the performance of Miklós Kásler historical a few days ago. That is a rather unusual wording for the Minister. But I'm guessing that's what you meant by that. You also believe that, despite the protests of doctors, Miklós Kásler has cleared 32,000 hospital beds completely unnecessary. The doctors who resisted this foolish decision were simply fired by Miklós Kásler. It is also historic that thousands of serious patients have been sent home because of bed evacuations and delays in elective surgery, many of whom have unfortunately lost their lives. It's enough to think of the Terika of Óbuda, whose husband died in unbecoming circumstances in front of his family. It is also historical that doctors, nurses, and health workers in the front line have been employed for weeks without protective equipment. We know this from photos published by you, where you are fully dressed in pictures, but the doctors accompanying you work in canvas masks. Historically, I suppose it is also that during the epidemic nurses made less money than before: after the double shift of the nurses at János Hospital, 100,000 forints were taken home in April. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks:]] These are just some of Miklós Kásler's so-called historical deeds. Prime Minister! I have two very simple questions. If Miklós Kásler is capable of such historical actions, why did you appoint Sándor Pintér for the health screening, not the Minister of Health? I would also like to ask you how Miklós Kásler will remain at the head of the EMMI until 2022. Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2020-05-25-62	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-63	The last question will not be answered by me, but by Miklós Kásler. As far as health is concerned, I can tell you there that I believe that the operation of the operational tribe should continue. No one knows that the scientists will be right, and in the fall the plague will return in the form of a second wave. No one knows for sure. The example of the Spanish flu, which was the last epidemic of practical experience, is quite alarming. After we don't know, we start with caution. We're telling the operational tribe to stay up. The operational tribe is not an operational health tribe, but an operational tribe, because from border protection through health protection through disaster protection to the army, everyone who is supposed to act during an epidemic is involved. This tribe is therefore not led by the Minister of Health, but by the Minister of the Interior, the Deputy Prime Minister; I think it is well, so keep it that way. We will present our proposal to abolish the extraordinary legal order, perhaps tomorrow, following the decision of today's government meeting. I'm asking you to support this. But that doesn't mean that the epidemic threat has gone away, so we're also suggesting that we maintain an epidemic alert. What is happening now in health care is nothing more than preparing for an epidemiological emergency situation. We're going through everything so that we don't get into another situation where an epidemic strikes us, and we have to make very serious and profound changes in a short time. Therefore, health care is being screened now, and we want to enable health care to respond to a pandemic even in normal mode, so that no temporary injection is required, but also in natural mode, to a pandemic. This requires some changes, and this work is carried out by the operational tribe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-64	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-65	Prime Minister! As far as I know, ministers do not appoint themselves and replace them, but the Prime Minister asks them to replace them. [[Viktor Orbán: Me? The President of the Republic!]] So it would be quite unusual for ministers to tell themselves when they're leaving. [[12.50]] But you seem to be very pleased with Minister Kásler's performance, i.e. staying until 2022 and punishing Sándor Pintér by entrusting him with the due diligence. I still don't understand. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: No wonder!]] that if Sándor Pintér scans the health care system, which, by the way, does not understand what it means, but Miklós Kásler continues to write letters to hospitals, not in a regulation, but in an unconventional and unacceptable way, directs the profession to various things with no ear or tail, then what Sándor Pintér does with the due diligence while Miklós Kásler's rampage continues. Prime Minister, more people have died because of Miklós Kásler's instructions during the epidemic than have died in the epidemic itself. [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of the governing parties, including, "No, it's not true! Ouch! Shame! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Therefore, he must be held accountable...
u2020-05-25-66	Congresswoman!
u2020-05-25-67	... must be stopped, Prime Minister. [[They're shutting off his mike.]] Because a country is in danger because of Miklós Kasler.
u2020-05-25-68	Congresswoman, your time limit is up. I'm so sorry. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-69	It doesn't make me feel comfortable with my rejoinders. [[Szabó Timea: That was not my goal! Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] 'Cause I feel like I'm throwing peas on a wall against a lady and I need to be extra careful, but I need to use a phrase that clearly shows that you're not telling the truth when it comes to Minister Kasler. And I think the allegations you've made here, let's say, are factually false. [[Szabó Timea: Professionals!]] If Miklós Kásler hadn't been our minister, what would have happened was that we would have listened to you. What did you say? You said, I quote, this is a relatively harmless, inexpensive epidemic. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties, including: Shame! It's outrageous! The president's ringing the bell.]] Then the leader of your party foundation publicly stated that dealing with the crisis is not a national matter. Well, if we had listened to you, if Miklós Kásler had listened to you, we would have prevented those countries in death statistics from dying in Hungary, that is, more people would have died in Hungary than we did in a much worse way. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] What I can tell you is that Minister Kásler's instincts are probably professional, but it is not my concern that, although all international organisations have said that this will not be a serious epidemic, that it will not spread from man to man, or that it is unlikely that, nevertheless, he may be the first one in Europe to convene the body that has decided that we must defend ourselves, an operational tribe must be set up. I think that all of you, including you, especially your elderly relatives, should be thanked. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Professor Miklós Kásler. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2020-05-25-70	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What responsibility is placed in the defence of the Crown Virus on institutional support authorities? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[Szabó Timea is leaving the room. Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Go home! Bravo!]]
u2020-05-25-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, The fact that Hungary has successfully passed the first phase of defence, and the restrictions could ease even in Budapest, we have reached it together with the Hungarian people. Thank you all for doing this. Yet, the whole country is still watching as heartbreaking news what is happening in the elderly homes in the capital. In addition to the deficiencies in medical care on Pesti Road, it has also been confirmed that care and care for the caregivers are inadequate. The number of nurses and caregivers is limited, compared to the number of people allowed and the number of people in the institution is only half as small as it should be. There have also been serious hygiene problems on the Kamara Forest road, and as the number of infected has continued to increase in recent days, the Authority has imposed an epidemiological lockdown on the entire third floor of the building. Here 47 cared for, 12 workers have been infected, and 5 have died. The situation has become worrying, since there is a mass infection in both institutions. They confirmed that the elderly were without medical care and were not paying due attention to them. Now it turns out that at the time of the outbreak, many residents were sent to the hospital with dehydration, underfed, neglected. Last week, the director of the Pesti Road Home asked for his discharge and retirement, which was accepted by the Balliberal leadership of the capital city. I hope that all this doesn't mean that Gergely Christmas wants the head of the institution to take the fall. From the Mayor to this time, we hear only explanation instead of decisive action. He's in the mood to do something else. He wants to move homeless people to the city bypassing the views of the local authorities and the population, even though the homeless hostels are well equipped and not too crowded. Under the powers of the Metropolitan Assembly, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] on the vast majority of the submissions, 33 submissions were decided by himself, although he denies it without blinking. Dear Minister, In view of what has been said, I ask what responsibility is placed in the control of the coronal virus. [[The president's ringing again.]] institution-supporting municipalities. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-72	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler, who will answer the immediate question. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-25-73	Yes, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to start with some data. 55,000 of our countrymen live in nursing homes, state, municipal, civil and religious reservations. Taking care of them is clearly your maintenance task. 8,000 of our countrymen are thus taken care of by the state, and 3,800 by our countrymen by the capital. One in ten residents of the elderly homes in the capital are infected. Even sadder is the fact that one in six of the people who died in the country lived in a home reserved for the capital. More than half of the infected certified in all elderly homes are capitalised, and three quarters of all elderly homes have also come from these institutions. In the nursing home on Pesti Road, the number of people infected was 310, and 45 of them died. No wonder they didn't meet with a doctor at ten official inspections, and continued medical care wasn't provided until 12 April. There have been days when no one has seen a doctor; 60 nurses are missing at the moment. To suggest where the infection started and where it came from, two studies were carried out. The Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital performed the contact examination, and after a study of 1800 pages, the National Centre for Public Health concluded that there was no connection between the two institutions. That the patients [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 97 percent were dehydrated, 88 percent kahectized, and 44 percent had beds. It's a sign of total neglect. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, The fact that more than half of the people on Pesti Road are sick, 310 residents, 26 workers and 45 people are dead, cannot be without consequences. In the situation caused by the corona virus epidemic, the mayor's testament is not only worrying, it is completely unacceptable, and it is anti-Budapest. We are all interested in successful defence and rebooting of life in Budapest as well. That's why I don't think that's gonna happen again. I respectfully accept the Minister's reply, but I still cannot accept the mayor's attitude, neglect, neglect. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister. [[13.00]]
u2020-05-25-77	Thank you very much. The most important thing in my entire life was to save human life, simply because human life is one time, unrepeatable and irreplaceable. This would be highly expected of everyone, but in this situation, when an unprecedented national cooperation has developed, there are those who forget their elementary duties and let their fellow citizens, their compatriots and Hungarian people lose their lives. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-78	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Looks like the cucumber season has officially started on your Facebook page, but let's not settle the coronal virus epidemic so quickly. It is worth talking about some facts and situations. It is also said that in general, you do not relieve, but protect and keep in your government the ministers who are being attacked in public, which is why it may be worth looking at the situation of Miklós Kásler. You said to look at the situation that would have happened if it hadn't been Miklós Kásler, Minister of Health in Hungary. Now, let's play with that thought and see what could have happened. It wouldn't have been, for example, I think, in such a regrettable case, that after 200 hours of work, a nurse in Covid class brought home 109 thousand forints. It wouldn't have been an order from the minister to evacuate the hospitals, set the beds free, and then a month or a month and a half later he himself denies that he gave such an order, and puts it all in the hands of the doctors that the decision was theirs alone. Or, for example, it would not have been possible, and it would not have been, to fire two respected hospital directors right in the middle of the evacuation, causing uncertainty in the middle of the epidemic in one of the largest hospitals in the county and at one of the high points of supply. But we can also add to the account that there would not have been historical data or historical merit, which I think could have been better, that Hungary is the worst in the V4 comparison, 12.9 percent, while in Poland 5 percent, the Czechs 3.5 percent, but the Slovaks already mentioned today are 1.8 percent. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I do not wish to bring here the Minister's previous professional work, which does not belong here, but you, when you think about the Minister, must make your position clear. I would like to ask you to clarify your plan with Minister Miklós Kásler. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-25-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and ask the Prime Minister with respect for his reply. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-81	Dear fellow Member, There are many reasons why I have been condemned from the opposition side, but not being able to be clear and clear, I have never been convicted. The situation is as follows: I would also like to thank Minister Kásler for the fact that when the entire international health world was still napping, he felt, understood and passed through the government that there could be a serious epidemic here, and we must therefore act in a timely manner. The weeks and days won in the measures came from this recognition compared to other countries. Then, of course, the idea can also be played out from the fact that this has caused an unprecedented migration difficulty for the education system. But the thing is, if not perfectly, everyone praises the fact that our education system has been able to switch to digital education. Minister Kasler will also answer for this area. It's not the Jobbik that anyone who doesn't like it is sent away! The work here is based on merit and work. [[Defiance.]] Those who do well and do well will be kept. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-82	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-83	Thank you very much. Then, as I understand it, your community is where Miklós Kásler's work doesn't please you, and yet you keep him. Because most of the people and your voters feel that Miklós Kásler has ruined a lot of things. [[Gábor Varga: You're coming too!]] But, Prime Minister, this is your chance to improve certain things. The first, where there is a need to improve, is to appreciate and pay workers. Here is a problem that they will receive a gross allowance of HUF 500,000, which you mentioned. We should consider how this could be net. But it should also be borne in mind that in view of the difficult situation we are in now, a salary increase that was promised for this year could be brought forward, and that the next year, the 30 percent, should also be brought forward. And what is most clear is that there is a need for action, it is that these workers would not otherwise receive a hazard supplement when they work in the front line, in the front line, but there are cases like St. John's Hospital. Prime Minister, it's your responsibility to deal with these hospitals. Let the workers get their money, and let everyone respect their first-line work during the plague. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-25-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask for a one-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-85	In the past, Mr President, I have had the opportunity to cancel all the figures in terms of how much more we spend on health care compared to previous governments, how much investment was made, how wages were made. I think you know that, but you're still acting like a failure on the part of the government. In fact, you're making suggestions for us. We respectfully thank you and ask you not to. The reason for this is that you are a man who works in a medical undertaking after all. Now I'm going to read an ad for your company. If you speak French or Dutch and wish to work as a doctor in Belgium, this is an excellent opportunity. Professional prestige, predictable, predictable vision. This is the latest ad on the website. Gentlemen, it's nothing less than training doctors, trying to pay them, not saying they're well paid, it's far from the truth, but we'll do everything we can to pay them, then some entrepreneurs will come and take them with the knowledge capital that we have been able to pass on to them with the Hungarian taxpayers' money and take them to work abroad! It's okay, because it's a free business. But then he'll stand up in Parliament and give us advice on health care, maybe it's more than enough! [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-86	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Hollik, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question, "What does the government do for Hungarians across the border?" It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to inform you that Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Secretary of State for his reply because of his absence. [[István Hollik says yes.]] Thank you very much, the Member will indicate that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman István Hollik has the floor, please.
u2020-05-25-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP received the constitutional mandate to make up for the two decades of history deficit and to grant citizenship to all our stranded countrymen across the border. Although this law is about a legal act, the acquisition of simplified citizenship, but we knew on the national side that there was much more to it, so it became clear with this law that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, that is, the mother country can always be counted on by our countrymen living in the disconnected part of the country. When Fidesz-KDNP took over a bankrupt country from socialist government and, thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government, Hungary was on the path to economic development, it was possible to tighten up economic and cultural life with the part of the Hungarian population. Business development programme, economic development programmes of foreign Hungarian regions, and the establishment of a teaching workshop and economics helped to stimulate the economy. The application programme for Hungarian culture and education, the pre-school development programme in the Carpathian Basin and the Sándor Petőfi programme provided learning and cultural opportunities for hundreds of thousands of people. So we can say that for at least 90 years out of the last 100 years Hungarians across the border have suffered a disadvantage for their Hungarians, which is why Fidesz-KDNP considered it a moral and political goal for Hungarians to have an advantage beyond the borders in the last ten years. In view of all of this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the Government is doing in order to continue to help Hungarians across the border, especially in such an epidemiological situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.10]]
u2020-05-25-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by saying that we consider the foreign Hungarians, the foreign Hungarians, to be an emotional issue, because those who are important in joining together feel the importance of this, and who do not feel it, cannot be explained. This is why foreign Hungarians are not important to opposition parties. On the other hand, the Hungarian Government, honourable Member, can always count on the Hungarians from abroad. We never sacrifice them on the altar of world political games, even though there would be a demand for this, we never sacrifice them even if we are under great pressure, we always stand up for them, we always represent their interests, or they need help to improve their economic situation, whether in relation to the preservation of Hungarian identity, because for us, Hungarians from abroad are not just a number, they are not simple math. I would like to remind you that one of the great thinkers of the Gyurcsány Party, a Tamás Bauer in 2011, was able to break the line that before the Trianon decision the borders were more unfair than afterwards. They could have been a little fairer after that if they hadn't joined a few million Hungarians, but that's what Tamás Bauer said. I would also like to remind you that the Momentum party is constantly attacking the Hungarians from abroad, and does not miss an opportunity to take a stand against them. I would also like to remind you that Szabó Timea, whose interest we have already lost, but Szabó Timea attacked us because we helped Hungarians abroad with protective measures. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Hungarians from abroad cannot count on the branch organization, the satellite party of the Gyurcsány Party, the so-called Jobbik, because he chose Ferenc Jobbik Gyurcsány instead of the Hungarians from abroad, and Mr.Jakab Group leader, whose interest we also lost a few minutes ago when he attacked the Hungarians from abroad, proved that he was the spokesperson of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman István Hollik. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Yes, although it is regrettable, we must agree that there is still no national consensus on the issue of cross-border Hungarians, I regret to say that. And perhaps we also agree that what one expects from Ferenc Gyurcsány's party is to scare people beyond the border. That's what they did 15 years ago, that's what they did in the 2018 election. However, it is much more painful that the parties calling themselves progressive, progressive and also national have joined this line and are attacking Hungarians across the border; as Timea Szabó did, who was sorry for the fact that the government gave masks to Hungarians across the border; or the Momentum, which supported a Slovak party and a Romanian party instead of Hungarian parties across the border. And it is particularly painful and outrageous that Jobbik, which voted for this law in 2010, is now attacking economic incentives across the border. That's how Jobbik became a ballik, which is why it is important for the government to continue to stand up for Hungarians across the border. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-25-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the cross-border economic development programme, I would like to inform the honourable Member and the House that between 2016 and 2020, we have announced 54 thousand, almost 55 thousand, to be exact 54,944 winning applications, announced by the Hungarian Government, more than 127 billion forints of funding won, and thanks to this support we will, of course, continue this programme. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the old saying regarding foreign Hungarians is particularly important: hot heart, cold head. Of course, we strive for cooperation with neighbouring countries, because it is always better for Hungarians living there if there is a good relationship between the two countries than if it is wrong. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that to whom one of the Hungarians is not important, the other Hungarian will not be to whom the Hungarian from abroad is not important, neither will the Hungarian living here be to the opposition parties. [[Intercoms from the pro-government line: That's right!]] Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Székely wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will the capitalists pay for their unpaid income? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-95	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, despite the cosmetic data in Hungary, Hungarian workers are making very bad money, they are being paid shamefully. While Hungarian people live in 2-3 workplaces, with a lot of overtime, and in good times months to months, capitalists pocket amazing money without work. What am I talking about? About the fact that there's a source of income that capitalists get without work, and that's dividends. We are talking about income without work when you, Prime Minister, and government propaganda have been talking about a work-based society since 2014, when the slogan of the Prime Minister who does not pay aid is spoken every day during the social disaster, while we are not talking about aid, we are talking about normal wages. Prime Minister, you are taxing banks in times of crisis by giving them back that small money in five years and taxing the multinationals that carry thousands of billions of dollars each year by passing it on to the population, i.e. basically raising VAT. I think that in times of crisis, but beyond that, it's incredibly cynical. According to Yes Solidarity, this is not what should be done, it is not the people that must be exploited, but the dividends must be taxed, and this year, the capitalists must pay the amounts above HUF 48 million in excess of HUF 48 million, with an exceptional tax of 98 per cent, in other words! I would like to ask the Prime Minister when your order to introduce 98 percent of the dividend tax is expected. Thank you for your answer.
u2020-05-25-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-97	I am trying to find a balance, my honourable fellow Member, on the border between seriousness and frivolity, because I am surprised by what you have said. And why wouldn't we do that? If we look for the serious core of your contribution, then I can say that, of course, government philosophy also has expectations of capital owners, these are three things. The first is to pay taxes, the second is to comply with the rules, the third is to invest and create jobs so that everyone has a job. As far as the less serious part is concerned, I don't agree with any of your words, but in the unity front against George Soros, I see I can count on you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But after I suspected you were going to say something like that, I prepared a quote for you, as Mátyás Rákosi said in 53 on his party active in Budapest. This is how it sounds: . Our party has won the fight against the old order, the capitalists and the big owners. So if I take what you're saying seriously, then I can't help but think that your proposals are basically the implementation of communism in Hungary, which is a proposal to consider. [[Noise.]] But the Hungarians not only considered it, but also tried it. It didn't work. So I can't support your proposal for a re-introduction. Thank you very much. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-99	Prime Minister, I understand the joke, but it's about... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] We can even smile at each other, but what we are talking about in this country is that we all have to work to make sure that Hungarian people live better, not that your son-in-law or other billionaires actually get billions without work. At the moment, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are going down, otherwise it wasn't much better before the epidemic, but now with regard to the epidemic that the country and the world economy are in such a situation, I have mentioned and brought up the fact that it's time to finally give back a little bit of what the country has given them, and that is why 98 percent of the dividend tax should be applied, and finally not more and more taxes from the people. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-101	I also consider it important for citizens of Hungary who, for either philosophical or other reasons, have different views on how to organise Hungarian society, and there is room for left-wing thoughts. So I think that your suggestion, if we don't agree with it, and it actually freaks us out, can be taken seriously. [[13.20]] We must try, especially if a government is on a national basis, as we strive to do, to integrate it into the government's policy from this type of left-wing thinking as soon as possible. I thought we weren't so bad at this. My experience was that there are people with very left-wing convictions who support certain parts of government policy regardless of its philosophical foundations. For example, building a work-based society is, I think, acceptable to a left-wing man. Today, I recall that the dividend is subject to the same tax as Sja. I thought there were things that weren't, of course, equivalent to the communist revolution, but things that could be interpreted for a left-wing man from what we're doing. This is what I consider community service to be, and this is what I consider the pursuit of full employment. So regardless of the fact that I do not believe that we will be grinding in a mill in the next period, please appreciate the government's ambition to try to open up space for left-wing people in the organization of society. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Everyone is lying, aren't you? It's called the 2nd. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On 4 May, I asked the Minister about avoidable human tragedies. Correcting his first reply at that time, the Minister told me that every human tragedy is torturing and mourning all the patients who have lost their lives. Today he said here in Parliament that human life is one time and unrepeatable. On May 4th, I wanted to draw your attention to the death of a nursing father who was really infected with Covid, but died of a hospital infection. Then I tried to draw attention to the tragedy of a 33-year-old mother, which at that time didn't really work, Minister. Regina's tragedy is a warning to all of us, including yours. I was talking to your mother. One of the greatest tragedies a mother can go through when she loses her child. Regina's mother has been in health care for 39 years. This case you have told me has been seen in Hungarian health care and shows what mistakes have been made in the last few weeks and what wrong decisions have been made. I wanted to point out several times how many people suffer serious health damage just because they don't get the right health care and how many people lose their lives just because, let's say, they've been kicked out of the hospital, or they don't get it the same way Regina gets the right health care. Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for ordering an investigation after three weeks. I think that this should have been the first time I spoke in Parliament. Mr. Secretary. I'd like to ask you how you're not responsible for these cases. You told me a few weeks ago that you didn't know a single death. That's all they sent me. [[He's showing me papers.]] 13, 1 0 pages. I've been given cases where patients have suffered severe health damage or died. Minister, would you apologize and be responsible for these matters? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-05-25-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-25-105	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, You're asking me, Congresswoman, how do I lie? I can tell you I don't. That is exactly the situation that has arisen at the moment. What I said on May 4th, I'm holding it now. All my life, I've saved human lives, but I've never made human tragedies an advantage or political advantage, especially no joke, and I've never had any other ulterior motive with the tragedies. It is also as I said, that all human life is extremely important, and I have ordered the investigation for every comment received. The congresswoman is also wrong that I have just ordered an investigation into the tragic death of the young woman. This happened on May 12th, a good ten days ago. Of course, I don't want to get ahead of the authority's opinion, although I've read the medical history, and I think I can medically judge what happened. You're ahead of the authority opinion, even though you're short of six years of medical school, a few years of training and a few hundred unread professional books. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-106	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-25-107	You know, Minister, Regina's mother has been a nurse for 39 years, she works in the business, right, not as a doctor, but as a nurse. 39 years! He told me that the greatest tragedy he could have experienced was that from 22 to 1:00, until his daughter's death, he followed the rules that he had to follow as a medical worker. He believed that he worked with doctors and believed in health care, believed in you, that you would save your child the same way he saved the lives of thousands of people in 39 years. You have failed him, Minister. I'm not gonna make any accusations here, Minister. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] You've been playing war for months, soldiering. It's just, Minister, most wars are closed with losses where the civilian population suffers the greatest losses, and the Reginas are among them. This shouldn't have happened, there's no reason for that to happen, Minister. I'm glad they ordered the investigation on the 12th, but it would have been great if they had been notified to family members, too, because last week they didn't even have the final report in their hands, the Tatabánya materials were gone, they didn't get it. Minister, I am only asking you that the People's Health Centre, which falls under your authority, conduct the investigation in this case and in the other cases, in order to bring the truth to the deceased's family. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-25-108	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-25-109	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is as you mentioned, and there is a complete consensus between us that there is no greater tragedy for a parent than when he loses his child. That's why I have complete sympathy for the mother and the family. However, what you would suggest is that the central measures had a role to play in the young woman's death, this is not exactly true. I'm not ahead of the authority opinion, but I can safely tell you right now that there is no connection between the action and the death. I'd like to take that into consideration, please. I really appreciate your attention. Looks like the opposition had a Kasler day today. My birthday is March 1st, and my name day is Santa Claus. Thank you. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2020-05-25-110	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will the government take its share of the defence costs? It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-111	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! You're satisfied with the control of the epidemic, and I don't think you could be satisfied. And that is because the state's unpreparedness, your testament, has led the country to the fact that no decision has been made in time. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Let me remind you of some of these things. While you were talking about masks that never arrived in Hungary or masks that have never been seen on behalf of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs or the Minister, they were sent to health institutions by the Mayors of DK in Budapest instead of the government. (Development on the pro-government side. ) While you have thrown out thousands of patients in need of care from the hospital in one week, DK's Budapest mayors have given emergency home care aid to those who have been put in such a situation, instead of the government. [[13.30]] While you have uniquely given no forints to redundant workers in Europe in the last month, the mayors of Budapest have given them from their own municipal budgets instead of you. While you were playing soldier and deserted the country, the city leaders did their job quietly. In return, you gave restrictions to the municipalities and took the protection money from them. Prime Minister, I would be delighted if your government could finally take its part in the defense. So I'm asking you, when will the government take their part in defense costs and crisis management? When do people and local governments get what they deserve? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-25-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Prime Minister for the answer to this question. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-05-25-113	Mr President, My fellow Member! Maybe I feel the same way as you and everyone else, that we don't like to work for nothing. For an hour here, all I've done is give you the data and facts about the defense. It seems to me that this has not touched him, and it has cost the whole parliament an absurd drama. Well, please don't do this to us. As far as the specifics are concerned, a total of HUF 1345 billion has been transferred from the wallets to the protection of the economy. We have asked for everyone's consent, that is certainly true, even from political parties, and I do not think that our hats have been thrown to the sky, but half of their budget has been paid by political parties. As far as the local governments are concerned, I can say that for this year, it concerns around one-and-a-half percent of their budgets. Calling this bleeding, I don't think it can be taken seriously. However, if you have already used that word, I would like to remind you that you have not always been an opposition representative, and you have already been a pro-government representative. When you were a pro-government representative, you really bled out the municipalities. I know this because in 2010, when we defeated you in the election campaign and the people voted for us and the municipalities were left behind, we found a debt of HUF 1369 billion that we had to pay instead of the municipalities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-115	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I received the answer from Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga not only that 426 billion forints were spent uncertainly on masks, but also that he did not want to see me in Parliament. You, too, I see, would be much happier to have the police take you away from here. [[Delight and murmur in the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I'm not doing you this favor right now. Once again, when will the government play its part in crisis management? When are you going to pay the municipalities for the work they've done for you? When does the government pay support to families whose sick relatives were sent home from the hospital? And when will you govern, Prime Minister? Answer me, please. When's the government gonna do their part? When do people get what's coming to them, the authorities get what's coming to them? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-25-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-117	Although I have received the question, my fellow Member, I would like to inform you when and how long I am in government, that will be decided by the voters, and I would not pay any more attention to that. On the other hand, he had a sentence that was worth a quarter of a minute. That's what it sounded like for the police to take him away. Didn't you shoot people's eyes out? [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right!]] Is it not that tomorrow is the anniversary of a speech that triggered people's dissatisfaction after being made public, which you tried not to discuss with Parliament, but with sword-swording and eye-shooting? [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Applause in the pro-government benches.]] After all, while we are here, let us recall a few sentences of this important anniversary, so that it does not go unforgettable. You then supported a government, even you personally, whose head said after the election: "There are not many choices, because here comes a nasty word, not a little, very much. In Europe, no country has ever done anything like what we've done. Obviously, we've been lying for the last year and a half. It was perfectly clear that what we were saying was not true, and in the meantime, we didn't do anything for four years. It's on me, but you said so yourself. Then your Prime Minister went on to say, "You Members don't know any significant government measures that we can be proud of." What could be done in the last month, we did what could be done in secret in the months before, so that the last weeks of the election campaign wouldn't have papers that we were going to do. Congratulations! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: who are invisible to the government? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, From the outset, I would like to say that I am largely aware of the fact that the government does not believe in aid, but in job creation. I could accept that if at least the results of this show up, but they don't show. We can't see it, nor can we see the government's support for the hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who have lost their jobs. I would like to remind Minister that unemployment benefits are three months. Technically, the emergency's been going on for three months. At the moment, there are no job-creating investments that you promise. What about these hundreds of thousands of people? It is quite outrageous and repulsive, as the government has renounced hundreds of thousands of people, and now they have two choices: they can go to community service or go to the recruitment offices run by Szilárd Németh. I think this is unworthy of our country, it is unworthy of our fellow countrymen who have lost their jobs, and let us be honest: the weakest Kurzarbeit in Europe does not provide them with any solution at all. You can see the data, the number of unemployed is increasing every day, and no meaningful assistance has been given either to micro-enterprises, to self-employed people or to workers who have lost their jobs. Dear Minister, Army recruitment and community service will certainly not be enough. When are you going to start working for hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who have lost their jobs? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-05-25-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's question is given by Minister László Palkovics. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I'm going to have to repeat what's been said a few times, so if you'd note it, I don't think you'll have to ask the next time. Who can't be seen by the government? Everyone is visible to the government. The only reason I notice this is that we regularly hold video conferences with employers, workers and trade unions representatives every week, to discuss the current economic situation, the situation of unemployment, the situation of job creation and the material part of this, and if necessary to change it. I'd like to give you some numbers just so that this question doesn't come up again. About 97,000 people get job-seeking benefits, this 3-month unemployment benefit, 70 278 people get job-sponsored. We do not like this, we want to show them in other parts of the labour market. You mentioned that ours is the weakest Kurzarbeit in Europe. I don't know how well you know the structure of Kurzarbeit, but I don't think it's weak because it wasn't like that in 2008, and what we just created is kind of like German. The reason I don't think it's weak is because at the moment, 9447 companies have come forward. A large part of these are, by the way, 5298 micro-enterprises, so it's exactly the kind of business you have, and I think you understand how this works. I think that if so many businesses trust this, it can't be a worthless thing. By the way, 110,000 people are involved. [[13.40]] In relation to researchers: we support more than 10,000 people. At the moment, competitiveness-enhancing investment proposals have protected 79,858 people from their jobs, and besides, the catalysm, which has already been done in the first place, also applies to 151 thousand people. So I think these are very good numbers. We just announced at the beginning of last week a HUF 80 billion new job creation support for 70,000 people. It's not public employment, it's a very different kind of support. I think they show that the government is taking care of everyone; but just to say a few things, we are not just using the classic tools: for students who can't go to college now because they're studying from home, we created a Student Loan Plus construction. More than tens of thousands have applied to finance their lives from this, of course with no interest rate, or a course [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This will then continue, which will replace 61 886 people for digital training [[Szabó Timea: He's been talking for two and a half minutes.]] which, by the way, I will finish immediately, thank you, and I think that it will not only give me a job, but also a job. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-122	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-25-123	Thank you very much for the floor. The fact is that it is clear from his reply that he could not give a meaningful answer, and I hope that in his rejoinder this will be done, that the emergency has been announced since 11 March, at the moment, today is 25 May, and I think it is clear that the three months that the Prime Minister and several members of the government have referred to in relation to unemployment aid will be in two weeks' time. I would like to ask you that the hundreds of thousands of people who lost their jobs in catering, tourism, commerce, service industry, went to unemployment benefit, and next week, in two weeks, their unemployment allowance expires, to whom and where they can turn in substance. Is there a form of support that provides support for their daily livelihood, regardless of the jobs that are not yet present today? 'Cause you've got to see for yourself, these people are out of control in that situation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and they would rightly expect the government to receive substantial assistance. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-125	Unfortunately, I can't repeat the two minutes again in a minute, so I wouldn't even start. I think that Congressman was diligent in taking notes, look again at his notes. We have excellent websites, where, by the way, these people appear in large numbers on a daily basis. Just to try to show a ratio here, who show up at the employment office every day and show up, these numbers are lower than the number of jobs that are actually created. I think it's a good song. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-126	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Head of the Szabó Timea Group and Congressman Bence Tordai, the notary of the Parliament, the representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Head of the Group, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-127	Thank you for the floor. Minister, first of all, shame on you. I'm sorry, we're talking about family tragedies, deaths, miserable lives forever, and you're kidding about your birthday and your name day? ! Do you think that's gonna be funny for people whose relatives have died now or because of inadequate disease management, or because they were sent home on your sole order? Are you gonna think it's funny that people who, say, were sent home from the OORI after a stroke, and because of their infirmity, they won't be able to track him down or talk to him? Do you think this whole thing is funny?And you're not going to take responsibility for anything, but you're going to get the doctors to decide? Really? ! Then why did the internal investigation show that neither Péter Cserháti nor István Cernavölgyi made any mistakes under the internal investigation when they resisted your stupid decision? So you're gonna put them back in their position? Minister, I'm not going to ask you a professional question, because we're not going to get an answer, but the way you deal with all the opposition issues, that's the last thing you're gonna do. I'm sorry, is it the only person who can ask you a question who has a five-year medical degree? We are not sent here, but we represent hundreds of thousands and millions, those who do not receive health care because of you, because you cannot even govern a regulation, even if there is a regulation, you instruct the profession by letter in an unprecedented manner. Any doctor we ask hasn't done that in the last 30 years. Minister, when you take responsibility for the deaths of hundreds of people in the plague and the unhappiness of crippled families, the tragedy of your decision, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Are they suffering now? Answer me clearly and don't humor me, please. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-25-128	Madam Member, a heated and offensive question is never a sign of strength. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So I'm gonna give it to you right now... [[Szabó Timea: Neither is denial.]] Now you're done asking questions two minutes ago. [[Szabó Timea: Some people spoke for two and a half minutes.]] I now give the floor to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-25-129	Mr President, Dear House, I really listen with extreme discipline to the sentences of the congresswoman, which could be kept very short: almost none of her remarks are true. There was no internal investigation in any of the hospitals, my letters are being forged, they're being communicated to the press, and I could continue the line. But here's the thing I'm offering you: you don't know how to throw words in my head so hot that I'd let myself be provoked. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-130	Thank you very much, Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder for the woman in charge of the faction. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-131	I'm sorry, Minister, it's almost like a Muppet Show you're doing here. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] We ask you a question, and you say we can't provoke you. We don't provoke him, we ask questions we don't get any answers to. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And now we have an interesting answer. After the hospital directors and the doctors, the press are to blame, apparently. Why don't you show me, Minister, the only letter the press has forged, okay? ! 'Cause it's a pretty serious claim that someone rewrote the letters you sent from the press and published it. No! These decisions were made by you, and you have to take responsibility. Don't look at the clock. I'll finish it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Tell me, Minister, when you leave the head of the EMMI, because as long as you're in charge of health care, millions of people here are in danger of patient care. Answer my question. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-05-25-132	I'll give the Minister the floor for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-133	Madam Congresswoman began her one minute to say I'm sorry. I'm not mad. Thank you. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-25-134	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: how do the opposition-led municipalities take part in crisis management? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[For signal:]] I see that Congressman tells me that he accepts the person who is responding, so the word is Mr László Böröcz's. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The last few months have put Hungary and the Hungarian people through great trials, and perhaps we can say with caution that the first battle against the epidemic has been won, and we should now thank the people in the front line for their sacrifice and for the discipline of the Hungarian people. The government has given priority to protecting jobs and supporting businesses and families in the fight against the epidemic. On the other hand, the left-wing parties did not take advantage of the historic opportunity to finally join forces and help the government to resolve the crisis, but they still attacked the government on every front for political gain, pettyly. Meanwhile, the left-wing municipalities concluded millions of advisory contracts, while firings, wage cuts and cuts followed each other. Unfortunately, there is nothing new under the sun around the Balliberal House, as crisis management is synonymous with austerity for them. Unfortunately, Sándor Márai's words are also real in today's Hungarian political context:. It will be difficult to get rid of the Communists, because no one is as dangerous as the beneficiary of a fallen idea, who no longer protects the idea, but the spoils. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13.50]] So the advisory contracts are concluded, but they put people on the street, and they reduce the pay of the workers. Let me give you some examples. The main prize fighter is Péter Niedermüller, who, as mayor of Erzsébetváros, reduces the pay of preschoolers, but in the meantime, in some wonderful way, there is money for 30 million HUF for Gyurcsány's lawyer, the VAT and tax fraud Czeglédy Csaba. But I could say the same: András Pikó took the apartment of health workers, policemen and firefighters in Józsefváros. Or let's look at Hódmezővásárhely, where Mayor Péter Márki-Zay left his own salary unchanged, while firing people and reducing workers' salaries. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary how the opposition authorities are taking their share of the crisis management. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I were to reply briefly, I would be able to tell you that the municipalities are doing their part in a mixed way. The situation is that protection against a pandemic requires full national cooperation, both for the preservation of lives and for the protection of jobs. This national cooperation is reflected in many things. The transfers of powers made possible by the special legal order have also shifted greater responsibility to the government, but the mayors leading the local governments and the mayor in Budapest have more responsibility and responsibilities, i.e. rights and obligations. In economic terms, we also see signs of shared burden. We had to create a new framework for common responsibility. The government itself decided on transfers and the establishment of a protection fund against the epidemic, in which it asked for solidarity contributions from multinational companies, representatives of political sides, municipalities and banks, and so it was restored, thus putting together the fund that helped us to protect the municipalities. So that's the bright side. There are, there are settlement leaders, there are local governments, there are politicians who support health care, the social sphere or law enforcement workers, and they help protect against the epidemic, and this is how we have been able to achieve the results that have already been said here in Parliament today, that we have managed to deal with the first wave of the epidemic effectively in an international comparison. Unfortunately, not always, and in every situation, the overall picture is so serene. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Böröcz. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your reply. The problem is, after all, that although, as has been said in today's debate, the motor vehicle tax has affected around 1-1.5% of their budget, the opposition and left-wing authorities are constantly saying that for what they have no money, they can conclude ten million advisory contracts, as Péter Niedermüller did, and he is not the only one. And he did so by not telling me that Csaba Czeglédy had also concluded a 16 million forints advisory contract in January. Taking advantage of the crisis situation under the special legal order, Csaba Czeglédy and Csaba entered into an order contract of exactly HUF 29 million, while at the same time firing people from their jobs, reducing salaries, and having the nerve to reduce the wages of preschoolers and, for example, physical workers in Miskolc. This, by the way, is simply unacceptable and outrageous to use the crisis for petty political purposes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-25-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As I said, the situation is not always this good, because what we see from left-wing mayors, city leaders and politicians is that we are accused of dictatorship building, while otherwise the Capital Assembly does not meet in the capital. While we are here in Parliament every week, despite the fact that we have been told to do the opposite, the Mayor makes the decisions in the Metropolitan Assembly. We were accused of negligence, while the home of the capitalised elderly people on the road to Pesti has unfortunately become the largest focal point of the coronal virus epidemic, despite the fact that law enforcement and health services, so government intervention, have tried to do everything to make sure that this does not happen. But the negligence that came up there, in the context of which there is no way around the issue of political responsibility, unfortunately, has made this situation a focal point. Legal oversight is exercised by the metropolitan and county government offices. In relation to the proportionality, legality and necessity of all decisions of the local government, the appropriate investigation is ongoing. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Members of László Lukács György and Tamás Csányi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I'm happy to continue Kasler's Day, and I'm also glad that Minister has stayed. I promise to be constructive in this question, which lies before us, because there are many questions about education, and I am interested in this. As is well known to everyone, Hungarian public education institutions have been closed since 16 March, and the digital curriculum has been in place, and how this digital curriculum works is not primarily up to you, Minister, but rather on teachers and parents. Parents became obsessive educators from one moment to the next, while teachers had to become IT gurus from one moment to the next and pick up the pace to implement the digital curriculum. Your ministry, on the other hand, has been a lousy duck on this whole issue, even though since 2016, government commissioner has been overseeing this area in the person of Dr. Judit Bertalan Czunyi. Please explain to us what his task was, how the government commissioner has helped the digital working order in the past. However, I would also like to raise another question concerning a leaked draft regulation. On this basis, I would like to ask you two very important, structurally sensitive questions to clarify. On this basis, you want to abolish the division between the lower and the upper classes on the basis of this draft regulation. What professional reasons do you have for this, Minister? I'd like the answer, please. You would also like to remove the table linking education to the filling of teaching posts. I wonder what professional motives lie behind this. We are also very curious about this, as we might think that you have not been able to make this excellent profession attractive enough with the teacher's career model, and the teachers are missing from the whole system; you may also be able to tell us how many people are missing. Is this how you want to make up for the burning shortage of teachers with workers without adequate qualifications? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-25-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give you the floor for the answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-05-25-145	Thank you very much for the congressman's question. All I can say is that the Hungarian education system has shifted from Friday to Monday to digital education, which, I think, is an extraordinary success. Obviously, the training, enthusiasm, and expertise of teachers played the main role in this, not allowing siren voices to take leave, but taking their time to educate children. It also fits into this line of graduation, which, I believe, was also an exam of the Hungarian education system, in extreme conditions, and the exam was excellent. For this to be done, there was also a need for the technical tools that Hungarian families had, the schools had, the teachers had, and the students had. Obviously, the Secretary of State for Public Education, the Education Office, took a decisive part in this coordination. [[14.00]] How did the Minister's Commissioner participate in this work? I believe that as a coordinator and developer of ideas for further development of education and public education. I have it here, and I would be very happy to send it to Congressman about the conditions. I don't have time, I have three seconds, but I'll get it to you. [[Tamás Csányi: I'll go get it!]] You can look into it, you can find it on the portal of the institutions listed above. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-146	Thank you, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Tamás Csányi. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-147	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you very much for the answer, Minister, but I do recall that on March 13th there were siren voices on Kossuth Radio that whispered in the teachers' ears that they would not be paid if there were no education and the schools were closed. With regard to the Commissioner of Government, I say that I accept such microphone-close sentences, although I can't decide what task Dr. Judit Bertalan has done since 2016 and how he has changed our school system to the difficulties of digital training. However, I can very much see what I did in my previous question that you did not give a clear answer on the table and on the non-qualified teachers or workers in the context of public education. Are there such siren sounds as we rise to the heights of Odyssey that, yes, you will allow the pedagogical education of unqualified workers? This is a very important question, please answer it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-25-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Miklós Kásler has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-149	Thank you very much. Another important question from the first part is whether the number of teachers is sufficient or not. I think, referring to many published statistics, that, in addition to the declining number of students, there is a significant shortage of teachers in Hungary, I do not have this first comment. It was mentioned that siren sounds were heard on 13 March. That wasn't a tenor, I didn't make a statement, I don't know who made those comments. [[Tamás Csányi: Prime Minister!]] The Minister's Commissioner didn't have a job. [[István Németh Szilárd: The Prime Minister did not say such things!]] To change public education and education. I want you to read your appointment document. [[Tamás Csányi: Then what was it?]] It is clearly marked on its appointing document and has performed those tasks. And thank you for finishing your holiday under decent circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-150	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Simicskó, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. [[Tamás Csányi approaches Miklós Kásler, then Miklós Kásler gives him the documents.]] Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[Dr. István Simicskó on signal:]] Mr. Congressman points out to me that he accepts the person of the response, so the floor belongs to Congressman István Simicskó, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the first phase of protection against a coronal virus epidemic has been completed. Obviously, we all see and know how and how it ended: thanks to rapid government measures and thanks to people's law-abiding behaviour, this first stage has been successfully and successfully completed. Obviously, the restrictions imposed, which were necessary and justified and concerned the protection, safety and health of people, also affected public transport, including in Budapest, nationwide and everywhere: timetables, flight numbers, protective masks. During the period of emergency, many people, in many workplaces, switched to work at home, work at home, and our education system also switched to teaching classes in digital form, and essays. I have often tried to help my children myself, it was not a small challenge, but our Hungarian education system also tested successfully. On certain inter-local flights, I have to say, there has been a significant reduction in passenger traffic as a result of this, of course, as school attendance and restrictions on access to work have all brought about this, and therefore these restrictive measures have been completely justified and justified. However, the new phase of protection will allow transport to be reorganised and gradually re-launched, both in terms of train and bus transport, while complying with certain security measures, of course. Dear Secretary of State, I have two questions. One of my questions is the rate at which Community transport will be restarted and what safety standards can be used for each Community transport instrument. Secondly, how will passengers be informed? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda will answer, he will give the answer.
u2020-05-25-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When the Koron virus exploded in Hungary, the government took measures in its time to protect human life and health. This was also the case in the area of public transport, where flights switched to school holidays. It is regrettable that this was done with a minor error in the capital, since there was a serious problem, it seems that the development of the right timetable and the health of the people, the capital, have been compromised by the timetable that was first introduced. Honourable Congressman, The first battle has indeed been won, and Hungary has surpassed European countries in a better financial situation in the effectiveness of defence. It was a pleasure indeed to experience that, in this difficult situation, Hungarian people can unite and everyone can help where they can. However, it was regrettable, of course, to experience that the left-wing opposition pulled itself out of joint defence, responsibility and work. Once again, they showed how much trouble people can count on them. Honourable Congressman, Life is gradually restarting, but the danger has not yet passed. The epidemiological alert must continue to be maintained, the operational tribe will continue to work, the appropriate protection distance in social contacts must also be respected, and the elderly should continue to be monitored gradually, so that, for example, the time band associated with the purchase remains. The lifting of restrictions, the new phase of protection will also allow the reorganization and gradual re-launch of train and bus transport, so we will establish a flexible temporary epidemiological agenda that will enter into force in the summer, and in order to protect health, the masking and protection of safety will be mandatory on flights. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-25-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr István Simicskó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-155	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, We all see that, thanks to effective and effective protection, the first stage, the first stage, has been completed, and indeed, in most workplaces, they return to pre-poverty work and work rather than home work. In June, schools still have a digital working schedule, but individual and small group occupations can start and start, and to some extent, with due caution, we understand that summer camping is also partially restored to children's great joy. I think it is important for the government to give the necessary information to people, know what is expected in local transport, trains and elsewhere, and it is obviously important that, in addition to the operational tribe, here in Parliament, we also talk about what measures will remain, what measures will change in the coming period; it is certain that these measures are about safeguarding people's health. I trust a gradual, cautious return to normal can happen as soon as possible. Thank you again for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The first battle was indeed won against the Crown Virus, thanks to effective government measures, but perhaps even more important, because of the patience and attention of the Hungarian people. In a difficult situation caused by the coronal virus, what we Hungarians can do if we unite. We also thank the first-line fighters on this front for their sacrifices, but thank the Hungarian scientists and professionals for their efforts to control the epidemic, and it may be worth mentioning that we thank the police, the soldiers, the carriers, the suppliers and the sellers in particular for their standing. There is, of course, a long list of people to thank. [[14.10]] Honourable Congressman, Returning to a Restarted Life Is Important [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is also the agenda that we have just decided on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[Agnes Kunhalmi nodds.]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi will take the floor.
u2020-05-25-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Vocational training centres should prepare a qualification system for workers by deadline, in accordance with the Government Decree, based on clear questions from a relatively objective table for all workers. Accordingly, wages for the new employment relationship will be established. There is serious concern that public knowledge teachers who work in the field of vocational training, if they are covered by this qualification system, will have little wage increases in this evaluation and qualification system, as this system is not for them. There are a number of points and criteria that are not applicable to them. As long as a teacher, let's say, visits the workshop, and gets a point, as appropriate, a colleague, a teacher of public knowledge may receive zero points here. That is why I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how the classification of public knowledge teachers involved in vocational training is to be resolved. Are you setting up a separate evaluation system for their rating? How do they secure the promised 30 percent wage increase? Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2020-05-25-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-25-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us start by saying that the epidemic has shown how much there is a need for a skilled workforce with a competitive response to current demand. That is why we are making vocational training more practical and attractive for young people and also for teachers and educators. I was very pleased to hear that, as if you had acknowledged it in your question, by the way. Allow me also to make a slight reference to the difference between a significant increase of 30 percent in vocational education and training during this period, whereas during the crisis, the socialists took their wages. That's a significant difference. Let me also say that, as of July, the wages of teachers and educators in vocational training increase by an average of 30 percent. We provide 35 billion forints annually for this, and the measures will create a performance-based, competitive, motivating pay system. And in such a way that no one gets worse, everyone gets better. Anyone who teaches at present will surely increase their salary, no reduction. And the pedagogical evaluation is not unprecedented. The criteria that have already been in place cover the entire spectrum of teaching and teaching work, and can be applied to both public knowledge teachers, professional teachers and educators, and allow the free wage bargaining that the new legislation will allow for can indeed be achieved. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-25-163	This crisis has indeed shown much, but we have seen in the last ten years that teachers have raised their wages, and at the end of the day the wages of many people have fallen. So let's hope that people in vocational training don't do that. You know, there's no conflict between us about the need for vocational training in Hungary. Of course. But we need good vocational training, which is based on the fact that these young people who choose this area... [[Dr. Balázs Orbán is moving out of the room. The president's ringing the bell.]] Did I knock?
u2020-05-25-164	No.
u2020-05-25-165	Good.
u2020-05-25-166	I'm sorry, I told the Secretary of State that he's still needed.
u2020-05-25-167	I see. I'm sure a lot of people think so. [[Defiance. Dr. Balázs Orbán will take his place as Secretary of State again.]] Therefore, good vocational training is needed, and the basis for this is that teachers of public education also deserve to be recognised in vocational training, to go on the field, to teach a lot of people, to go there, to teach young people, to be attractive. It is not enough for you to say that we hope that your wages will increase rather than fall. Thank you.
u2020-05-25-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, and I would like to point out that I have indirectly interfered with your speech, but that was not my intention, but that is the intention of the Secretary of State, which, in my view, must remain here for an answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Balázs Schanda has the floor now. Here you go. Tamás Schanda, I'm sorry. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-05-25-169	Thank you very much. I listen to everything. [[Defiance.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, let me stress that there is no such thing as the power of the law to make a person's wages less and not more, honourable Members, just because you indicated in your reply that such a thing had occurred. This can't happen, we have clearly said this and described it in the legislation that you unfortunately didn't accept and support, even though it is precisely about how the Hungarian vocational training system will be more effective, competitive and more practice-oriented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to the criteria, it is possible to evaluate public knowledge teachers and professional teachers on an equal footing, as it is educational and pedagogical work; and the experience of the evaluations so far shows that the teachers of public knowledge are not at any disadvantage, and the heads of institutions have properly assessed them by recognising their duties. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-25-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: who will be next week? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Minister of State to respond. I respectfully ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[You take Anett's nod.]] The congresswoman says she'll take it. Congresswoman Anett has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Please allow me to react in an unusual way to what Secretary Tamás Schanda has just said in a reply. You have said, Mr Secretary of State, that the opposition has pulled itself out of crisis management, but I would say that there are now, in general, three million of our compatriots living in a settlement whose elected leader has come out of the opposition's benches, and this is what my originally planned question is related to. I think that these local leaders have been very good, Mr. Secretary of State, despite the fact that the central decisions of the government have taken away the local part of the local government, the tax on motor vehicles, the revenue from parking, the normative support of the minimum wage, the use of the business tax has been labelled, and an epidemic prevention contribution has also been imposed. I would like to talk about the special economic zones in this speech, Mr Secretary of State, because this is the most recent example of you going against all modern, European state-organization and administrative standards. They do not understand or want to understand the principle of subsidiarity; they do not see that the solution of problems should be referred to the nearest administrative level. This is also the case with improvements, maintenance work and responses to local challenges. On the other hand, you, Mr Secretary of State, have done that every week, rights, powers, resources have been transferred, funds have been taken from local authorities and from the actors you were expecting in crisis management. The fact is, for a decade there has been a systematic withdrawal of rights from social groups. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State who will be in charge of this process next week. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-25-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-25-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for your lesson being more accurate than mine. Congresswoman, there is a fundamental difference in perspective between us. You are talking about the fact that it is constantly apparent that the government that took office after 2010 is punishing the municipalities along the lines of a strategy. [[14.20]] If I rely on my perception of reality, which is supported by numbers and statistics, then what I see is that, on the one hand, we have freed the municipalities from almost HUF 1,400 billion of debt accumulated in connection with the operation, we have taken over tasks that are undoubtedly difficult to finance, but in addition to getting rid of the debt, besides taking over certain tasks, they still receive about 70-80 percent of the state aid that is always changing, and otherwise their own revenues, without having to take revenue-enhancing measures, so, let's say, tax has doubled since 2010. So the thing is, if you say that the Fidesz government is punishing local governments, then I want everyone to be punished by the Fidesz government in this way, and everyone else to be punished in this way, because, in fact, the municipalities, whether they are pro-governments, opponents or self-governments, are in a much better position financially than they were in 2010. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And it is true that, in the spirit of sharing the burden, the government has asked for a maximum of one percent of the available resources to be submitted to the disease control fund. But he did the same thing to political parties, to himself, to banks and multinational companies. I think it's totally okay. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Anett. Here you go.
u2020-05-25-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I know that we do not agree with each other in terms of social organisation principles, which is why we are sitting on these two different sides of this horseshoe, but these last few weeks, because of the economic and social consequences of the human epidemic, have shown that these principles, translated into practice, have meant that significant resources have been taken from the municipalities, while they have otherwise been burdened with the tasks that they have had to perform for our countrymen, who have lost their jobs, who have become ill, who have been waiting for help in the quarantine. That's okay, but in addition to these withdrawals, they've created an unstable budget. And the issue of special economic zones is now moving on, practically legitimizing that it should be a player other than local authorities that is able to disposal revenues generated by otherwise job-creating investments. This is not permissible because the opportunity is being taken away from local development as well. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-25-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congresswoman! Once again, municipalities are in a much better position in 2020 than they were in 2010. Unfortunately, this fact, on which we cannot argue, can only begin our discussion of philosophy. You mentioned the issue of special economic zones, which is before the House as a bill. There is also a misunderstanding, I think, because the state does not take anything away from the municipalities. There is the fact that some of the revenues due to municipal authorities are used in other municipalities, with the help of the county authorities. Therefore, if only one municipality has benefited from an investment so far, while using the infrastructure in the territory of several municipalities, we should eliminate this unfair situation, and the county authorities should continue to be able to decide on the proportion and use of tax revenues in the municipalities affected by the investments. I think it's fair, and I'm gonna say it again, it's okay. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-25-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Given that no faction has made use of the possibility to ask questions, this item will not be discussed today. We now have speeches after the agenda in a five-minute time frame. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró first. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For the protection of the rights of murderers, freedom of speech is again restricted by Facebook, when, for example, we share the invitation to the veneration event of the Hungarian Movement, because we are the only party to hold such an event in memory of the victims of the double murder in Deák Square. Hungarian reality cannot be described on Facebook, only described. That's what I'm trying to do right now. It seems that the liberal opinion directory that has been developed does not fit into the great Hungarian reality, but does not fit into the worldview that they are trying to force on Hungarian society. On Thursday at 18:00 we will gather in front of the Dohány Street headquarters of the National Roma Municipality, and we will join in the candlelighting of the cheerleading groups to pay our respects and express our solidarity to the families of the deceased. The liberal press doesn't just follow Facebook's practice, because of course you can't hide such a murder, but at the same time they're trying to make an equal signal between the victims and the killers. This misinformation, for example, is taken to a peak by the Index when it says that two companies with a largely criminal record have collided. But not only does the liberal press report such amazing slides about this quite simply lynching case, but, for example, the Metropolitan Attorney General's Office is also able to write in an official statement that two young companies were fighting. No, no, fellow Members, that is not what happened. Two young Hungarians went out on an everyday evening in Budapest to celebrate, and they were both lynched, killed with brutal cruelty. It's not about two companies fighting, it's about lynching. And it's outrageous that you can't say it on Facebook or publish it in the liberal press, but we can read it even in a statement from the Metropolitan Attorney General. 2020 In Hungary we have come to the point that not only in Borsod villages old people have to spend the last years of their lives in fear, but in downtown Budapest we have to protect our young people, protect them, fear for them, because there are groups that think that killing is cool. The no-go zones are now established not only in the cities of Western Europe, but also in large cities with immigrants, but also in Hungary. We also need to talk about the aspect of punishment, my fellow Members, because you know how old the perpetrator will be when he is released? Thirty-five. At the age of 35, a man who committed this brutally cruel murder could be on the loose. Is that okay? You can't be sentenced to life imprisonment at the moment, who wasn't 20 years of age at the time of the crime. For this reason, the depraved killer can enjoy all the joys of free life again in up to 16 years, eight months. At 35, he can walk among us again and hunt anyone. This is an extremely outrageous regulation, a violation of the sense of justice of all our sober-minded compatriots, and therefore our homeland Movement is the Btk. It will initiate a change and tightening up so that we can enforce the truth against these criminals as well. So we wait for everyone on Thursday from 18:00 to Dohány Street, and then we join the fans in lighting a candle to express our favour together. Two young boys went to celebrate on an ordinary evening in Budapest, and they were both brutally murdered. God rest Gergő and Laci. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-25-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Today I have to talk about a government-designed measure that, if it does, will have unforeseen consequences for my city, Pécs. At the same time, this case is far from national, because it is a restriction on the university, and not only the University of Pécs, but also the government wants to divert significant resources from many other universities in the country. What exactly is this about? Last week, we discussed the amendment of the Act on Higher Education at the Parliament meeting, and then I asked Mr Bódis, State Secretary, a question about a subject that had been published only in the press, in the form of a rumor. I specifically asked him that he was right that universities would also be affected by the brutal government restrictions that have so far affected the municipalities, the cities. At the time, Mr Secretary of State admitted that it was painful for him that his territory would be subject to such restrictions, but he must acknowledge it and agree that in such a situation, at a time of economic crisis, everyone must bear the burden and indeed the government is planning concrete measures. What was recognised as Secretary of State was that the government was planning to withdraw HUF 15 billion from several universities, and this would affect the University of Pécs by about HUF 2 billion, i.e. HUF 2 billion from supplies and funding funds, the government intends to transfer HUF 2 billion to the Economic Protection Fund. [[14.30]] We believe that this measure is unacceptable, not because there is no need for a general burden and no need for job creation and the need to support the Economic Fund with as much resources as possible, but it can be quite clear in recent times that the government is not taking measures of a kind which, we can say, would draw up a responsible attitude in the current situation. More than HUF 80 billion were transferred from the Economic Protection Fund to the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which we know is not supported in any way in terms of the Hungarian national interests. So we can say that in the budget there would be the resources needed for job creation, economic protection measures, there is no need for the brutal austerity that first involved the municipalities, and now we can hear about it, including universities. And we know that, and we also need to talk about this, that the resources or restrictions that have been a great deal of debate today, although they are directly damaging cities and municipalities, but the effects will be felt by all Hungarian people, and it is quite clear that these will be extremely negative and serious effects, because these cities, these municipalities, which have to face these brutal restrictions, provide basic public services that are extremely important to all people. And if, in many cases, it is difficult for municipalities to face these restrictions, they will not be able to provide them fully, as will the renovation of roads, the maintenance of kindergartens and the maintenance of public transport. We have now faced the fact that these brutal restrictions can reach universities. Let it be clear to everyone that the government policy of the last many years has already caused major damage to such rural universities, especially in terms of student numbers, and this is obviously in many respects related to the issue of fundamentally poorly solved or unsolved funding. From the University of Pécs we can say for sure that this brutal withdrawal of HUF 2 billion will not be possible for this very important institution. A few years ago, although a few hundred million forints of austerity affected the university, it also meant a very serious wave of dismissal. We can say that the University of Pécs has great significance in the life of the city, we can say that the fate of Pécs and the university is intertwined. The University of Pécs is practically a city in the city, it plays a huge role not only in its direct function in university education, but as an employer, as an economic operator, as the most important player in scientific and cultural life, the operation of the university basically determines the future of the city. By far, the university is the largest employer, employs more than 7,000 people, employs 1,800 teachers and researchers. Unfortunately, what measures have been taken can be measured over the last ten years by the formation of student numbers. In 2009, there were 30,000 students at the university, and today this number has fallen to less than 20,000. So the number of university students has decreased by more than 10,000. It can be quite clear to everyone that if this 2 billion HUF withdrawal takes place towards the University of Pécs, it will also mean a huge wave of dismissals, and this will cause little repairable damage to the university's operation. Therefore, we are very determined to seize all possible political means to withdraw this measure from the government, so we are initiating negotiations with the university leadership, with the Rector, under the leadership of the local government in Pécs, and we are very confident that all pro-government and opposition representatives will join the petition that we have launched in order to ensure that all residents of the city can express their objection to the planned ignominious measures. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-05-25-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, Member István Simicskó has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Kelenföld railway station was opened in 1861. From a railway point of view, we can also say that Budapest started as a western gate to its catchment area. At the time, around 1400 people lived in the area only, since then the capital XI. The district of Újbuda has more than 150,000 inhabitants, and it would be the fourth most populous city in Hungary if it were a separate and independent city. The most populous district of Budapest is a very serious area of attraction. In 1937, when the construction of the Petőfi bridge was completed, the importance of the Kelenföld station continued to increase and thus became a railway station. A few months ago, Minister Gergely Gulyás announced that the government will save the old building of the old Kelenföld railway station, and by rebuilding and transforming the overall technical review of the historic area, a new function will be assigned to this building. The planning process is underway. It is a very welcome fact that the government saves this value, the less welcome it is that the new municipal administration, the mayor's office, does not support it, and the previous commitment it has made in a material sense has been withdrawn, so the government must do this work. In the first step, obviously, the design must take place. We're talking about a railway station. They used to call it a boarding house. He has more than 130 years of history. I believe that this past alone predestilates the people who live there and all of us, to get some function, to renew this building, and to enrich the cityscape elements of the area with a function, an external facade and internal content, renewed as an old cityscape element of Kelenföld. The Transport Museum will help in this endeavour, and, of course, it will function once again as a kind of community and meeting point, but it will give a number of exhibitions suitable and worthy conditions and places on which different railway terrain tables, railway models and train models will be presented, which will definitely be considered a family-friendly exhibition. I believe that the Hungarian and international examples are excellent evidence of the fact that renovating out-of-use former station buildings will allow the creation of cultural centres that are once again popular. In Brussels, the Saerbeck station, where the Belgian railway museum is now located, is Train World, but there are many of these positive examples of building old buildings into cultural and community space. Among other things, the Horse Railway Building in Zugliget and the Royal Castle in Gödöllő have been renewed in this way, to the great pleasure of the people in the area. I hope that the completion of the design works and the start of the renovation works will enrich not only NewBuda, but also Budapest, and many foreigners will also visit this museum. I hope that it will also be an attractive meeting point for Kelenföld and New Buda families, the families of South Buda, and that the cultural value of Budapest as a whole will also increase. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-25-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, Vice-President of the Parliament, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-185	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to talk about the generation that built the country with its own two hands after World War II and after the 1956 War of Independence. Today, most of them are pensioners, who, after their years of work, rightly expect to spend their old age in good financial conditions, peacefully and peacefully. However, this legitimate expectation often falls short of reality. A third of the pensioners live below the minimum living age, and at least half of them are considered poor. In such a situation, a caring state takes a number of measures to improve the lives of older people, but, unfortunately, Hungary cannot be called a caring state from this point of view since 2008. [[14.40]] This was when the situation of the elderly and pensioners began to deteriorate. As known, after the Socialist Party introduced the 13th month pension, it took it after a few years, then the retirement age was raised, and it continued under the current government, when the private pension fund of HUF 3000 billion was taken away, the retirement and early retirement pension was abolished, along with the abolition of the employer's pension contributions. These negative measures could be taken, but let us look at what can be done for a caring state so that the purchasing value of pensions does not decrease or even keep pace with the rise in wages. It is well known that there is a pension increase linked to general inflation in Hungary today. The continuous impairment of pensions is due to the fact that inflation on the basis of the retired consumer basket should be the basis for the increase in pensions. Therefore, many people are receiving humiliatingly low pension benefits that do not allow basic livelihoods. While the gap is increasing, the rate of increases can actually only be felt by those receiving luxury pensions when pensions are raised by 2-3 percent per year. Jobbik therefore considers it essential to introduce an immediate, favourable, differentiated pension increase for those receiving small and medium-sized pensions. In the short term, it is also necessary to ensure that the minimum amount of the old-age pension is not less than HUF 50,000. In our firm opinion, the elimination of wages can be achieved in the longer term by introducing the Hungarian indexation. I have been saying this here among the walls of Parliament for a long, long time. The essence of this is that the rate of the pension increase is determined by the increase in the price of the products consumed by pensioners, i.e. the so-called pensioner consumer basket, and the rise in real wages. Jobbik's old demand for decently raised children taught by the state to pay a pension supplement. This would remedy an important injustice, and it would also mean appreciation for those who take on the burden of raising children, undertake to make every effort to ensure that the Hungarian word in the Carpathian Basin can be spoken in the same way as it is now in a thousand years. There are jobs that are so burdensome that they cannot be carried out by a 65-year-old worker. I could list it, I have said it many times within the walls of Parliament. Jobbik therefore continues to consider it important that men have the opportunity to retire after 40 years of employment. This could also strengthen the unity of the family, and men could be together with their wives, families, grandchildren after 40 years of work before they had the opportunity to do so. Finally, the elderly need security. Therefore, signalling assistance should be modernised and made available to all. It is essential to further increase the amount of care premiums, and what has been said many times recently as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, is to increase the wages of social workers. Finally, it is very important that an elderly home building and expansion programme should be implemented in Hungary. 28,000 people are waiting to enter such institutions, and I add, now, in these viral times, it is important that these institutions are able to function well, and that experience, unfortunately often bad experiences such as the events that have taken place in the past, must be applied, and the prevention of it must be introduced in the field of nursing homes. One word, like a hundred, could be used for a long time to describe questions concerning the elderly. Yes, we demand that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, take proper care of the old age group and give them the decent living they deserve after the years spent. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-25-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-187	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps the most important political and political-philosophical lesson of the post-emergency crisis is that, at the time of a tribal war, everyone is already trying to respond to their own bubble of opinion within Parliament, and pro-government politicians are pro-government sympathizers, and the opposition space, obviously, in a manner consistent with the current chariot camp, while the crossing between these opinion bubbles has essentially ceased. Parallel realities thus developed in Hungary. I also feel very differently after reading the Hungarian Nemzet daily, and quite differently, if I turn the Hungarian Voice, the latter is obviously closer to me, but I also see that these parallel realities can always find their own audience. That is why I was amazed at the fact that, in the midst of the epidemiological emergency, government communication revealed the involvement of banks and financial institutions in public burdens. On the other hand, these institutions, without considering the financial situation of customers in the event of an emergency, increase their fees, invoice packages, card fees, if any, and the economic whispering propaganda also predicted that, at the end of the repayment moratorium, the repayments would increase by at least 7-10 percent. The Government of Hungary would be expected to prevent these very dangerous processes. On the other hand, when, in view of the epidemiological emergency, a separate tax was apparently levied on these banks, it was doubled, as they allowed it to be written down from their tax to zero in five years, and the loan programme of the Hungarian National Bank of 1000 billion, which was opened in their direction, working with a 4-percent Marzz, represents a total dot of approximately 40 billion to the banks concerned. In this way, these institutions are left out of public burdens, but they increase and increase the burden on the population. In parallel realities, all of this does not appear in a discussion space, nor can it appear, and although we are now in Parliament listening politely to others, real debates, unfortunately, do not unfold in this area, even though the epidemiological emergency has brightened these parallel realities more than anything else. In government rhetoric, for example, the Budapest-Belgrád investment appeared as a project of nation building, future building and, by the way, serving the nation state, and I say that something done by overpriced and government oligarchs from a 1,000 billion-dollar foreign loan does not necessarily serve the interests of the Hungarian nation, even if I am very happy that some tens of thousands of our brothers who have been broken across the border will be easier to cross if they are. But overall, I do not want this to happen through government corruption. I also see that, while it was promised that there would be order in two weeks and that the public would be stunned by the fact that the number of crimes has decreased, the reality is that this government has merely raised the threshold of infringement and that what was a crime before is in many cases an infringement. At the same time, I am amazed at the fact that, at the heart of Budapest, Hungarian young people can literally be cut down and paid with their lives because there are conditions that are insufferable and intolerable in every nation state that gives itself. God rest the young Hungarians! It would be our duty to do everything in our power to prevent such amazing tragedies from happening again. And the news of the same day is that a lady pushing her stroller pulled that necklace off her neck, which I'm not sure is just a family fortune. It would represent a sense of family safety if such cases could not occur in bulk. I don't want to go any further on the shooting in Újpest, but I can list five or six similar cases from these days alone, which we have to say is enough, no more. You have to stop madness, but in the age of parallel realities, it's crazy hard, because as long as we, as a family man, are inexorable pain in such a case, and I know that, in person, the pro-government fellows in front of me, there are no common solutions at systemic level, and I find this catastrophic, untenable. While they are talking about freedom of the press on the government side, Facebook commentators are taking away some media that may want to carry out their task, and I have to say, although I have no way of criticizing the work of official bodies, perhaps it would not be necessary to crush democracy in Hungary to such an extent. Therefore, the only way to put an end to parallel realities is to throw away 30 years of bad habits where they belong, to the trash heap of history, and finally to build a decent, democratically based nation state, if you can ask for them, together. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[14.50]]
u2020-05-25-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! This is not the first time I have had the opportunity to talk about the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises in agriculture. I consider this to be very important, because it is not necessary for the entire government media to announce with great pride that it can provide some HUF 1 billion in support of the whole fruit and vegetable sector in order to help the FESZ function. This is a ridiculously low amount in itself, especially if we add how much trouble they are in and how many people are involved, and especially if we put it next to saying that our country's budget for agriculture and rural development is about 700 billion forints in a given year, then we are facing a huge contradiction. We are well aware of the proportions of this, about 80 percent of which is the best 10%. This disproportionateness, against which, in opposition, even the future Fidesz government raised its voice, and then, when it came to power, not only would it have reversed this disproportionateness, but it was practically frozen or in many respects turned even worse. Another HUF 1 billion is intended for beekeepers, who were in huge trouble long before the outbreak of the coronal virus. This is not just a Hungarian phenomenon, although it is more serious than it is in other countries of Europe; on the one hand, because beekeeper society is much wider than it is in other countries of Europe and, on the other hand, because we are particularly threatened by the dubious forgery coming from Ukraine, Serbia, typically from China. For example, in answer to a written question, I also learned that Hungarian laboratories are unable to distinguish these counterfeits from domestic honey, so mixed with a few percent of European honey in those neighbouring countries, they are virtually unhindered in the domestic markets. As I said, this problem occurred long before the pandemic, so the problem among domestic beekeepers was compounded by the difficult situation caused by the pandemic. This HUF 1 billion will be very, very little to allow any small or medium-sized family of beekeepers in Hungary to appreciate this at all. We are well aware that the current pandemic is not the biggest problem in agriculture. Although some precipitation has come in the days, we know that we have actually been through a drought on a historical scale if we consider the past six months. This will not help the cereals, which has arrived now, at least not in any way at all, and in the early spring crops, the rain was long overdue. Thus, the responsibility of the government to do nothing in the last ten years to keep our waters back so that Hungary can carry out some kind of water governance must be underlined. Instead, the EU's billions have been used exclusively to build a narrow, close-to-Fidesz agricultural baron system, even though these ten years would have been sufficient for the smallest farmer to have access to irrigation water, free of charge and free of bureaucracy. So I'm obviously not blaming the government for the drought, but I am blaming it for this level of damage to farmers. In addition, there is the poultry flu, which must also be mentioned. Perhaps this was what stood on the most stable of our livestock sectors, which set the best example from a cooperative point of view, at all from a market management point of view, and produced the best numbers for both stakeholders and the national economy. Now they are in a very, very difficult situation with the poultry flu. They expect much more serious government help, market protection, and appropriate measures to protect their employees. For all these reasons, I say that, in many respects, there is insufficient treatment of the virus on the part of the government, but rural development and agriculture are certainly among the biggest losers, and there is an unfair lack of mention on the part of the governing parties. That is why I thought it was very important to underline these problems, the families concerned, after the agenda, because they would have expected more serious help. We're at the last minute. I ask you very nicely, I demand that the government, for their sake, produce a much stronger and greater amount of protection. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-25-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Member László Varju has applied for a speech from the DK Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-191	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, The Orbán government is also doing everything in its power to do more harm or to harm the local authorities, especially those where Fidesz had previously lost the elections. No parking fee, no business tax revenue, in fact, the stick between the spokes hinders the work and the resources available to eliminate the danger are lost. To give a concrete example of this, this is what happens when, by the way, the government is talking about what kind of masks China has brought, but no one has seen. What's happening? The Mayors of Budapest share the masks. The same thing happened when the government threw people out of hospitals in one week, and thousands of patients were taken out of care in this way. It was the mayors of the Democratic Coalition in Budapest who gave extraordinary home care support to families of patients sent home. I could continue with this for a long time, but I would like to draw attention to what happened in the Újpest district, because in my constituency the Orbán government caused hundreds of millions of forints of losses, or 300 million forints of losses to the hundreds of thousands of inhabitants of Újpest. Despite this, the Democratic Districts, I see, and Újpest doesn't abandon people, Újpest's leadership does his job. I see that Tibor Déri and his team are working together with Norbert Trippon, President of DK in Budapest to reduce losses. That's why we managed to save the District Appreciation Program. This means that 125 million forints will be spent instead of the previous potato distribution that the mayor of Fidesz tried, 25 thousand pensioners in Újpest will receive a voucher of 5 thousand forints, which, by the way, can be spent on the Újpest market as an economic measure by local patriot. What they want, they decide, and that's what they're gonna buy. It should be clear that any elderly person who has reached the retirement age applicable to him on the first day of the year is entitled to this benefit, women who receive 40 years of pension based on entitlement, beneficiaries of invalidity or rehabilitation benefits, beneficiaries of the benefit, beneficiaries of invalidity benefits and elderly persons who are informed of the government office. It is clear that everyone whose care does not exceed HUF 410 400, i.e. one hundred percent of the elderly population living in Újpesten, is entitled. For this reason, they are truly content with the. Appreciation plus programme, launched by the Újpest municipality. We do this despite the fact that the government took 240 million forints of motor vehicle tax, which is nearly double the amount of this, by the way, the value added program, and yet the Újpest city administration was able to save this program. The Regulation has also entered into force. We are doing this in Újpesten, but to my knowledge, they are doing the same thing in Angelland, which has been voted for by the district citizens. This will make the district viable, while the Orbán government will do everything in its power to counter this. Indeed, we pay attention to these people. And those who voted for Fidesz last October, I think they're wondering why they're taking revenge on Newpesten and why the government is doing it. [[15.00]] Újpest has representatives working for people, we work transparently, without corruption, fairly, following the moral order of solidarity. One example of this is the initiative we have just presented. I'm proud to be working with this team for Újpest and Újpest. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-05-25-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Hajdu also came forward after the agenda from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, 70 years ago, the so-called first council law was adopted in this building, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary, I thought that in a few words I would mention this part of the administration within the walls of the House. On January 1st, 1950, Nagy-Budapest was created on the basis of a law of the year. The creation of Nagy-Budapest meant that after the merger of Pest, Buda, Óbuda in 1873 the cities with county rights in the agglomeration, 6 of them and 16 large municipalities were attached to Budapest by administrative means, obviously not by referendum, but by parliamentary decision, and the so-called Nagy-Budapest was created with a population of around 460 thousand, a capital of European size. This council law was then in line with the Soviet similar administration, almost a mirror translation of the Soviet Council system, which meant that there was a one-party system in 1950. The local implementation of the one-party system will was the law of the council, with the rights attached to it, with the permissions, but with the central control, and with this impression, these organizations worked. A large city was created, but with weak infrastructure. The large municipalities and cities with county rights attached here... By the way, these county-righted cities lost their county rights, and then the county-right of the city was as powerful as, say, Budapest's right. If I were to list them, this concerns Budafok, Kispest, Pesterzsébet, Pestszentlőrinc, Rákospalota and Újpest, about which we have just heard a comment, and my constituency has also been affected by the large communities in Rákospalota and Pestújhely, one has arrived here with 50,000 inhabitants and the other 15 thousand inhabitants in the administrative area of Nagy-Budapest. The council law was worth 40 years, and then the Fifth. was replaced in 1990. But before I mention it, I would like to mention that this council law has been amended three times. One before 1956, during the Imre Nagy government period. Then the settlements, or districts, were given real democratic permissions, because 22 districts of the 14 districts had been established in Budapest in the new administration, and the districts had real powers. So it looked like a tiny little democracy was involved. In 1971, the next law of the Council amended it quite significantly, and in 1983 there was also a major amendment, when these amendments were already covered by the electoral law. 1990, the change of regime LXV. Its law, which set itself the local government, and to make decisions on the spot by those who belong to it, which until 2011, this law became rather short-lived by the government, the current government, the Fidesz-KDNP coalition, has changed to Mötv., but it does not simply mean a change of name, but basically a change of strategy. Last week's parliamentary debate confirms that a centralization has started again, a central management has started again, central will has started again, as is the enforcement of the pro-state, one-party system will. Just thinking about the designation of special economic zones, what's next, looking at this 70-year chronology, local administrations? Thank you so much for letting me know.
u2020-05-25-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-25-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that Miklós Kásler's admiration for Parliament today is infinitely cynical, in which he did not understand why they deal with him, since he does not have a birthday or a name day. It is also cynical because, thanks to his actions, many people can no longer celebrate their names or their birthdays, because it is the result of government measures that they are tragically deceased. I asked the question just a week ago, and many others have done the same today, and it was a very simple question when they would like to resign, finally look at themselves, and exercise self-control, Minister Kásler, because it is obvious that the coat that the leadership of the largest ministry in the country is large for him. Unfortunately, according to his custom, the Minister did not reply, but fled the room, instead we heard the reply of the Secretary of State of Rétvári, and we know very well what the appointed State Secretarys of State have to do in this case, because it is nothing more than to avoid the real answer to the question asked. All he did, Minister of State, was to hear the last eight years of Soros, the migrants, Gyurcsány, the appreciation of the greatness of the Orbán government, and, of course, ridiculously manipulated statistics. However, the question continues to hang in the air, because we believe that a politician who has not been the leader of the EMMI, who has just been a few days or weeks ago, simply denies ministerial instructions that threaten the lives of thousands of people, which cause human tragedies. And you don't have to be a brain surgeon, anyone can recall the ministerial order that the operational tribe spoke about in front of the cameras on 15 April, and here I would quote: the release of the beds has begun, Minister Kásler has ordered that 50 percent of 60 percent of the beds be available by 19 April, and the minister has also specified the composition of the empty beds. That's what Officer Muller Cecília said at the time. It is well known that the Director of the National Medical Rehabilitation Institute and the County Hospital in Székesfehérvár was also fired with almost immediate effect by the Minister, who did not, or did not, comply with the taste of the Ministry. We also know very well that at this time a lot of shocking and blood-boiling information has spread, in cases where we have heard the calvary of helpless patients who have often been put on the streets from hospitals, unfortunately in many cases the tragedy of death. And the recent question of how many deaths he knew were due to the evacuation of hospital beds was once again a cynical minister's answer that he had not received such news. Then came the rear-view, the hospitals were suddenly rewritten in a single day, and we now know that 32 917 empty hospital beds are now used again by patients. Why we had to evacuate these beds, why so much, why so harshly, why so inhumanly, why causing such suffering, we really don't know that today. Miklós Kásler stood before the public on May 21st and made a surprising statement. He claimed it was a slip, that he had to empty the beds, and he didn't think such an instruction was given. Kásler makes all this so that the press will flaunt the key ministerial documents proving this otherwise, and thousands of Hungarians will suffer the consequences of the ministerial instructions even today. The Minister may have partial amnesia, so he doesn't remember what he wrote or prescribed the day before. Either it has nothing to do with his wallet, and someone else is bringing it, signing instructions under his name, or he's simply lying tragically childishly, like a kid who denies pecking his granny's strawberry jam when he's caught his hand still in the jar. [[15.10]] We do not know what is real, but we know that Mr. Kasler's government career is full of lies. We know that the alpha and the omega of the current system is the lie, that this is what holds together the increasingly crumbling Orbán regime as mortar, but unfortunately, the leader of the EMMI is even at a much lower level. Minister Kásler must go. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-25-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea from the Jobbik Group came forward. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-25-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The title of my speech is: "This is what a statesman is like. My fellow Members certainly do not know who or in what way I wish to remember. Day after day, week after week, I try to bring some kind of historical parallel to the House, from which we can learn, and sometimes we can follow it. On May 25, 1571, the Transylvanian orders convened a meeting, and the Gyulafehérvár Parliament elected István Báthory as Transylvanian prince. He was the most powerful man in the country. Remembering him is the subject of my speech after today's agenda. He lived 53 years, had an incredible life. Not many people in history can say that about themselves. At that time, in 1571 our country was under the Habsburg rule, and under Turkish rule, the country was divided into three parts, the royal Hungary, the Turkish rule and the Transylvanian Sovereign. After his election as Prince of Transylvania, they organized against him from the Royal Hungary within two years, and fought against him constantly. Till his death, for 15 years, until December 12, 1586, he was placed in any position of rulership, only the attack, defeat, and engulfment was what he had to live to, but he resisted, and he succeeded in completing both his positions as rulers. In his internal policy, he sought to strengthen the princely power, to review former estate donations, to take stock of state incomes, to develop trade, mining, so he did a lot of good for Transylvania. In 1581 he founded a Jesuit dorm in Cluj, an predecessor of today's University of Szeged. In his court he constantly hosted foreign scientists to improve Hungarian science and to improve the knowledge of Hungarian citizens. The Wesselényi and the Bethlen grew out of this circle. The prince himself was an excellent writer, his letters were stylish, as the researchers say. As every medieval, modern-day ruler has taken many questionable measures during his reign, as hundreds of years can be regarded as the age of conquest, they have constantly attacked their status as rulers, but still the court of history must evaluate their results, which I am about to do. The 1st of May 1576 came when the Transylvanian prince István Báthory was crowned king of Poland in Krakow at the Wawel Cathedral. This has been such a great achievement for Hungarians, the Hungarian nobility, which has been surrounded only by the pathos ever since. In 1585, a year before his death, he recovered even Nagybány from the Royal Hungary for Transylvania. In Poland, too, he sought to strengthen central power, to develop the economy, to levy consumer taxes, to create a mercenary army independent of the order, and to use very willingly Transylvanians. There were times when 5 thousand Transylvanians served in the Polish Imperial Army. Several Szeklers fought with Bathory, and when the Polish orders asked him, as king of Poland, to recover the territories occupied by Tsar Ivan the Terrible, lost in the war in Livornia, the Poles made their demands but did not add any means. And because this ruler wanted to serve the trust of the Poles, he organized an army of Hungarians, light riders, Szeklers, Polish mercenaries, Germans, Czechs and Romanians, and in two years he recovered the Polish territories from the Tsar by 1581. That's why the Poles respect him as the greatest king. Why did I bring all this here today, beyond being elected Transylvanian prince in 1571? Because I would like us as politicians to talk about how we want to serve our people, that we want to serve our political community, that we want to be presented by history as positive actors, then we need to take an example from them. I would also like to know the Hungarian politicians about unity, solidarity, responsibility, fairness, and all about the style of rulers and statesmen, which, for example, described this great man at the time. I wish to all Members of Parliament in Hungary that with the soul that this man had ruled two countries for fifteen years, we now rule the better future of our Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-25-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 2 June. I would like to thank my fellow Members, the Members of Parliament, the Members of the Parliament's Office for their work, and thank you specifically for keeping the minutes. I wish you all a good night. The meeting's closed.
