u2020-03-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. Some opposition representatives remain seated. Dr. Bence Rétvári: They don't greet the nation! When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, My sad duty again is to announce that Dr. István Balsai, a renowned lawyer, a constitutional judge, died in the 73rd year of the life of the First Minister of Justice of the democratic rule of law after the change of regime. István Balsai was born in Miskolc in 1947, but he was already studying in the capital. In 1972 he became a doctor at the Faculty of Law and Law at Eötvös Loránd University. From 1972 he worked as a candidate for a lawyer, and from 1974 he became a member of the Budapest Bar Association, and until 1990 he worked without interruption in Budapest's 21st sz. He was a law firm. Between 1995 and 2005, he worked as a private lawyer in his profession. In September 1988, following the values of the Christian Democrat, he entered the MDF among the first. From June 1989 he participated in the tripartite political conciliation negotiations as a member of the MDF delegation in the drafting of the electoral law. In October 1989 he was elected permanent member of the National Election Committee and resigned because of his candidacy. From 1994 he was elected member of the national presidency of the MDF several times, between 2000 and 2001 he represented his party several times as Deputy Group Leader and Group Leader during his national vice-president years in the Parliament. At the parliamentary elections in 1990 and 1994, he obtained his individual mandate as a representative of Fidesz in the parliamentary elections of 1998 and 2002 in the Budapest 2nd constituency. From the establishment of the legislation until the appointment of a minister, the Vice-President of the Standing Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Preparation of Law and Justice, and later its Chairman, from 1995 he was a member of the Committee on the Protection, Conflict of Interest and Deputies, and later vice-president. In each parliamentary cycle, he was a member or leader of a number of parliamentary committees. Between 1990 and 1994, József Antall served as Minister of Justice for the Government of Peter Boross. The outstanding achievements of his office were the laws of nullity, the compensation laws, including the law on the return of church property, the laws establishing private property relations, and the law allowing those involved in the repression of the 1956 Revolution and the fight for freedom to be held liable in criminal law. As Minister, significant steps have been taken to improve the judiciary: 23 new courts have been established, fifty courts have been enlarged and modernised. During this period, a number of laws were adopted on the status of judges, prosecutors, lawyers, executives and improving their income conditions. The National Assembly elected him as a member of the Constitutional Court in June 2011 and held his post from 1 September 2011. On February 12, 2020 the middle cross of the Hungarian Medal of Merit received the award with the star from President János Áder. István Balsai was not only active during the regime change, but, after forty years of dictatorship, a significant part of the laws laying the foundations of the Hungarian rule of law can be linked to his name. He died in the 73rd year of his life. I would ask you to honor the memory of our fellow Member with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased. On the table placed in the room, photos and flowers remind me of Dr. István Balsai.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 2 March 2020 Mr Tibor Bana informed me that he had quit the Parliamentary Group of Jobbik, so that the number of the factions was 19 persons. He will continue his work as an independent Member. He applied for a pre-meeting speech from Bence Tordai, the Dialogue. I give you the floor. [[Róbert Hondas and Tibor Nunkovics give a tulip to every woman in the room.]]
u2020-03-09-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Yesterday, March 8th, was International Women's Day. This is an opportunity to welcome women and thank them, but it is also an opportunity for us men to think about what benefits we enjoy, what privileges we have, what extra opportunities we have just because we were born to be boys. [[13.10]] Women and men must also realize that today we live in a man-centred, men-oriented, patriarchal society, that men are off track, and that this is not fair. What we need is justice, gender equality, a rebalancing of the fallen balance, or feminist politics. But that's not what we've seen in the last ten years, it's a macho, aggressive and anti-female fidesz policy. This should be replaced by a peaceful, feminist, green, left-wing policy for equality between women and men. I want you to tell the secretary of state to stop panicking, equality is not an identity, you don't have to start gendering, because then you won't understand what you're talking about. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks.]] Yesterday at the Dialogue event, which was honored by the presence of the LMP, MSZP, Momentum management, several civilians and activists, Gergely Christmas, Bernadett Szél, Timea Szabó, Benedek Jávor and Nóra Eörsi, the young green movement, as well as the 101-year-old owner of Bálint and Philippe Lamberts, spokesperson of the European Green Party, who spoke about the need for a fair green revolution both in the world and in Hungary. One of the greatest injustices today is inequality between women and men, which is reflected in the world of work, in the family and in other areas of society, in exposure to poverty and violence, in justice, in economic and political power. It's not just as a green left-wing politician, as a former social scientist, as a feminist, as a daughter-in-law father, it's what everyone who knows the facts and has a sense of justice in place. The facts show that women work more than an hour a day, but most of this is underpaid or unpaid work; otherwise, the basic income proposal of the Dialogue responds. The wage difference for men is HUF 68 thousand per month gross, so women work for two months a year for free, but not only their wages, but their pensions are also six times lower than those of men. This is reflected in poverty, especially in single - parent families, where 87 percent of the cases are women, mothers are raising children alone, and 35 percent of whom live in income poverty, while this figure is only 15 percent for two - person households. And unfortunately, it also shows up in physical and sexual violence, as one woman is killed every week by her partner, 200,000 people live in an abusive relationship, and at least one in every five Hungarian women is subjected to violence in their lives. Today, the justice system does not remedy this, and they are trying to hide it with weak image films. But there is also inequality in economic power. Two or five of the hundred richest Hungarians change year after year, how many are women, but most of them are only under the rights of their husbands. And this is also the case in particular in the distribution of political power, where 25 years ago Hungary was 45th in the ranking of the countries, with 45th highest equality, and now we are down to 113rd. It is a shame of the world that the number of women in the Parliament is less than 10 percent. We need to find solutions to this situation, and the green left gives us the solutions that we put in order as part of the women's packages. The most important elements are equal pay for equal work, in which the left-wing parties and local governments joined a campaign one step closer; our initiatives to ratify the Istanbul Convention; or Budapest's solutions, proposed by Krisztina Baranyi and Gergely Christmas on protected houses, or the banning of sexist posters by Kata Tüttő and Gy. Thanks to the activities of Erzsébet Németh. And such are the quotas for which, besides the green parties, the left-wing parties, the left-wing parties are expected to catch up in Parliament, we will elect co-chairs to lead our parties, because we know that the ideal proportion in politics is 50-50 percent between genders. Compared to this, Fidesz does not practice a man's culture, looks away at women's beatings, and Viktor Orbán does not deal with women's affairs. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government ranks.]] In the world of green left, however, the foundation is equality between women and men, equal opportunities, equal burdens, equal opportunities and equal dignity. This is what feminist politics means, and implementation of this is the mission of the green left. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-09-2	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-03-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Women's Day would be a good opportunity, honourable Member, for us to agree that men and women have equal dignity, that equal pay is equal for equal work, we are trying to make them part of the national consensus and the national minimum, but you have also played this opportunity, so to speak, and chose rather an ordinary mud-throwing speech instead of really doing what is necessary to give men and women equal social recognition for equal work and equal performance. On Women's Day, I think that all of us, my fellow men and everyone else, have expressed the real value of women, and without them, our lives would be very messed up, which is why they should be respected every day of the year. But, honourable Member, when you speak here, why don't you mention that the president of the party to which you are now rubbing in order to get into Parliament in 2022 has said such things about women that everyone would like to replace their old wives with younger ones? Does that fit you in the progressive green left? [[Constant intervention on the opposition side.]] [[Constant intervention on the opposition side.]] Do you want this person to be Prime Minister or Prime Minister's spouse in the next term in Hungary? Do you think this is the progressive, green left, honourable Member? (Continuous interventions on the opposition side. ) Please mention that the fellow Members with whom you are allied in politics here in Parliament, when we changed social law here two cycles ago and created the legal category of secret asylums [[Continued calls from opposition ranks, including Ágnes Kunhalmi: National consensus! The president's ringing the bell.]] Why didn't you vote here in Parliament to have secret shelters in the social law? [[13.20]] When we're here in Parliament, we're still the new Btk. before its adoption, the facts of the violence in relations were introduced in the Criminal Code, why you did not vote for the opposition, honourable Members and gentlemen. [[Gergely Harvester: For little!]] When it wasn't just supposed to talk, it was supposed to be done? When it is necessary not only to declare emergencies but also to act to protect women or abused women? And when we have accepted in this Parliament the possibility of 40 women who have been expressly reduced to women, why have you not voted for it, honourable Member? Then why were the speakers not so courageous and why they did not say, yes, that this discount should be granted to women, but that you could not press the yes button here in Parliament, none of your fellow Members, when it could indeed have been done for women, honourable Member. To correct some of the untruths that he said: the government's operation and our economic policy have not made female employment as high in 20 years, and perhaps even to say that it hasn't been as high as it is since the change of regime. Mr President, the wage gap between women and men, which you referred to, is fortunately falling in Hungary. Since we've been steering, one fifth of that difference has evaporated. When the balliberal side was on the steering wheel, it was 17.6% in Hungary, while a few years ago, when there was the latest statement on this, the difference was only 14 percent. So one fifth of the difference is gone, honourable Member. If you look at the EU average in women's employment and how much in Hungary, you see that in 2010 the EU average was 62.1 and the Hungarian average was 54,6 and therefore the difference was 7.5 percent, and now the difference is 0.6 percent, the EU average was 67.4 and the Hungarian average was 66.8. So we are almost there in employment, thank God, as the EU average, although we were very behind, and the pay gap has fallen in a noticeable way. And if you look at where women are in the leading position in Hungary, in what proportion and what is the EU average, you can see many countries, including Scandinavian countries, which we believe to represent a better proportion than us, but no, even Scandinavian countries are preceded by the high proportion of female leaders in Hungary. When we look at how the employment rate of mothers raising their children at home has been increased from 65 percent to 72 percent, where two children are raised at home, from 64.8 to 72.6%, where three or more children are raised at home, the employment rate has risen from 37.1 to 52 percent, honourable Member. So, with the government's measures, both the pay gap and the fall in employment, thank God, it has been able to improve in recent years. [[Constant noise on the opposition side.]] You have mentioned the single - parent families: the government has launched an explicit programme, especially for mothers and, to a lesser extent, fathers, who raise their children alone at home, to live more safely, and the risk of poverty has been reduced by about a third in recent years. These are important results. Happy birthday to the women. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-4	I would like to thank my fellow Members for listening silently to the Secretary of State and for giving him the respect that he is a man. So thank you very much for the return on the part of the people who gave us this. [[Gergely Arató: We don't know if he is a man. Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is on your side!]] It's Erzsébet Schmuck's turn. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Anyone who can decide whether it's a boy or a girl, of course, that's what I'm thinking.
u2020-03-09-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Climate change is accelerating very rapidly, the negative environmental impacts are stacked on one another, and this has serious health and economic implications. Everyone can now perceive this on their wallets, such as the drastic increase in food prices, in connection with the extreme weather conditions last year. We see that the government is still at the level of fine words and believes that we can be stowaways in this international process. This year, in November, there will be a very important climate summit in Glasgow, as the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement requires decisions to be taken to keep the temperature rise within one and a half degrees Celsius. The most important issues are: the target date for achieving climate neutrality, the 2030 reduction targets, adaptation tasks, financial issues, support for developing countries, to list the most important ones. There the European Union and each country must declare what they want and what they will do to combat climate change. Last week, climate and environmental events took place in Brussels. The Commission presented the draft regulation of the Climate Protection Act, which basically underpins the European Union's low greenhouse gas emission strategy. This is the strategy to be submitted to the UN in the autumn under the Paris Convention. As Hungary is a member of the European Union, our own strategy should not be contrary to the EU's strategy. Now, let's talk about sensitive points. The European Union is currently considering a 50-55 percent reduction by 2030 and intends to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, which should be finalised in the autumn on the basis of consultation with Member States. I think the government is shocked by this 2030 target, because, as set out in the national energy and climate plan, the government still wants to make a 40% reduction by 2030, the 40 percent reduction that we have already achieved once in 2013, and we are now on a growing CO2 emission path. For the government, it is particularly bad news that by 2030, European greens and green civil society organisations no longer consider a 50-55 percent reduction to be sufficient. Experts and scientists believe that if the target is to be met, a 65 percent greenhouse gas emission reduction should be achieved by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2040 instead of 2050. The LMP fully agrees with the stricter targets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we cannot sit on the idea that by 2030 we will have enough to reduce our CO2 emissions by 40%. A script should be drawn up and it should be prepared that the 40% reduction target is far from enough, it may easily exceed 60%. Unfortunately, the government's eight-point action plan is worth almost nothing to combat climate change. They're neglecting the framework, which we miss very much. This should be done both for reduction purposes and for adaptation tasks. The time passed on NÉS-2 even when you accepted it by majority here in Parliament. There are no specific, appropriate targets, delivery dates for the targets. Dear House, The issue of climate change is the issue of Hungarian society as a whole, affecting everyone. We therefore expect the government to have a substantive debate here in Parliament on the goals to be set in Hungary and on the tasks of implementation in order to prepare for the climate summit in November. The government should not be behind Parliament's back on national strategy issues. Non-action will cost much more than immediate action. The LMP calls on the government to expect a 65 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2040 in the common interest of all of us. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-09-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian government is also of the opinion that we need action in climate protection, not empty words, but that is why it is strange that if they want to accuse us, the only political player who has already taken real measures and not just talked about this issue. On the other hand, he concluded by saying that it would be important to discuss these really important issues before the Parliament. I think that this will be possible, among other things, following your motion, if we are honored on this occasion by your presence and come to a political debate day or to discuss a resolution that you have initiated. [[13.30]] This, we remember well, last year or the year before last, was not possible, since, in spite of the political debate, only the Fidesz and KDNP, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party and the representatives of the government were present in the parliamentary debate. We also agree that the protection of our created environment is in the common interest and responsibility of all of us, and that everyone must also do something to protect the environment. I would like to remind you, honourable Member, that earlier in Brussels, the Member States were able to reach an agreement. We aim to ensure that the European economy is carbon-free by 2050. We can achieve this in Hungary, too, but this requires a lot of work and serious cooperation, as our country is fundamentally in agreement with this goal, but it must also be made clear that these cannot result in an increase in energy and food prices and that additional costs cannot burden consumers. It is also clear and clear in the Hungarian government's position that the richest states, the largest polluters and the largest multinational companies must play their part to the greatest extent. We insist that we do not make Hungarian families pay the costs instead of climate disrupters, and we will definitely avoid raising food and energy prices. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the need for the European Council to take a decision on the European Commission's proposal. The European Council is sure that it will take this decision after a long debate, just because there are numerous conflicting proposals in the EU institutional system with different levels of ambition on the table; on the one hand, the Commission document you mentioned and, on the other hand, it is worth looking at the proposal for a budget of the European Union, which has a low level of ambition, and we believe that we want to spend little resources on climate protection and climate adaptation compared to what is necessary and realistic. That is why we are saying and we are pleased that, if you agree to this position and confirm that we must insist on maintaining cohesion aid, we cannot accept that, on the basis of the Brussels or left-wing argument on climate protection, we want to increase the overhead or food prices or to reduce the subsidies that we have. I know that we cannot reach an agreement with you in this area, but we also consider it particularly important to use nuclear power, because we also have a strong position that without effective emission reductions, we will continue to look forward to the green light of LMP, LMP-Greens, when they realise that without nuclear power, without the support of nuclear technology, we cannot achieve our common climate protection objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and According to the 2018 statistics, 43.5 percent of EU CO2 emissions are, by the way, caused by the three largest pollutants, Germany, the then EU member United Kingdom and Italy. However, the former socialist countries only account for one fifth of the total Community emissions, and more than two thirds of which are caused by Poland, the Czech Republic and Romania together. Hungary's annual CO2 emissions per capita are small compared to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-8	Now, on behalf of DK, Lajos Oláh. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-09-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is deeply true that in an emergency situation such as a coronal virus epidemic, one of the most important things to do is to avoid panic. We are well aware that panic is even more dangerous than such a dangerous disease, so everything must be done to keep people calm and not to lose confidence that the government knows what it's doing. This is achieved by governments all over the world with two things. One is that they treat the epidemic at the highest professional level, including contact research and a lot of testing, and the other is that they report it itemally and inform people. But this only works if the second confirms the first, i.e. government information shows everyone that everything is in the background as well. I would be lying if I told you that the press conferences of the operational tribe are a source of calming epidemiological professionalism, and that is primarily because of Minister Miklós Kásler. How is it possible that when the minister in charge of education is asked why they didn't tell us which university the Iranian student with the Crown Virus was going to go to, he says because he didn't say so himself. They found a coronal virus infected student, and they didn't know what university he was going to for a whole day. Kásler, Minister for Health, did not tell Kásler, Minister for Education. They're not on speaking terms? But let me ask you one more question. How is it possible that the other Iranian student groupmates, who have been in direct contact with the coronal virus patient for days, would apply themselves to test them, but would drive them away by not having to test them. You didn't have to track down potential infected people, you volunteered, you saved most of the work for the disease control. And the authorities send them home? It turned out yesterday that after a very difficult test had been carried out, one of them had been diagnosed with coronal virus infection. By the way, I'll tell you one more time, they got kicked home early. We could say it's better late than never, but unfortunately, in epidemics, any delay has a price. Miklós Kásler failed as Minister of Health and failed as Minister of Education. Of course, we can see that Miklós Kásler has not been able to bring him to the press since his deplorable appearance. Of course, you also have a lot of work to do. Yesterday, as a responsible opposition party, DK also proposed 14 concrete measures that could make the protection against the coronal virus more effective and effective. We are pleased to see that some of these have been accepted by you, for example, to postpone school trips or to prohibit visiting nursing homes. We very much hope that the rest of our proposals will come to this fate, such as broadening testing, supporting work at home or establishing a compensation fund, in which Hungarians in quarantine will be able to make up for their wages. As a new proposal, I would now like to initiate the following. 1. In the case of the payment of yellow cheques, the government should take a decision immediately after consulting the service providers so that pensioners do not have to queue in the post during an epidemic and therefore do not delay. 2. Set up immediately the rules of quarantine at home, budget support. 3. In the case of pensioners living alone without help, if they want to lock themselves up at home because of the epidemic, the state should organise their care with the involvement of local governments, whether it be shopping or medicines. 4. On March 20th, there will be an Apostol concert, ten thousand old people in one place during an epidemic. Dare the government decide about the events! There's no room for delay. Now there really is something to protect the country from, and it is not suitable for posters, propaganda, communication. Convince the country that they can protect us. Start by removing Miklós Kásler from the operational tribe and continuing to deal with our proposals. And we thank you very, very much for the hard work of healthcare workers so far, and we trust them very much in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-09-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-03-09-11	Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, As far as Minister Kásler is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that he has decades of institutional and health institution management experience behind him. This cannot be said of any politician in DK who is speaking here. [[Moray from the ranks of MSZP and Dialogue.]] So at least in this case, have a little more respect. At the same time, I think it is important that you bring this up. In my answer, I would like to say, on the one hand, about government and authority measures, unlike you, about informing citizens, I think that this is important and, thirdly, about what it is worth to public actors in such a situation. As we speak, nine infected patients are known while 67 are quarantined. The good news is that the student group returning from the trip to Italy could have left the hospital at the end of the week. [[13.40]] The operational tribe continues to do its work and informs them of the decisions on a daily basis, and announcements were made yesterday. In St. Laszlo's Hospital, the expansion of the seats continues. Employees from inpatient care institutions were called upon to postpone their travel abroad, a visit ban was put in place in hospitals and nursing homes, and schools were called upon to postpone school trips. Identifying persons who may have been in contact with infected persons is ongoing. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that non-compliance with the epidemiological measures is a violation, and in more serious cases a criminal offence. This should also be known to Iranian citizens who did not want to submit to the investigation. In addition, during the weekend at St. László Hospital, police presence had to be reinforced in this context. Honourable Congressman, I'd like to tell you that health professionals follow strict protocols. I would ask you to help your work by not attacking them unfairly at least this time of year. [[Interviews from DK: We thanked you!]] Several parties reported last week that continuous information was important. So while you were talking about it, a few days ago, you were asking for information, so let me tell you about it. The information green number is still in operation, the official coronal virus information page is in operation, which also contains a counter for the number of people in quarantine and the number of people diagnosed with infection. The Offices of the Centre for Public Health also respond to e-mail requests. As far as wider communication is concerned, television and radio stations have been running informational films that highlight prevention activities for days. In a few days, the internet content on the corona virus reached four and a half million people. Taking these and TV advertisements into account, we can say that the majority of the Hungarian population have already seen the calls for prevention. Further information is already being prepared. This information activity will continue as long as the epidemiological situation justifies this. Honourable Congressman, Perhaps you yourself have indicated that opposition parties, left-wing parties, have made a number of proposals in relation to the protection against the virus. Some of these include decisions that have already been made or have already been taken by the authorities. For example, there was an invitation to postpone class trips, the government canceled the March 15th celebration, and the capital, as I understand it. Many other events are expected to be missed. As far as the costs are concerned, because this is also the case, I would also like to assure the opposition parties that the resources for defence are still available, and that the government will continue to ensure this in the future. Honourable Congressman, There are measures in which there is broad agreement and, on the other hand, some of their proposals cross a line and clearly fall under the category of hysteria. I know that what I know is that it is up to opposition parties to constantly criticize the government and, by the way, ask questions, but when they do, I ask you to take into account that dealing with the current epidemic is not a party political issue, but an issue in which cooperation, calmness and responsible behaviour are needed. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, It is up to you to choose the raw party policy path or to add something to the defense work. [[Szabó Timea: Then you shouldn't leave it to Kasler! It's just Kasler's idiocy!]] I wish you a wise decision. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-12	It is now time for Congressman Tamás Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2020-03-09-13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Before I get to the specific topic, allow me to wish you a great deal of happiness, appreciation and love for every woman on a women's day, and most importantly, to feel this not only on 8 March, but also for the remaining 364 days. Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic, the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary, is now a matter of fact. The first word, I think, on behalf of all of us, is thanks. Obviously, thanks to the staff of the operational tribe, law enforcement, health care staff who are likely to do their work day and night, they do not regret overtime and all the actors in the public administration. But if the Secretary of State has asked the question or the request that opposition politicians, as responsible opposition parties, also contribute to ensuring that the country's population is as safe as possible, let us have some of the proposals that we have made in writing today, as agreed, already been forwarded to the operational tribe. There is the greatest pressure in the field of health, and in Hungary there are also the biggest problems in this area. There are 400 empty medical sites, unfilled places at the level of the district doctors, which means that in terms of nearly 600,000 of our countrymen, most of all, the government cannot comply with its call because it cannot call its district doctor. We see a number of examples, and it is also worth talking about, that have already been taken by countries in worse situations than we are, and I would like to draw your attention to this. It came from the daily report of the operational tribe, on Sunday, that 20,000 medical workers were immediately recruited in Italy, including 5 000 doctors, and they did what I think would be very important in Hungary to facilitate and speed up the procurement of instruments for medical institutions and hospitals, along with the immediate purchase of about 5 000 respirators. That is why we propose that the government take action on this matter, and what the opposition has already proposed, best assess the number of ventilators and, if necessary, immediately and without delay, acquire these devices. At least such a big question is what is in the field of education, because, ladies and gentlemen, there are one and a half million children and young people in public education and higher education, and while we know that they are not so vulnerable to the virus, they can catch the infection and pose an even greater risk as an infectious one. Therefore, we ask the operational tribe to take care of it, and KLIK to ensure that all necessary means of disinfection and hygiene appear in the same way at all schools, and we ask the government to consider that if the situation gets worse, even by bringing forward the spring break, the closure of the institutions should respond to this question if necessary. In every place where the infection justified it, it's already gone. But let us also talk a little bit about the issue of labour law, because today, in Hungary, I do not know how much you, my fellow members of government, know that this institution, the quarantine during the health epidemic, does not have any specific rules on labour law. Therefore, without any qualification, we ask the government to review, if necessary, together, what type of legislative action is needed that can help people in any way, in terms of pensions, health insurance, employment or social aspects, and that the money raised in the National Employment Fund can be spent on this, even without any additional resources. There is one more issue that affects and interests a lot of people, believe me, and this is the right and duty of the citizen, the means to use against him, the sanctions that can be imposed, and, yes, the duty of every citizen who is otherwise in an epidemiological situation, but the legal background of this, I think, should be made public very clearly. And finally, as far as communication is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, and I look at Mr Dömötör first of all, if there is ever a need for a letter to be given to all our countrymen over the age of 18, that is now. And I am not referring to the national consultation, but to an information letter, which is registered either by the operational tribe or by the chief officer, and contains the legal, otherwise health or any other questions listed above, about what the Hungarian person should adhere to. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] if he meets this, what he needs to do and what he needs to do in the next period. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-09-14	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the case of the Crown Virus is a matter beyond parties, and thank you very much for your suggestions. As you have just presented these proposals orally, many of these have been addressed by the operational tribe and the various working groups dealing with the different coronal viruses, either by health or by other working groups, but we thank you for these proposals. As you know, the government, the operational tribe, also provided detailed information to the Parliament's People's Welfare Committee, and then Minister Sándor Pintér also invited the representatives of the parliamentary parties to the Ministry of Interior, gave detailed information, and the proposals made by the Hungarian Socialist Party were also made there. [[13.50]] As I said, many of these have already been on the agenda, but any forward-looking proposal is important. The public is fully aware of the corona virus, because the government page I recommend to all to find out about it is available on the coronavirus.gov.hu website and on the dedicated Facebook page. It is important that everyone who can follow the news stream of this Facebook site, because there is a great deal of false news about these things, many people even want to make money, showing that they can help protect against the Crown Virus, which is based on false claims. So it is also important, in contrast to these rumours, that if everyone tries to gather information on these surfaces, on official surfaces. It also states that 9 infected persons are present and 67 are quarantined and the number of samples is already around 400. As soon as the WHO signaled, the government took immediate action and launched various decisions to help people prevent the spread of the virus. Fortunately, at the moment there is no focal point for the coronal virus in Hungary, but there are various individual cases, but there is no such situation as, say, in northern Italy, where there is a goose that carries infections further. We've created green numbers. You mentioned where people might turn who, say, would be looking for their GP. On the one hand, I would like to reassure you that every Hungarian person has a home doctor, because where there is no independent general practitioner in the practice, this question is solved by replacement. GPs have already received clear information on several occasions that if someone calls in to them about their feelings of private symptoms, that is, on the one hand, they were in an infected area or met with someone from an infected area, and, on the other hand, they are experiencing symptoms of themselves, cough, fever, etc., what questions should be asked by the GP. It is important that the patient doesn't have to, but rather I say that he shouldn't go in, he shouldn't go into the GP's office, because there, while waiting, if he is really infected, he can infect others, but on the phone, there's the exact list of things the GP has to ask and notify the emergency services. Paramedics have protocol on how to transport persons suspected of being infected with a coronal virus. And we have a very high-quality national reference lab at St. László's Hospital, the South-Pest Center, which can conduct tests within hours and show clear results for everyone. However, the most important thing is that those who have actually been in this area, although the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly called attention to avoid visiting these countries, but the most important thing is that those who have had such visits should avoid staying in the same airspace with others for a long time. It is therefore important, for example, that we call for schools not to go to school for two weeks, who have been in Northern Italy in the past. Health institutions are prepared, honourable Member, and all means are at your disposal. There is no financial obstacle to any kind of examination or treatment, and we provide all the resources for that. It is also important to ask for information 24 hours a day either by e-mail or by telephone, this is guaranteed to everyone. However, those who wish to travel abroad are recommended to register at the consular service, because in this case, if you do not give, you will be quarantined or anything else happens to them, it will be much easier to provide assistance. Because older and sick people are more exposed, foreign examples suggest that coronal viral disease can cause more serious consequences for them, so we have decreed that both hospitals and nursing homes have a visitation ban, since if someone brought a virus in here, it could have even more serious consequences. So from the first moment, and every day since then, we have been trying to do everything we can to ensure the safety of Hungarian people, and we will provide everything in financial and human resources to protect them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-16	Now it is up to the leader of the Jobbik group, Peter James.
u2020-03-09-17	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Soon there will be a moment of truth. Soon we'll find out how much it costs this country that you've been sitting on this nation's neck for ten years, what you've been doing for ten years is stealing, cheating, lying instead of steering. Last week, Prime Minister Posted a video on his social media site, it was very appropriate, because you really think that this country is the Wild West itself. Prime Minister must be Billy the kid, or I don't know who he is, one gangster is bigger than the other. But, fellow Members, this country is not the Wild West! This country is our country. Our country whose hand you have let go. Here's the corona virus. You could have prepared for it with modern health care, paid professionals, well-equipped clinics. Compared to this, the sector is in ruins today, when it should be on top. It's time to switch ministers. Then there's the issue of migration. Your great ally, your great friend, President Erdoğan, will launch hundreds of thousands of migrants to Hungary. Fellow Members, if this crowd reaches the Hungarian border, it is very easy to experience what it is like when propaganda on mass immigration suddenly becomes a reality. But I would add that the situation could be dealt with if you were to restore the border guard that you, among other things, abolished in 2008. Mr. Prime Minister told me last week that he thought there was plenty of dead cops near the border. No, fellow Members, it's not enough! Do you know where the policeman is? To our towns and villages. The border needs a border guard. We have put our proposal on your table, so vote for it. Prove that you do not want to make a living on the migrant issue, but that you want to solve it. Let us work together as soon as possible, because this country will not only have to deal with the Crown Virus, not only with migration, but also face the upcoming economic crisis. And I'm just saying again that in the last few years, if you had steered, you would have been prepared for this, but even in recent months, it was more important for you to spend billions on hunting exhibitions and cross-border football, because Maradona and the head hunter in Felcsút have a hobby. Fellow Members, wake up! Wake up to see the state of this country and the state of the economic crisis it awaits. In what state is the small pensioner waiting for the economic crisis with your 2.8 percent pension increase? Any idea, fellow Members, how to assign a 2.8 percent increase with a 4% inflation rate? Colleagues, if you really care about older people, then let us finally introduce a differentiated pension increase, which should follow not only inflation but also wage increases. Leave more money than our elderly countrymen. And leave more money than Hungarian workers. Jobbik recommends that the government release personal income tax on employees who earn below the average, which could increase their wages by up to HUF 40-50 thousand per month. And I know, of course, that I know that for a prime minister who comes with luxury machines for football matches, this amount is ridiculous, but believe me, for a worker who brings home a net of 200 thousand forints or less a month, that would be a huge help. Not to mention the more than a million of our countrymen who are at minimum wage by paying you 33 percent of the minimum wage, by the way, so that you can take over. Colleagues, if you want to protect Hungarian families from the economic crisis, you need to strengthen them financially; you need to take substantial steps towards the Wages Union, you need to take substantial steps to enforce the principle of equal pay for equal work. The livelihood crisis must be moderated. And, of course, I know, I can see that that's not in your interest. German Chancellor Angela Merkel praised Viktor Orbán for a reason, saying that Hungarian economic policy is developing in a positive direction. Of course, from the German perspective, the change is indeed positive, because you provide cheap labour for the German economy, cheaper, I add, like the Poles, the Czechs and Slovaks. And in return, you obviously expect German politics, or even the European People's Party, to look the other way when you break the rule of law, to destroy democracy. Colleagues, you are able to sacrifice the well-being of Hungarian families and Hungarian workers on the altar of the Western economy in order to build an Eastern-type regime in Hungary in addition to assisting the West. It's just, you know, this country doesn't deserve this. Hungary deserves not an eastern regime, not an eastern dictatorship, but Western democracy and Western prosperity. [[Dr. Bence Retvári: Iranian Revolutionary Guard, huh? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] And we, the good guys, are not gonna let that happen. Remember this, fellow Members: Hungarians can never be a bargaining chip. Do you understand? Never! Especially not the Hungarian government. So stick to it. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik. A rare applause from the benches of LMP, DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-03-09-18	State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Last week, when we were preparing for your speech, we saw that you were not preparing for a serious political speech, but for a political performance; you were dressed accordingly, you were wearing a proper posture with a leather jacket to demonstrate that you were a simple child of the people. It seems that appearances are important to you. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: At least it fits in his jacket, unlike you! Dániel Z. Carpathian: He wears a dress of his size!]] When I saw that you were... [[14.00]]
u2020-03-09-20	Relax, gentlemen, relax.
u2020-03-09-21	... you are now dressed differently for this parliamentary session, so I thought that we would definitely be meeting with a different type of speech. But it's not. Exactly the same mess, that hypocrite, hypocrite attitude that you've been talking about. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Then come the answer!]] Which was described last week; it's just a small dive in your speech. He's accusing us of an Eastern-type authoritarian system. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] while it was your party who tried to invite the Iranian Revolutionary Guard to Hungary and set it as an example to Hungary? While he was talking about what happened in the East... [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Congressman, let's not make fun of each other. He preaches water and drinks wine, speaks of love, but all of his speeches are filled with hatred. What are we talking about? You say that you should pay attention to the fallen, the dissidents, while you cannot enforce this principle in your own party. Those who disagree with you, who dare to argue against you, sit in the back, are becoming more and more repressed, that faction is growing, and your faction is falling. In addition, it is always in the interests of the nation for the reasons of its policy, but in its non-public speeches it talks about national interests and national affairs and memory policy as a matter of openness to left-wing voters. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why lie?]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why lie?]] should be avoided. What a hypocrite, Congressman. (Daniel Z. Carpathian: Why do you lie?) What a hypocrite this is! Mai told me that the country is destiny, not tricks and stunts. The fact that we are thinking in our country is that we are talking about a nation is not a trick, it is not a stunt. That's not a political sarcasm you can put on on on one Monday, and then a week from now. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Luxury trick! Black Pocket, that's a good stunt.]] If someone else is going to talk to you in Parliament, in Parliament, you can wear another sarcasm. That's not what this is about. This is about all of our speeches, all of our being here, all of our votes on the nation's cause. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: 12,000 evictions! Applause from the pro-government benches.]] In addition, you mentioned at least four or five policy issues in your speech. Allow me, finally, to respond briefly. The information about the Crown Virus has already been shared with you, and I wouldn't repeat it. But he mentioned health care, and I must remind him once again of his hypocritical attitude, because you are running, flying in alliance with the people who cut off Hungarian health care between 2002 and 2010. They took 600 billion forints out of it and fired thousands of employees. In addition to being civil servants and civil servants, these workers have mainly reduced their wages. And you're talking about the importance of health care? ! While the figures clearly show that there are 700 billion forints more in health care at the moment, and 6 thousand more doctors work in Hungarian hospitals and supply facilities [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't joke!]] As in 2010. He mentioned the issue of migration. What a hypocrite, Congressman. Well, you're the ones who drilled the quota vote and didn't support the government. [[There's a lot of noise from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Sit down. Cries from the benches of Jobbik, including: You have learned to lie! Clown! Sit down.]] no anti-migratory measures. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who wanted a world quota? Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Your allies in the European Parliament and here in the Hungarian Parliament are talking about the fact that we should welcome the people who are trying to come to Europe. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You wanted a world quota!]] You drilled the meeting with Erdoğan. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: World quota!]] "You have drilled the policy of trying to bring help to the issuing countries, not bringing trouble here, and then, Congressman, you stand up and now you say that the government should do something else. I believe that if it is from someone, we will not accept a lecture from you in this regard. With us, there are many people in our ranks who are no doubt [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Bond!]] more satisfied with the changes in public relations over the last ten years, but we are not, neither of us is 100% satisfied with ourselves. And there are people in the opposition who are not at all satisfied with public relations. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Happy István, Simonka! They're all satisfied!]] But they're 100% satisfied with themselves. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: But we did not steal!]] This won't work, the Jobbik will melt just like before: the iceberg. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-22	On behalf of the KDNP, István Simicskó is next.
u2020-03-09-23	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Changes caused by accelerated globalisation, immigration, terrorism, coronal virus, armed conflicts and a number of challenges, risks and threats in today's world. As Kissinger puts it in his work The World Order: Chaos threatens the world, while the need for unprecedented cooperation would become a necessity, as mankind can face global challenges of such magnitude and types that it is absolutely necessary to cooperate. Of course, at home, although listening to what has been said before the agenda, there is little chance of it, perhaps it would be good to try to find a common national denominator instead of party-political quarrels. I say this common denominator because I think we all went to school, and a lot of mathematics teachers have been working on the ability to create and define this particular common denominator by the smallest common multiple. They may think I'm an idealist, but I'm sure we can all have things in common, because we all live here in this country. What can be such a common denominator, my fellow Members? I think it can be a common denominator that we love our homeland, respect what our ancestors left us, we want to raise our children in this spirit, and we see such a future for them, which would be a Hungarian future, we love our country, we love our homeland. State Secretary Balázs Orbán also spoke about the importance of the country and the nation. It seems to me that the country cannot be replaced by anything for all of us, because we have only one homeland, many things that bind us to it. The education of our children is essential to have a healthy sense of identity, to connect to Hungary, to Hungarian values, and, of course, to know national values. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we have written a programme named after Miklós Szemere. Miklós Szemere, a former Member of Parliament, did a great deal for the education of Hungarian youth in the late 1800s in the early 1900s. On his own estate, Pestszentlőrincen built the first shooting range and shooting house, where Olympic champions were prepared, for example, Sándor Prokopp achieved a successful Olympic championship gold medal, but the most important thing is that he formed the education, spirituality and character of Hungarian young people, brought the judo to Hungary, and also embraced and supported fencing. Through this, he was able to make sure that many young students and others could prepare for the different challenges of life. It is very important that this program, which we have written, starts with a series of competitions with Miklós Szemere's name. I hope there are as many people who want to do this as possible. The aim is to introduce the Hungarian national values, the aim is to introduce our Hungaricums, Hungarian literature, Hungarian culture, historical personalities and positive role models. We announced this program to fifth grade, sixth grade, seventh grade, eighth grade schoolchildren. I hope that as many people as possible participate in this programme. Through this, we can take a small step to make sure that our children are connected to our country and have a healthy sense of identity. Our goal is for young Hungarians to love Hungary, to love their country. That's what the Miklós Szemere program is about. I would like to ask all my fellow Members, with all due respect, of any party standing, to proclaim, assist and support the programme in its own environment. I think it is important for our children to be prepared in this spirit, and it is important that they have the skills to cope with the different dangers of the global world. What is the best we can give our children? As Goethe puts it, roots and wings. Join the country, the homeland, stand stable in the midst of the stormy world, even in the midst of a rapidly changing world, have wings to achieve great goals and remain Hungarian. That's what I wish for all of us. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to speak and for listening. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-24	Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2020-03-09-25	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear House,
u2020-03-09-26	Szilárd Németh, please turn on the machine. Thank you. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-27	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank you for the work you have done as a minister in the previous term, and now as a government commissioner for the patriotic and defence education of the growing generation of the future. [[14.10]] The strategic outline of this programme, which I can say, is almost a hundred pages of material, about which a large conference was held at the end of last year, not only our country, but also Hungary's winner, but above all the Hungarian Defence Office, which is called to defend Hungary armedly, the soldiers are armed in accordance with the toughest oath, where they offer their lives to defend Hungary, they can serve Hungary armedly. The Hungarian Defence Office is in a state now that it can perform this role well. If we look only at the tasks of border protection, in which the Hungarian Parliament can take part, on the basis of the ruling majority and the government's decision, then it is clear that the patriotic act in which the country's independence, territorial integrity, the security and freedom of the Hungarian people are protected is a very high recognition among Hungarian citizens. We can also say that the honour of the mundé is increasing and that our Hungarian soldiers are gaining more and more honor. It wasn't always like that. Between 2002-2010, the leaders of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government gave a false impression that Hungary does not need a Hungarian soldier, it does not need a Hungarian army, because it will be enough because of our NATO membership if the country is attacked if NATO protects us. This is a radical break-up, and we said that we need to strengthen the military and defence capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which is why we have decided on the programme of defence and defence development in Zrínyi 2026, and there we have made it clear that this is not only a question of weapons, not only a question of military means, it is not only a question of modernization, but we need to create a new spirited defence in order to create the most modern and powerful army in the region. So we put the man, the soldier, in the center. And here is the huge role of defence education, which, by the way, left quite a few things to be desired before 2010. If we just mention that the entire cadet program has been eliminated, if we consider that all the defence schools and colleges have been abolished, then I think this is pretty clear evidence that there was no will before 2010 to raise children in a patriotic spirit, there was no will to encourage children to choose the military profession, otherwise. And now you're telling us that the strategy you've worked out is underway with the Miklós Szemere program. We can see this on the Internet, by the way, with a separate website. Through the KLIK, the Klebelsberg Institute, all high school teachers and school leaders received information on how children can join this program. I would encourage everyone from here, every school principal, every teaching colleague, to encourage children to join this programme, and an important test sheet for patriotic military education, the first round of which has now been announced by the Commissioner of the Government, to be completed. Thank you again for your work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-28	Today's speech before the last agenda will take place on behalf of Fidesz. I give the floor to Congressman János Halász.
u2020-03-09-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The National Security Committee discussed current national security issues at its meeting last week. We have received information from the heads of our national security services on the current migration situation. It was a closed meeting, of course, the things that were said are a secret, they have the right rating, so no details, but we usually need to talk about the issue. We can conclude that Hungary is also at risk of a migrant flood from Turkey. According to the news, there are tens of thousands of migrants on the Greek-Turkish border and migrants are heading for the inside of Europe. By the way, the situation on the Balkan route is already very tense. Even without this, more than 100,000 migrants have been overrun, or even hundreds of thousands of migrants could be brought together. According to the news, Soros organisations have also been active, encouraging migrants. We all remember what happened in Röszke in 2015 when a few hundred migrants attacked police officers protecting the Hungarian border with violence. Now it could be even more serious. We can see on the news that migrants from the Turkish territory are still attacking the Greek border every day. Fortunately, Greece is protecting and protecting its borders for the time being. We have always said: wherever Europe's borders are attacked, it must be protected from illegal migration. It's nice and slow for today. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This conviction became a general European position, which Hungary expressed as early as 2015 when the first wave of migration reached Europe. Dear House, At the last meeting of the European Union Foreign Ministers, participants in Zagreb adopted a document to protect the external borders, ensure full solidarity with Greece and not tolerate illegal border crossings. That's right. By the way, that's exactly what we said in 2015. [[György Balla: That's right.]] Now the European Union has decided to help Greece immediately, which we welcome and support. It would have been good if Hungary had received and received help from Brussels to protect our borders. And it is important that all parliamentary parties in this situation support the protection of Hungary and the Hungarian people. But unfortunately, we see that this will leave us alone again. Gyurcsányek and the socialists have been criticizing Hungarian border protection from the beginning. Last week, the vice-president of the socialists was still suggesting that he thought the fence was unnecessary, he said it was not a real, but a psychological obstacle. Amazing, my dear House! Amazing! [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] We, the Fidesz, stand firm for both the fence, border protection and the temporary closure of transit zones. The borders of Hungary and the Hungarians must be protected. Whatever migrant wave starts, Hungarian border police organisations are able to operate a secure border lock. Dear House, This migrant flood can now increase not only the security threat but also the epidemic threat, as we hear from the news that the migrants that have just started are not coming from the Syrian territories, but most of these illegal migrants are coming from Iran or Iran. And Iran is one of the focal points of the coronal virus. Therefore, the Fidesz fraction is of the opinion that the government has taken the right and necessary decision to close the transit zone, since any infection must be prevented there. Dear House, Therefore, Hungary is also at risk of a migrant flood from Turkey. Even if the pressure and the migration wave were to sweep through the Western Balkans, Hungary would still have to protect its southern borders. We can't let anyone in illegally, and we mustn't bow to any pressure. We know that migration has been a matter of national security for a long time. Therefore, the fight against migration must be addressed in particular and regularly not only by the government, but also by the National Security Committee of Parliament in the coming period, and we have therefore initiated to provide detailed information at every committee meeting on the basis of our national security services. The Fidesz fraction fully supports the government's further border protection activities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-30	Once again, I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör.
u2020-03-09-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond in more detail to one aspect of the Member's speech, namely the coronal virus situation, and its law enforcement aspects. Because here in this House, too, I think it is worth drawing attention to the fact that foreign citizens also have an obligation to submit to the epidemiological measures, because if they do not, they may commit an offence or, in more serious cases, a crime, depending on the consequences of their actions. Foreign citizens who oppose may also risk their remaining stay in Hungary. There is also a specific reason why I bring this up in my reaction to the agenda. Among the nine coronal virus infected in Hungary, we find five Iranian and one British citizen, and one of the infected citizens is the university student who did not avoid community events despite warning from the university. [[14.20]] His case is instructive in itself. Two other foreign citizens refused to comply with the official epidemiological decision. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Furthermore, Saturday nights at St. Laszlo's Hospital had to ensure police presence so that foreign citizens would not leave the institution, and which is more serious or just as serious as not to abuse doctors and nurses. Now, as far as the migration aspects are concerned, and as is well known, the majority of immigrants arriving at the southern borders come from Iran or Iran, and it is not irrelevant that 54 thousand prisoners were released from prisons in Iran a few days ago in the context of the epidemic, directly in connection with that. This alone would be sufficient reason to monitor the situation with particular attention. This is why the government has decided not to accept asylum seekers in the transit zone indefinitely. This is also in the interest of those already there. The government also extended the crisis caused by mass migration. This would be justified even if there were no epidemic, because, as we have seen in recent days, Turkey has opened its borders. This is also a decision with serious consequences because of the [[Szabó Timea: Talk to your great friend Erdoğan! You guys always bring him here.]] Turkish leaders claim that we are talking about three, three, honourable Members, three and a half million people. And now they are moving towards Europe with all its consequences: health, safety and economic consequences. I would also like to report on another security-enhancing decision: the government has suspended the issue of visas to Iranians, and official experts have been continuously screening passengers from Italy, Germany and France, and flights from Milan have been suspended. Dear House, In the fight against the corona virus, our principles remain the same. First of all, the protection of human life is the most important, and then the economic consequences are assessed. Secondly, effective protection requires effort from all, not just an official and specialist task, but everyone must do their part. Accordingly, Hungarian citizens are also asked to keep an eye on the information provided by the authorities and to ask for understanding of cases where joint protection is an inconvenience. And as far as the government is concerned, I would also like to make it clear here in this House that the resources necessary for defence are fully provided by the government. There will be no financial obstacle to this struggle, the necessary resources are available, whether it be information actions or health measures. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-03-09-33	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Péter Ungár, LMP. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Anett Bősz, DK; Attila Mesterházy, MSZP; János Stummer, Jobbik; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Bernadett Szél, independent.
u2020-03-09-34	Dear Parliament, We now have a mandate certificate and an oath from our representatives. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued to Mr Gergely Kálló a parliamentary individual mandate which has become vacant due to the resignation of Mr Tamás Pintér. The committee for examining mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr Gergely Kálló's credentials on the basis of the electoral documents. Dear House, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity.
u2020-03-09-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér resigned on 28 October last year. At the interim parliamentary elections held since then on 16 February, Mr Gergely Kálló obtained a mandate. This mandate was issued to the electoral committee there, and the decision was final on 24 February at 4 p.m. Since then, the letter of appointment has been handed over on 27 February. Our committee met before today, examined the necessary documents and found them in order. Mr Gergely Kálló said that there is no conflict of interest in him, so the Committee on immunity unanimously recommends to Parliament that Mr Gergely Kálló prove his seat as a Member of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-09-36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, As we got used to it, the mandate is confirmed by the Parliament without debate. It's time for a decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to justify Mr Gergely Kálló's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The mandate of Mr. Congressman was unanimously confirmed by the House by 162 votes in favour. Dear House, Now it is the solemn oath of the elected representative and the signature of the oath papers. I would ask Mr Gergely Kálló to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask this House to stand up and listen to it as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Gergely Kálló steps into the middle of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2020-03-09-37	I, Gergely Kálló, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law. I'll keep his laws and keep them with others. I exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2020-03-09-38	I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Gergely Kálló and gives a copy of the signed oath document.]] I congratulate the Member on his election to Parliament and on my own behalf, and wish him good luck in performing his work. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Head of the Szabó Timea Group initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the T/7021 on the announcement of the climate crisis. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Member has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure. The joint debate shall take place on Tuesday 10 March 2020 at the first item on the agenda. The decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote shall take place at the meeting on 10 March 2020. [[14.30]] Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on the exceptional procedure without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I will ask the House to accept T/7021. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not accept the motion for an exceptional procedure by 47 votes in favour, 117 against and three abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we now decide on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of the proposals. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to invite the designated Cultural Committee on the work of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and on the general situation of Hungarian science in 2017-2018, B/8894. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion was adopted by 116 votes to 53, with no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the appointed Economic Committee to: B/9468 on the operation of entities exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State in 2018, on the development of state assets, on the processes of government wealth management. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion was also adopted by 119 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to ask the designated Committee on Agriculture, B/9470 on the state of the agricultural economy in 2018. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The motion was adopted by 118 votes to 52, with no abstentions. It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/9566 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2020-03-09-39	Dear Parliament, 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: the Parliament elects Mr.Zoltán Balczó, Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, to replace Tibor Bana, an independent, previously vacant vice-president. Point 2: Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Mr.János Stummer, Jobbik, instead of Gergely Kálló, Jobbik, member of the Committee. Point 3: Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: in the Legislative Committee Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik, membership of the Committee is terminated. Point 4: Point 3 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Alexov Lyubomirt, a minority advocate, and Erika Kissné Köles, a minority advocate, vice-president of the committee. Point 5: This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption. Budapest, 9 March 2020 László Fat House Speaker.
u2020-03-09-40	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Parliament to accept S/9566. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The proposal was adopted by 168 votes to none, with two abstentions. It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform the House that a motion to suspend the immunity of MP Máté Kocsis has been received 14.Bpk.41.351/2019/5. Pest Central District Court on a private charge. I gave this to the immunity committee to examine it. The immunity committee is H/9564. Mr Máté Kocsis presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The proposal for a decision can be found on the website. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal without debate. However, first I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame.
u2020-03-09-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At today's immunity committee meeting, the motion put forward by the President was presented to the members of the immunity committee. The immunity committee also followed up on my motion at today's meeting the unbroken practice of not examining the applicant's claims in substance, but of investigating whether it was a public accusation or a private initiative. Having faced this fact that this was a private initiative, the committee proposed to the Parliament, almost unanimously, by 5 votes in favour, against 1 vote, not to suspend the mandate of the Member on the matter in question. Thank you.
u2020-03-09-42	I would like to ask the congressman if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It indicates that it does not wish to speak, so it follows the decision. So the committee took a position that the MP's immunity would not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Máté Kocsis, MP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House did not suspend the immunity of the Member by 35 votes in favour, 127 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:38 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs with responsibility and competence shall respond to the interpellation. Congressman's got the floor.
u2020-03-09-43	Mr President, Dear House, There is a recurring topic between the government side and Jobbik, where, although we do not agree fully on all aspects, we were able to reach an agreement on this issue of migration. I would like to remind my fellow Members that when there was a national strategic interest in agreeing on the front of migration, this could have been achieved because, for example, it would not have been possible to conduct the defence in the border zone without Jobbik having provided two thirds of all this. At the same time, we do not agree on everything, because Jobbik is in favour of zero tolerance in this matter much sooner than we have been since 2010; we are the ones who have not assisted in any form in the establishment bond business supposedly loaded with corruption mechanisms. If the respondents wish to comment or allow time, we would still be interested to know in what form and how the residency bond business was worth to Hungary, as we see that there is a 10-billion-dollar budget payment in this respect, but again, this could be a sideline between us. The other issue that causes us to oppose the principle of zero tolerance is the question of foreign workers, migrant workers, if you will. Over a hundred thousand are the people who were imported here by Fidesz-KDNP. We say that if they are open to this, we will try to resolve this issue on our own initiative, by transforming vocational training, by bringing inactive young Hungarian rural people into action. And I must also say that when we talk about the protection of the border, once again, our openness is demonstrated by the fact that we have secured two thirds in relation to the conduct of the defence, and in all important strategic cases we stand in favour of the national interest. [[14.40]] That is why we are confused that our proposal to restore an independent border guard has simply not been able to understand, at least on the part of Prime Minister. We find it quite unprofessional and amazing that the government is trying to solve this issue forever with the combined forces of defence and police in an assumed migration emergency, which we cannot hold for three reasons. The first reason is obviously the need for special training and special tools, which could be best bridged. The second reason that a police officer or a soldier, when choosing a soldier's career, was not supposed to have thought that he would perform this service in the border until the end of time. Thirdly, we see that although the government has denied this, since the police forces have been taken away, the protection of villages and small towns has ceased partially or entirely. And we also see that the military is also needed in the classic field of action. Overall, therefore, our question is clear: why is the government incomprehensiblely shutting down the restoration of the independent border guard? Because we claim that in the middle of a migration crisis, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The country needs to have an elemental need. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-09-44	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2020-03-09-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You've completely deviated from the text of your written interpellation, which was called "The Protection of the Border"? I answer this unanswered but written question: It is important to the Government of Hungary, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the Hungarian people alike. And as long as this assembly works, and we can work to that end, I think that we are not making a big mistake, because the results speak for themselves. In September 2015, the Government of Hungary presented its proposal to the extraordinary parliamentary session to which you referred. We have created the triple protection, legal protection, protective protection, the participation of the defence in border surveillance, as well as the fence, and the second fence at the Hungarian-Serbian border was built on 28 April 2017. And we can say that, thanks to this triple defense, and in the presence of police, border fighters and defence forces, their devoted service can now provide protection that the Hungarian forces can defend the Hungarian borders and the southern borders against every attack. And I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who have supported this here in Parliament, because this is a national matter, it is a national interest. And I think that Hungary's police, border hunters and Hungarian soldiers will be recognised at European level, as the Member States of the European Union also recognise the service that, as a result, we can say that Hungary can protect the southern borders, not only from the point of view of the Hungarian people and Hungary, but also from the protection of the Schengen external borders, we also contribute to the security of the European Union, because those who do not enter the territory of Hungary at the southern border cannot attack Austrian ladies or gentlemen at Grabenen or Mariahilfer Strasse, or can not even reach the territory of Germany. So this activity is effective. Nor do I agree, honourable Member, that some settlements in Hungary remain without protection, because that is not true. Today, every Hungarian settlement is served by police. Today, the police can produce results that are more than 50 percent... compared to 2010 data, when the number of registered crimes per year exceeded 430,000, today, until early 2019, this fell to around 230 thousand. I don't want to jinx the result, but the 2019 result is even better, the number of crimes that have become known has fallen even more significantly. So the police perform the double task effectively, as they protect the southern border with the Homelanders, border fighters, and we can also move forward in the area of Homeland Security. Today, honourable Members, security is the most important Community value. And Hungary is a safe country today, thanks to these tens of thousands of policemen, border fighters and soldiers who serve Hungary's security. So I think that there is no need for organisational change in this area, because the system is functioning, under uniform control. Border hunting units are also serving within the police, border police directorates are operating. The necessary personal, material and material conditions are provided by the government for the successful operation of these units. And I ask you, honourable Member, that if it is not political gain that matters to you, if it is that this system is effective, that we can protect the Hungarian people, the security of Hungary, the Schengen borders, then accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-46	I ask the honourable Member to accept the answer.
u2020-03-09-47	Mr President, Dear House, We are separated by gaps with Mr. Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's right!]] You claim that alleged crime statistics have improved, while, in essence, the infringement threshold has been increased by 10 times. A lot of previous crimes are already a violation, and they come to us with statistics that mask the reality of Western and Wild West in all Hungary's districts and regions. What we see is that you ignore the problems of the people who live there. But we also see that when you christened the Keleti Railway Station to the Middle Eastern Railway Station, you were not at the height of the situation. I don't want to dig in the past. We should prepare for a future disaster, Mr. Secretary, and the fact is that you are presumably unprepared for this. I would be able to accept your answer if zero tolerance were to be imposed on you, whether it be a residency bond business, whether it be the mass introduction of foreign workers, or even the fact that you could explain to me, Mr. Secretary of State, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] why they share the possibilities of recording the CSOK with those who arrive here. That's why I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]]
u2020-03-09-48	I ask the House, and it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 48, with one abstention. László Varga and Sándor Szabó, representatives of MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-09-49	Thank you. [[His mic's not working.]]
u2020-03-09-50	Please turn on Sándor Szabó's computer. [[It's happening.]]
u2020-03-09-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 24 February, my colleague László Varga and I were waiting for the answer from Minister for Finance Mihály Varga to clearly state his support for the restructuring and reduction of the draft business tax. Please state clearly how you feel about what you said at the National Competitiveness Council as a proposal. We asked the Minister twice, and we did not get a clear answer. At the same time, it was somewhat clear from the reply that, in fact, the Minister is no longer so determined about this matter, nor is he thinking about it as he had said at the Council meeting, since he will continue to negotiate with the County City Association, I think, primarily because the mayor of two county-owned cities, Debrecen and Székesfehérvár, also said from their own party family that he would not support the transformation or reduction of business tax. We also encourage Minister to consider this idea, to reject his proposal to reduce the business tax, and to think on the contrary, about how more resources could be provided to the municipalities, how more resources could be provided to the municipalities. It is unfair that certain resources are simply collected in full by the State, and where this revenue comes from, but it refuses to return them. Consider, for example, the excise duty, the fuel part of it. This year's budget expects an income of HUF 750 billion, which is otherwise paid by road users who use municipal reserved roads. At the same time, the State does not return any of this revenue to the municipalities, nor does it return anything. Last week, the MSZP Group proposed that, in fact, at least one third of this 750 billion HUF, so that we return the smaller part of this to the municipalities, so that these municipalities can renew or develop roads. In view of this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether your minister, or the government, will clearly support you in the future, or reject the proposal to convert or reduce the business tax. Then I would ask you to answer this clearly, Mr Secretary of State, and also that, whether it is your minister, the government or you, Mr Secretary of State, you have supported that the municipalities have more resources to devote to road renovation and development. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2020-03-09-52	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the government's objective is absolutely clear, and this has always been the case in the last ten years: increasing employment, increasing wages, supporting families, supporting businesses, strengthening competitiveness and reducing administrative burdens in the area of taxation. There can be no other goal for a government, because if it were not, and it could not do so, then today we could not say that Hungary is one of the best countries in the Union, with an EU standard, that economic growth is outstanding. But if you were to ask yourself how the country got here, how a country in bankruptcy came from 2010 to be called one of the most growing countries in the Union today, then it must be in the answer, because the government was able to ensure the competitiveness of businesses operating in Hungary, compared to those companies operating in countries with a strong economy, which have a positional advantage because they are capitalist, yet they come to Hungary and choose Hungary as their place of business. How true this is: last year, the government was able to reach an agreement on 101 large investments with large foreign and Hungarian companies. This was an investment of HUF 1700 billion in the last year. To this end, the government must be able to reduce public burdens so that it can provide an economic environment for businesses in the country that is worth coming to Hungary. One element of this is the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 9 per cent. And yes, the local business tax is an important part of the Hungarian public burden-sharing system, which generates significant revenue for municipalities. In the last ten years, local industrialisation tax revenues have always increased by an average of 10 percent per year. And indeed, the Competitiveness Council has examined how, in order to further increase competitiveness, it is such a genre, that if we want to be competitive, we need to know how we can further reduce public burdens. This category includes local industrialisation tax revenue. This has been examined by the Competitiveness Council, it has made a proposal, but the decision has not yet been taken at government or other levels, the negotiations are ongoing with the municipalities, the small, medium and larger municipalities, and we are listening to everyone's opinion. As far as your proposal is concerned, it is quite incomprehensible, as this would mean a new fiscal policy, as global revenue is currently facing expenditure planning. What you want is for one of the taxes to be handed over to the municipalities for a specific purpose, I don't know what it is, I don't know what it is, it's not a responsible budget policy, it's a give-and-take, pull it, let it go, one hand in, and the other hand in there. I think that this whole budgetary approach should mean a restructuring of the entire budget system. Besides, the government has nothing to be ashamed of about the resources spent on road development. Over the last ten years, together with EU funds, we have spent HUF 2900 billion on road development and improvement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-54	In return, I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2020-03-09-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, Mihály Varga's comment was more hopeful. The Secretary of State was unable to reply clearly to support this proposal for a local business tax to reduce the revenue of municipalities, or not. For weeks now, they have not been able to give a clear answer to the municipalities about what they can plan for. According to experts, this means up to 80 billion losses to municipalities. And I can tell you, Mr Borsodi, Secretary of State, that this would mean a loss of more than $2 billion to Miskolc, the seat of Borsod County, so you could have really rejected this proposal. Furthermore, the National Competitiveness Council is a body created by you in October 2016, so your responsibility behind this is clear. The municipalities need not less, but more resources, so we have proposed, together with several fellow Members, that the extra resources from excise duty be given to municipalities for road renovation. I cannot accept your answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-09-56	I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 115 votes to 43, with one abstention. László Varju, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-09-57	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Of course, the most important thing is that the country is prepared to deal with the epidemic, but it follows immediately that our economy is prepared for its consequences. Travel restrictions, quarantines put in place to control the spread of the epidemic, lead to closure of the factory, cessation of services and slowing down production. The focus of the epidemic is China, which produces 20 percent of the world's GDP, but where the manufacturing industry's performance dropped to five months in January. There are thousands of containers in Chinese ports, and since there are hardly any products that do not have parts produced in China, the economic consequences will hit most industries. We're losing production. The most serious problem so far is the automotive industry, where the impact of the epidemic has already appeared in the lack of parts and its consequences. Some models had to be suspended, but Apple, IKEA and other Chinese manufacturing companies are also in difficulty, but let me tell you, there are times when this can be felt in Újpesten. Obviously, it is not among the thousand most important problems, but it will soon be felt in the production of Coca-Cola light and zero, because they can run out of calorie-free sweeteners that are produced in China. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But the demand has also decreased. The spending is becoming more contained because tourism, catering, and the interest in travel have been reduced due to caution, and the decline in production reduces employment and solvency. Large companies are having problems, and domestic small companies are having problems within minutes. But it could also be said that Japanese rail transport has decreased by 67 percent and air traffic has decreased by 57 percent. The economic crisis that you pulled out of last year as a boogeyman, at times, is knocking on the door. As supply declines, governments have little to do with what they can do, and expert signals to boost demand need to be taken into account. The immediate reduction of burdens, such as the tax credit for small earners, the reduction of VAT or public burdens on wages, should be addressed. The Democratic Coalition has therefore submitted a proposal in this respect. I would like to ask Minister what measures the Hungarian Government is planning to take to prevent or at least to reduce the decline that is threatening as a result of the epidemic. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-09-58	Thank you very much. Mr Varju will answer his interpellation question, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2020-03-09-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We believe that in the time of the government, it has recognised the risks inherent in the coronal virus, and accordingly it has taken precautions, since it has set up the operational tribe, which operates on a daily basis, takes appropriate decisions and monitors international developments. In this situation, honourable Member, the most important thing is to protect and preserve the health, safety and life of Hungarian people. Therefore, it is very important to be calm, responsible, not to cause panic, but to know exactly what the situation is and what is to be expected. [[15.00]] The government will do everything in its power to keep the people, the Hungarian people, safe. Yes, you are right, the economy is also affected by the coronal virus, but accept that the most important task at present is to protect the country from the epidemic, the most important task at present is to protect the country from mass diseases, but the most important thing at present is to prepare hospitals, health workers, even the Hungarian people, for how to protect ourselves, how to protect it from death from the coronal virus in Hungary, not to have an epidemic like that in other European countries, for example in Northern Italy. This is now the most important task and will prevent economic recovery. Because of what you described in your interpellation, and only in a small part told us how to reduce VAT, how to reduce social contribution tax, how to raise pensions, how to increase family allowances, I think we will have the opportunity to do so when we submit the budget law; we are expected to submit the tax law in May of this year, and then we can discuss it. I believe that the difficulties caused by the corona virus are not yet an opportunity to deal with these economic policy or other incentive measures. Indeed, it has an impact on the economy, especially in tourism, but temporary disruptions also occur in the supply of industrial parts. However, very positive news is that production in China is mostly returning to normal. As regards the challenges of the Hungarian economy: the structure of the Hungarian economy is strong, the structure of the Hungarian economy has been structurally transformed, it is changing, and the equilibrium processes have improved significantly over the past ten years. The Hungarian economy will continue to meet the challenges, as it has done in the last ten years, and I believe that the government has also met these challenges and has been able to overcome the difficulties and problems. You know that foreign currency lending and I'm not accusing you now, because it doesn't fit the issue of how much trouble it has caused the country, families, businesses, but you know that we have been able to reach a wage and tax agreement, which has greatly improved the situation of the country and the people, and I could tell you a number of things. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The point is that there is now an economic growth above the EU average...
u2020-03-09-60	Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-61	...and so the Hungarian economy is strong and prepared for the challenges. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Varju to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that after all, after the Minister of Health, which does not exist in Hungary, he tried to give at least an answer to his own territory, in the field of the economy, but I respectfully say that you have failed to solve this problem, because the economic crisis that may result from this situation is not a future vision, but you should take the related measures now. The Hungarian National Bank has already little room for manoeuvre because of its super-loose monetary policy, which is why the purchasing power of low-income individuals should be increased, who can quickly spend this to increase demand and thus help to eliminate the decline in demand. Their tax relief support system helps the rich and otherwise it does not help the people. Therefore, what you have said cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-64	Thank you. Congressman Varju did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 43 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, To what extent does the planning of the 2021 budget affect the historic low point forint? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2020-03-09-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga recently stated at a press conference that he felt that a stable and predictable HUF exchange rate was needed. He also added that although only 20 percent of the public debt is now in foreign currency, such weakening, which we experienced at the beginning of the year, is very painful; he acknowledged that it was very noticeable and could cause further problems. This also has a major impact on the fiscal law to be presented in the near future, in which it does not matter at what euro exchange rate the government debt is calculated. Every year, the Budget Act and its planning and submission are the most important legislative proposals for the country, which generate the longest and biggest debate, a lot of amendments are made, and every year it is of particular importance and the euro exchange rate at which the Minister of Finance calculates the level of public debt. It does not matter to the stability of the economy at which levels the euro/forint exchange rate moves. In the 2020 budget plan submitted in 2019, the government debt was calculated at a rate of EUR 320,9 in the 2020 budget, and we are practically at the beginning of the year, but the euro is already in the range of 335 to 340. Preliminary analysis shows that the continuation will not be more beautiful: economic experts expect the weakening to continue. György Matolcsy said that the National Bank does not have an exchange rate target, but your Ministry of Finance is thinking in a stable and predictable forint. With all due respect, if that is the case, what measures, according to the Ministry of Finance, can stop the further weakening of the forint. The Hungarian National Bank does not have an exchange rate target, but in what currency range does the Ministry of Finance consider the euro/forint exchange rate acceptable? To what extent does the historical low forint affect budget planning in 2021? And what are the effects of any further weakening of the forint? I am very pleased to hear your reply. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-66	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-03-09-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I think that the budget should not be feared by the Fidesz-KDNP government, the Hungarian economy at all. The last ten years have demonstrated that the Hungarian government is responsible for managing and is able to guide the country to the right path in economic policy and fiscal policy in a difficult crisis. But I remind you that your political allies, the socialist-liberal governments, have thought differently and acted differently, since they did destroy the country between 2002 and 2010. I just want to remind you that by the end of 2002, there was a 9.7 percent deficit, in 2006 it exceeded 9 percent, as a result of irresponsible economic policy, the public debt jumped above 80 per cent, the foreign exchange debt exceeded 50 per cent, and indeed in 2010 the Fidesz-KDNP government had to deal with this, and I think it has succeeded, because since 2012, the deficit has remained below the EU criterion every year, and in the long term, we have also been able to meet the objective of equilibrium government. As a result of the civilian government's crisis management and growth-enhancing economic policy, the Hungarian economy has been on a stable and balanced growth path since 2013, most sectors contribute positively to the performance of our country, and growth is not fueled by debt. [[15.10]] Yes, economic growth already exceeded 5 per cent in 2018 and 4.9 per cent in 2019. Since 2012, the government deficit has been stable below 3 per cent of GDP and the government debt has fallen to 66.4 per cent in 2019. These figures demonstrate that the government can manage it and take budget balance and fiscal policy in the right direction. As far as your question about the exchange rate is concerned, the Ministry of Finance is unable to influence or intends to affect the exchange rate of HUF. By the way, the MNB Act does not allow that to happen. Article 1 Paragraph 2 clearly states that the government cannot give instructions to the Hungarian National Bank, and the Minister of Finance respects and does so. Moreover, the Ministry does not have an exchange rate target either, as Hungary has a free-to-air exchange rate system, which means that the exchange rate of the forint is also affected by international markets. And the central bank, which is independent of the government, is monitoring these processes and is responsible for taking the necessary steps to safeguard price stability. As far as budget planning is concerned, it will not change, the practice will be that the Ministry of Finance will take into account the exchange rate corresponding to the average of three months, and will not make any predictions, as this practice and this experience has worked well. By the way, as far as the overall budget processes are concerned, you can see that Hungary's perception of both the budget and economic processes is very positive, as the credit rating agencies are grading the country. I think that this also justifies the country's fiscal policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Csárdi to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-69	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, His reply did not reveal to me who was ruling this country, say, in 2019, and who was ruling this country in 2020. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And in 2024?]] Because I think that breaking the parliamentary law is what we have heard here, because it is difficult to accept as a meaningful response a text intended for the 2009 budget contribution. I would like to note that the understanding of the text, let us say, is an exceptional advantage in the performance of the work of its representatives. [[Interview from Fidesz: Practice!]] I'll repeat the question because I didn't get an answer. So the question is, what measure would the Ministry of Finance stop the further weakening of the forint, i.e. a proposal to the Hungarian National Bank, for example, or I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance's opinion on the whole, and it is the Ministry of Finance's responsibility to determine how this exchange rate will influence the budget for 2021. So, unfortunately, I can't accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[It's constant noise. Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-09-70	Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply after it is believed that Congressman Csárdi [[Antal Csárdi: I said it!]] In his last sentence, he was there not to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Why is the public energy efficiency programme lacking in the government's climate protection action plan? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2020-03-09-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If the Fidesz government really wants to do something about climate protection and not just talk about it, as it has done so far, and as the opposition is accused of doing so, then it should start with the public energy efficiency programme. There is no more secure climate protection measure at home today than thermal insulation of homes, the replacement of windows and the modernisation of heating systems. This was the last time Fidesz gave Hungary an election programme in 2010, so even Fidesz thought so in 2010. I quote literally from the economic programme chapter. Each year, the renovation of 10 percent of the housing stock would pay off in less than 10 years, and it would also solve our environmental commitments. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, If they had started ten years ago, we could say today in Hungary that we are truly climate champions. But that's not what they did. We are now an EU country in the back on this issue. [[György Balla: That's not true!]] My fellow Members, Fidesz, I ask that you be restrained, because, according to the house rules, serious punishment can wait for such a serious House to be violated. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So the housing stock would also be considered state-of-the-art from an energy point of view, we would have no problem complying with EU emission reduction standards, and we should not be asking for immunity. Furthermore, the Hungarian people would live much better, as they could live in a comfortable apartment, their energy consumption could be reduced by half, and the country would need less energy, so there would be no need for expensive, dangerous and Russian addictive Paks II. But what did you do instead of what you promised? The panel program launched by previous governments has been stopped, so now only 30 percent of the panel apartments and, overall, up to 20 percent of the Hungarian housing stock are considered state-of-the-art. The rest are forced to heat the street and destroy the planet's climate. With long struggles, the European Union has been able to spend the money specifically on public energy efficiency programmes and non-refundable funding on itself instead of on Hungarian families. In addition, the Prime Minister's newly announced climate protection action plan simply excluded public energy efficiency measures that could be achieved without self-strength and bank credit. Dear Secretary of State, So I ask you, was the 2010 election promise a lie, or are you finally willing to provide a hundred billion-dollar amount of resources per year for non-refundable support for residential energy efficiency programmes. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-09-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda, to answer the question of interpellation.
u2020-03-09-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems from his suggestions that he does not follow the government's work too closely, so allow me to inform him that the government is treating the protection of the created world as a priority, he is aware of the importance and urgency of adaptation to climate change and of his duties as a result of his Hungarian involvement in it. As the Prime Minister said, the climate crisis is one of today's serious threats, and this is the government's position when he announced the climate and nature conservation action plan containing concrete measures in his annual speech. The Action Plan states that we must meet our 2030 targets in order to preserve Hungary and the Carpathian Basin for our children and grandchildren. Among other things, the action plan helps Hungarian households to make their own decisions on the extent and timing of their energy consumption, so by 2030 the government will install at least one million smart meters. It also shows that what you have said is simply not true. Honourable Congressman, Some people try to make a political fashion out of climate protection, and they try to hide their confusion with only beautiful, but in fact without content, and there are those who act to protect the created world, and the Hungarian government belongs to the latter. [[15.20]] For us, the interests of the Hungarian people are the most important, and Hungary is the first, and Hungarian people want clean water, clean air and clean environments, and also real and responsible action. The government's responsible climate policy meets this requirement. They contribute to the achievement of strategic documents, decarbonisation, adaptation and approach-forming objectives, through the implementation of concrete measures. They clearly indicate that the government also has strong plans and measures to improve energy efficiency in the general public, with the aim of reducing energy consumption and thus reducing financial expenditure. Our actions focus on clean, smart and affordable energy. Honourable Congressman, The government's position is that it finances, in particular, public tasks that cannot be avoided from the amount paid by taxpayers in terms of the country's operation. Nevertheless, support for residential building energy renovations will not be missed, and a new regulatory system is being developed in this respect, with the amendment of the regulatory framework and the involvement of market participants, on the basis of sound energy policy considerations. Our plan is to introduce, as two new instruments for energy efficiency policy, an obligation system under the Energy Efficiency Directive and to encourage the use of ESCO-type financing solutions. In the obligation system, companies selling energy are required to introduce programmes and implement measures that result in verified energy savings on the end-user's side. It is the task of the companies concerned to find the most cost-effective way of doing so, so that the introduction of the system is expected to achieve the economically optimal energy efficiency targets. Honourable Congressman, The government's main objective is to support the housing of Hungarian families. The renovation of rural dwellings is supported by unprecedented subsidies, such as village CSOK, the measures of the Hungarian village, and the heating-up support programme for district heating apartments is still under way. Please accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-75	Thank you for the floor. It was one of the rare times when I got the answer to my question. So the answer was that the ten-year election programme was being prepared, and that was the answer that I was sure that I would not be able to accept. Also, meters are provided by your action to protect climate change. Stadiums continue to build as we see it, but you don't do much for climate protection. By the way, today's decision describes their attitude to climate protection. So when there was a great deal of emphasis on climate protection, our proposal on the climate crisis was taken into consideration, but it is not on the agenda now. So when it comes to action, you don't act. I can't accept your answer.
u2020-03-09-76	Thank you, Congressman. The answer was therefore not accepted by the Member, which is why I am asking the Honourable Parliament and accepting the State Secretary's reply. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 44 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How can the consensual peace of society be protected from attacks on the Soros network? It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor.
u2020-03-09-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The general sense of justice in society has been greatly shaken by events that have witnessed and heard over the past few weeks. Whether the ten-billion-dollar industry called prison business or the segregation case in Gyöngyöspata, it can be found black and white that there is a strong agitation of organisations funded from abroad in the context of lawsuits that are binding on the Hungarian State to pay millions of dollars. There is nothing new during the day, as the provocators on the Soros Foundation's payment list have already tried to overthrow the democratically elected, legitimate national government and replace their own organized puppets. In order to achieve its goal, the Soros network activists did not shy away from the harassment of minority groups, the obstruction of Roma-Hungarian coexistence or the abuse of law. The deterioration of public trust in justice and the financial damage to the Hungarian state pricks the eyes of all our patriotic and sober-minded compatriots. That is why I think it is an excellent idea to launch another national consultation, which functions as a communication channel between citizens and government. In this way, a large crowd of Hungarians can express their views on the issues that determine their daily lives. I hope that the national consultation will provide an opportunity to establish points of agreement on matters determining public speech and seriously violating the sense of justice of society. Two things must be made clear to everyone: on the one hand, that sinners in our country are not rewarded, but punished, and, on the other hand, that no one has the right to interfere in the everyday life of Hungarian people with the deliberate generation of internal tensions. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State how the consensual peace of society can be protected from attacks on the Soros network. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-78	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the interpellation question.
u2020-03-09-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the answer is not easy. [[Defiance in the dialogue.]] The answer is not easy because there are several topics related to what you have said, and I will give you the headlines before you have fun here with representatives from different parties of different quality. Billion-dollar prison business, Gyöngyöspata Roma segregation and compensation, judicial corruption, conditional release of criminals, minor convictions, migrants' transport, border protection, fence or attack on legal protection: seemingly separate areas, seemingly separate ideas, but held together, and this is what George Soros's so-called civil society organisations are all about to take steps across the country on these issues. Prison business: while victims, victims, suffer no compensation, criminals and their lawyers filed 12,000 lawsuits against the Hungarian state, over 8,5 billion forints of poverty in the country, and, I add, burdened the court. Gyöngyöspata: the starting position is as follows: there was an infringement according to the court, and we accept that. The fact is that this infringement started in the days of Gergely Arató and Ferenc Gyurcsány, so in the days of DK-s, MSZPs, even if they were then called MSZPs. And while the kids were missing, they were skipping school while some of the kids were hanging out in Canada for six months while they were attacking teachers, threatening teachers, getting compensation, which means they want to get paid, while the children of the majority population of Gyöngyöspata are not going to school locally. Illegal migration: while organizing immigration, in Brussels, Strasbourg, Hungary, or fooling around in the institutions there, the country has spent more than 200 billion forints on defence, soldiers and policemen protecting the country with their lives. The Soros organization is the next topic. The Soros organization has given judges so-called sensitization, and while the minority part of the judiciary is likely to make outrageous judgments in criminal matters and economic matters, murderers are released, the vast majority of society is right to be outraged. Honourable Congressman, The national consultation will address these issues. Legislation has a duty to take the answers into account and to make decisions accordingly. Social consensus will be answered if the victim receives compensation and not the person who committed the crime, the crime; if the person who hangs out of the school, who threatens teachers, does not receive special support and special compensation; if the Soros organisations do not confront the Roma with the majority society, as they do now. [[15.30]] On one thing, however, I am not sure that Mrs Bangóné will not combine the next consultation sheet with another fit of rage, but I am sure that this will not affect the outcome of the consultation. Thank you very much for your question, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-80	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. I ask Congressman Salacz to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-81	Dear Secretary of State, In my view, national consultations represent a broadening of the democratic right of expression for citizens. In this way, the Government will develop its planned measures in consultation and dialogue with citizens. This also means a kind of feedback between elections. Previous national consultations, such as the 2012 economic consultation, the 2015 national consultation on immigration and terrorism, have all brought additional information to the government that has had an impact on legislation. I trust that the planned national consultation will also result in legal protection against attacks by the internationally funded Soros network against the sense of justice of Hungarian society. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And public confidence in the country. Mr Secretary, I respectfully accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-82	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What guarantees freedom of culture? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian citizens, concerned about the national foundation of culture, protested with this slogan in December when we discussed the package of amendments to the cultural law between the walls of this House, in which we then debated the merger of various cultural strategic institutions, the National Cultural Council and other amendments between the walls of this House. I have already explained in this debate that the type of behaviour Fidesz has shown in this regard is of great concern, since after Fidesz has harassed employees with the slave law, then has harassed science with the attachment of the research institutes of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, has harassed the universities, and then has started to harass the cultural professionals of Hungarian culture, and it is a thin consolation that the National Cultural Fund has then been removed from the line completely centralised by this legislative package, compared to the previously leaked draft. Jobbik is responsible for National People's Party [[Uproar, clearness in the pro-government benches.]] the culture and its cultural party, and we have always drawn attention to the fact that the kind of force policy with which the Fidesz government is concerned with Hungarian cultural life is, unfortunately, perfectly aligned in the anti-knowledge, science and intellectual direction that the research network of the already mentioned Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the limitation of the autonomy of universities and the most recent NAT in the field of education. I think that the centralising approach of the Fidesz government is very bad for the culturers of Hungary. We are not comforted by the fact that, among other things, the National Cultural Fund was released from this law following the protest of the Hungarian Academy of Arts set up by Fidesz, and I would like to draw attention in this interpellation to the fact that we may have very serious concerns that during the renewal of colleges, during the renewal of the colleges of the National Cultural Fund, decision-makers will once again not be guided by strictly professional considerations. I would also like to say and ask what will guarantee in the future that one of the important elements of cultural funding, such as the National Cultural Fund, is protected from further government centralisation, remains the autonomy of professional colleges, and it can be said that no political influence will occur during the renewal. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-84	Thank you very much, Congressman Brenner. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-09-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is possible for you to think immediately about the renewal of the cleansing because you are sitting in the Group of Jobbik, honourable Member, and for months you have been completely intertwined with the two concepts, the renewal and the cleansing. [[Uproar, constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] His own partymates are accusing each other of blackmailing each other right and left. They say such things as.I am very sorry that the Presidency of Jobbik has concluded from the slowly mass exit wave that it is necessary to publicly blackmail my fellow Members and me. I can't be blackmailed, so the few remaining faith in democracy is being taken away from people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, therefore, honourable Member, because you have such relations within your party, and those who do not submit to Ferenc Gyurcsány will be put on the ban list, you do not need to project this, you do not need to project everything you see around you, honourable Member. Your culture policy has been quite broad over the years. From the Kuruc.infós cultural circle to the completely liberal cultural perspective, it is quite wide spectrum that they could have had. I expressly reject what you said about the Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Arts or Hungarian higher education and universities, as one of the most recent university rankings, QS has also produced very good results in relation to Hungarian higher education. You said that there has been destruction here in recent years, if this had happened, Hungarian universities and colleges would not achieve such a good result on these international rankings. Honourable Congressman, There was no cultural institution of any kind that you mentioned in your list, and you may have read some bad news, honourable Member. He talked about last year's protests. Honourable Member, let us not forget that this was a protest when, for example, Gergely Christmas stepped up to the stage with your support, a politician who decided on theatre directors and said that it was necessary to prevent politicians from deciding about theatre directors. Greater hypocrisy, greater double-facedness, can hardly be imagined. It is only a question, honourable Member, that while there was a theater-financing system in the past that the majority of the funding was granted by the State, but in full, ownership rights were exercised by the municipalities at 100%, here, because there is a common funding for certain institutions, where there is total municipal funding, there is, where there is a state, but where there is common funding, there is a power which has previously been granted to the owner, which does not widen, but is not merely exercised by the Mayor, let us say, in the case of the capital, but is jointly exercised by the person who gives a large part of the aid, and this mechanism must be agreed on. This does not affect autonomy in any way, honourable Member, because the powers will not be extended, but the exercise of them will depend not only on the decision of the municipality but also on the joint decision of the municipality and the government. For us, it is extremely important to strengthen national culture, which we consider to be the basis of our identity. It shows the government's commitment to culture that while 0.6 percent of the total national product is spent on culture on the EU average, Hungary spends two and a half times as much and one and a half percent. While HUF 172 billion was spent for this purpose in 2010, this year's budget now includes HUF 578 billion. So not 172 billion, but 578 billion, and not the EU average, is just over half a percent, but one and a half percent of the total national product. The additional cultural funding system, which replaced the Tao grant, was also successful in the last year. There was an over-subsidisation in the individual thematic calls, so it turns out that the transformation was really good, both the tao-systemic transformation [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the amendment of the law of December last year, because it serves to strengthen Hungarian culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-86	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Brenner to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-87	Dear Secretary of State, I thanked you for your reply, which contains almost professional elements. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] which, unfortunately, I am not in a position to accept. [[15.40]] One symbol of your cultural policy is your answer, and the other is Szilárd Demeter, your cultural father. The Demeter Szilárd, who is still in place, even though he financed a programme that joked about the Germans' elimination in a shameful way, and led a cultural camp on your behalf, in the name of Fidesz, which he cannot win, because it would require cultural achievement that he cannot build, because he is moving in a foreign cultural environment in Hungary. So far, he's got a $25 million VW jeep with VW support. This is your cultural policy. Shame on you! I don't accept the answer! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-88	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What does the government do to strengthen and further develop the foster family system? Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2020-03-09-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the social objectives of the Fidesz-KDNP government is to develop and strengthen family-oriented child protection. We believe that family is one of the pillars of society, but many people do not have it. The family provides children with safety, love, and as many needy people as possible. In 2010, the government undertook to focus on foster parenting, so that children can live in families and see models for parenting and fathering, and have a family and community bond. According to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the number of foster parents is around 5800. They provide full care in their own homes to children temporarily placed with them. They promote the physical, spiritual, intellectual, emotional, and moral development of the child, the development of their personality, and prepare the child for self-management, basic personal affairs. This job requires a full man, so they deserve the highest recognition. The government has increased the appreciation of foster work in recent years. Thanks to the improved performance of the Hungarian economy, there has also been a significant increase in benefits to foster parents. In 2014, there was an employment relationship between the foster parent's profession, pay, pension, sick leave, and family tax relief for the foster parent. From January 2020, we introduced foster care. Dear Secretary of State, Currently, there are 23,000 children in the child protection system at national level, about 15 to 16 000 of whom live in foster homes, while 8 thousand live in children's homes. This is why last year the Ministry of Human Resources of the Ministry of Social Affairs organised the country-going tour of the Bebetlak programme, during which the events took place in 19 counties and in Budapest with a total of tens of thousands of participants. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's efforts to provide children without parents with the best possible conditions. It is important to further strengthen the foster care system and make the legislative environment more flexible. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what financial assistance the government has provided in recent years to strengthen the foster care system. What programs did the government launch, and how can the foster care system be further developed? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, this genre, which we call a foster parenting profession, is always the lesser evil at the beginning. If a child cannot grow up in a biological family and needs to be cared for, it is still better to grow up in a foster family, a third family, than to be institutionalized. That is why we have decided to give all the help and opportunity since 2010 who chooses this profession. I am pleased to say that last year, the number of people with such employment rights indeed increased by 150. Nearly 6 000 people are authorised to operate, and there are 5452 foster parents in Hungary today. What we have done is likely to be steps, and it is certain that steps that have contributed to this growth: the introduction of an employment relationship in 2014. Let me just give you one figure to show this: before that, a foster parent received 15,000 forints, today he receives about 3-4-5 times the number of children he raises. Indeed, this benefit also entails an insurance contract, and it gives the right to a family tax allowance and a contribution allowance to those who make use of it. From 2015 free textbooking and free institutional catering were introduced for the foster children. A new form of family support was introduced from 2020. This means that foster parents under the age of two are also entitled to the child. This is the foster-parent facility. I can give fresh data to the Member: this is January data: 327 foster parents who have now lived with this right and have been able to receive extra support. In addition, last year the St. Anna Prize was introduced, which means an award that foster parents receive every year. It was handed over here in Parliament. Indeed, we have started the.I accept you, because we are sure that this is not just the government, and not just the task and territory of professionals. This profession can only be brought to fruition if there is an acceptance and acceptance throughout society that can recognise this profession. Those who strengthen Hungarian families as foster parents also take nation-building responsibility with their work, just in the case of the most needy children, and it does not matter what the Member said, 23,000 children, what the fate of the 23,000 children will be. The 23,000 children will also have children, and in the case of a target group of this mid-town size, it does not matter whether their children will be dependent on the social institutional system, or whether they will be taxpayers as family founders and income providers. As a result, today I can say that 68 percent of children in child protection are in foster care. This song has never been this high. For children under the age of 12, this is 85 percent, and for children under the age of 3, 86 percent, so it was almost possible to make sure that these children were raised in foster care wherever possible. Last week, a documentary entitled The Received Ones was presented, trying to process these fates. We'd like to get it as wide as possible. In the future, we will continue to develop family - centered child protection wherever possible, with families instead of institutions, children who cannot grow up in a biological family. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-92	Thank you, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. I ask Congressman Szászfalvi to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-03-09-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think all the steps that the government has taken in recent years, the measures, the forms of support, the programmes that it has launched, all served the children of Hungary and most of all the children who really need us to create a social environment that will help them complete their lives so that they can truly live a full human life. It is important that, in the light of the experience gained so far, and possibly by expanding the legal environment, we can further strengthen the foster family network, community, and that these foster parents may be given more opportunities to adopt later. On this basis, I respectfully accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-03-09-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman Székely has the floor. [[Sándor Székely: No sound!]] Congressman Székely's computer should be turned on. [[It's happening.]] Is it okay now?
u2020-03-09-95	Hello. Yeah. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Each month, a KSH data comes out, in which wages increase by 10-13 percent in Hungary. According to the latest one, an average Hungarian worker now takes home 400,000 forints in gross. This is also important because this is what our pro-government colleagues base their communication on, that everything is fine in Hungary, the economy is raging, and it has never been better to live in Hungary in the last 1100 years. I would like to ask my fellow pro-government Members that they seriously believe this figure and that the average wage is 400 thousand forints. Even the portfolio.hu, your economic newspaper, doesn't confirm this, but let me tell you how things work in Hungary. An average worker is usually declared on minimum wage, and in good case he receives some black money from his boss, because the tax burden is so great that companies cannot manage it, and he also works in second or third jobs. That's how firefighters install lights on weekends, nurses go to the house after 24 and 48 hours to nurse, teachers and kindergarten workers take care of children on weekends, or maybe clean up. Well, that's how ordinary people earn 400 thousand forints in Hungary. They burn out, they're depressed, they live day after day, they don't know what's gonna happen to them at the end of the month. Of course, it wasn't better before your administration, but what's been happening in the last ten years is truly outrageous. They say the billions of euros have flown here, the foreign economy has rumbled, and now we're talking huge inflation, the forint is breaking in, the people's salary is under the bottom of the frog, and over the last ten years, you've been the only ones who've built up amazing reserves, people haven't, and there's a next global crisis. For months, I've been asking different ministries to release the median wage data. As we know, this is the calculation that really shows how much people earn in Hungary. This is rejected with all kinds of said horse-zung, so I am asking you now, how much is the median wage in Hungary today, and why you cannot tell me in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-03-09-96	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-03-09-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As we listened to your speech earlier, I think we may have felt as if we had been in Parliament a long time ago. The situation you were trying to paint was indeed correct in Hungary, but the Prime Minister was then called Ferenc Gyurcsány. You know, he's the man who gave you a parliamentary mandate, and I don't know how you talked to him about these issues when he was discussing how he could slip into the Parliament on the tail of the Democratic Coalition. Honourable Congressman, You spoke as if you didn't know that the number of people employed exceeded 4.5 million. This is the first time since the change of regime. You have also ignored the fact that, compared to 2010, since your ideological allies Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai have completed their activities, there have been around 840 thousand more people working in Hungary. On the other hand, unemployment has steadily increased during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. Do you know the unemployment rate in 2010? Twelve percent. How much today? Record low, 3.3 percent. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian economy grew by almost 5 percent in 2019, and last year the government managed to achieve the most significant debt reduction in the last 20 years. Real earnings have been growing unbroken for 83 months. In the first 11 months of 2019, the public sector accounted for 11.5 percent in the competition sector and 7.7% in the public sector without public employees, compared to the same period of the previous year. Real wages exceeded the same period of the previous year by 7.6 percent. There has been significant wage increases in, inter alia, other services, agriculture, industry and construction and trade. Since 2010, net earnings with a family discount have increased by more than 90 percent, which shows that living in Hungary is getting better and the situation of families has improved steadily. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage increase of 8-8 percent, increased labour demand and regional wage competition mean that the dynamic increase in earnings is expected to continue in 2020. Honourable Congressman, And what he said to the employers' burdens is more than just untruth. This government is the government of tax cuts, and if you think about it, you know exactly who the people in the tax increase are: your friends and allies. One of the fundamental elements of our economic policy is the tax reduction, and in recent years the government has made significant tax cuts, which have contributed to the success of Hungarian economic policy. Hungary is currently the largest tax reduction in the European Union. The employer's tax was reduced to 22 percent in 2017, 19.5% in 2018 and 17.5 percent in July 2019. Today, instead of 27 percent in 2010, businesses have to expect 17.5 percent employer tax. We've reduced the corporate tax rate to a record low to nine percent. Do you know, Congressman, before 2010, what the tax burden of an average medium-sized company was? It was between 52 and 56 percent. Today it's only 36 percent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Székely to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-99	Wait a minute. [[He's strapping up his microphone.]] The fact is that in the last one minute, in four minutes, I've heard a fantastic number or heard a number, but a number didn't say how much the median earn in Hungary, and I asked him about it. They don't tell me in vain, because they know it's extremely few, especially compared to the numbers you lie about every day in the media, so unfortunately, I can't accept that answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-100	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. When will they finally answer our questions about pensioners? What is your response to a sharp increase in pensions, which has also fallen short of inflation, to the unchanged minimum pension for 12 years, to the loss of compensation for invalidity pensioners? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2020-03-09-101	Fellow Members! Dear House, The fact is that the interpellation must be submitted to the minister, and my interpellation begins as follows: Mr. Minister! Let me just start by saying, when are they finally going to answer the questions about pensioners? What is your response to a sharp increase in pensions, which are also falling short of inflation, to the unchanged minimum pension for 12 years, to the loss of compensation for invalidity pensioners? Every time we've asked these questions, every time we've told them what retirement problems are, they've been delirious. I've inherited Bence of Rétvári to this day he's been able to last eight years while you've been ruling for the last ten years. That's the opening line. [[16.00]] Well, let's see what's going on. It has not passed a session in Parliament that these questions have not been put on the agenda of the committee meeting or here, before the plenary session, and no session has passed that any parliamentary group has not dealt with these problems, and not only I, no one has ever received answers to these questions and problems in recent years. There are some issues here that I think a responsible government should reflect on. In recent years, there has been a very commendably significant net wage increase, almost 12 percent in the last year, but if we take the last five years and not take this one year into account, in the last five years there has been about 9 percent net wage increase. As a result, a 2.8 percent pension increase was made this year, with a 2.7 percent pension increase last year, so that it was possible to know precisely when the budget law was submitted that this would increase inflation, as the central bank publishes its forecasts every year. Compared to that, the government doesn't seem to hear these suggestions. Consequently, pensioners, if they receive this increase, which the government submits and accepts in the draft budget law, will lend to the government for ten months. That's one thing. The other thing is, we see that they operate on us, of course, by handing out these chicken potatoes, and there's also some reclaims, just this, please, is not a pension increase, it's not going to be included in pensions, and consequently, the next year's pension increase will not be affected, neither by the requisition or the potato distribution. That's one of those questions. The other: if we see the problems and the opposition parties made a proposal, for example, the inflation follower [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] versus a pension increase, the mixed indexation [[The president's ringing again.]] , that should have been answered...
u2020-03-09-102	Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-103	...Dear Secretary of State, for you. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, with the remark that the text of the interpellation was correct in substance.
u2020-03-09-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It would indeed surprise me if you could read it in three minutes instead of five pages of interpellation. In any case, those who deceive pensioners, honourable Member, are you. When you first governed Hungary, in democratic conditions, you introduced the Bokros package under the Horn government and wanted to tax pensions. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Then, when the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era came, they again ran into taxing pensions, taking a month's pension from every Hungarian pensioner, raising the rent fifteen times, and in all other ways where possible, either by raising the prices of medicines, the hospital's daily allowance, the visit fee, they made the weekdays of pensioners more difficult, honourable Member. So they have a lot of remorse, I think, because you are the only government in the last thirty years, since 1990, which has reduced pensions, and that is why they are trying to make all kinds of accusations here in Parliament, but it was your government that took a month's pension from the Hungarian people, and it still left a HUF 357 billion hole in the pension register. Honourable Congressman, If we had introduced the pension calculation method proposed by you in the years following 2010, the pensioners would have received an average of HUF 5 000 per month and HUF 60,000 less per year; what you asked for here, if we had introduced it in 2010, would have been 60,000 minus a year for pensioners. Not to mention, if we had listened to you, we wouldn't have introduced 40, because you were against it here, within the walls of Parliament. We agreed to protect the value of pensions. We have honoured this commitment, we have raised pensions by 38 percent since our government, and this represents a 10.3% increase in purchasing value in pensions. We have set up a system in which pensioners should not suffer ill, since if inflation is lower than planned, the difference will be incorporated into their pensions, if it is higher, the state will subsequently replace the entire amount retroactively and the difference will be incorporated into pensioners' pensions from the following year. Who has a pension, honourable Member, the number of their own insured years and the extent of their earnings, which affects it, is nothing else, but this formula that prevails. You're talking about the government handing out pennies to pensioners here. Honourable Congressman, That's 273.5 billion forints, which you generously treated as a penny for pensioners. In the form of an Elizabeth voucher, in the form of a pension premium, in the form of a one-off allowance, in the form of a pension certificate and in the form of a pension supplement, this was HUF 273 billion in the last few years. So whoever tries to fool the pensioners is you, honourable Member. [[György Balla: That's right!]] And if you talked about the degree of deprivation among pensioners: according to Eurostat, the poverty rate for people over 65 was 19 percent at the end of your governance, now 14.5. A quarter of the poverty rate over 65 has disappeared. If you look at how many people were in severe material deprivation, that was 16.2 percent at the end of your government, now that's 6 percent. Two thirds of the needy have disappeared according to this statement. If you look at the number of countries with a lower poverty rate in the European Union than in Hungary that you often criticize, well, you find five such a country, Slovakia, France, Greece and Luxembourg. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Better results than these, but by the way, in Hungary 9.7 percent [[The president's ringing again.]] which is far better than the EU's 14.5 percent. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2020-03-09-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Korózs to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-107	You didn't answer any of the questions asked at the beginning of my interpellation, Mr. Secretary. You talked about everything. By the way, such a sociology methodology lesson will also be worth taking to the Secretary of State. It's just for the record that you don't want to set the pension supplement as an extra bonus, because that would have been a good thing for the pensioners from January. So that's one of the minuses right there. The second is to clarify: the inflation-following pension-raise technique is a scam of the century, here all pensioners who, let's say, receive a pension during the average pension, and two thirds of pensioners do not get the average. From now on, Mr.Dear Secretary of State and honourable House, it is a matter of people who have lived a miserablely low pension in the last year, Viktor Orbán guarantees him that he will live miserablely on few pensions again next year, because he will only increase his pension in the following year by as much as the rate of loss of money. Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Bravo! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-03-09-108	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 45 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why does the government not provide adequate information on issues related to the Crown Virus? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2020-03-09-109	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I'd like to remind you that we're not doing this over and over again because we're trying to start a panic. [[Voices from the pro-government benches: Ah!]] On the contrary, we say it every time because it would be the government's job to provide and provide the right information, and every time we find that this information is cancelled or, if there is, late. The fact that there are now two extraordinary press conferences a day where they don't say anything, doesn't mean much and doesn't add much. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] , since they share the same information which is otherwise available. It shows your attitude that you are unable to comment on this and that you are willing to listen calmly. And by the way, you're talking about the opposition's lack of calmness in this matter. So even though two press conferences are held daily, if these press conferences do not provide accurate information, answer questions, or answer questions, they give absurd answers, like when the Minister for Education said that for one day they could not tell which higher education institution a student attends. I have to tell you because to see the positive, it's good news that an Internet information page has finally started. And the good news is that a fraction of the government's budget for propaganda has finally been transferred to meaningful public information. [[16.10]] That's good news, but it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Government, If it took ten days to start a regular website because it took so long after the announcement, what happens if something really goes wrong? We've been saying for a month that people need to be informed. What took you a month to commit to providing meaningful information? ! This information is still very limited, as, for example, it is still suggested that green numbers be sought either by the infected or by interested citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, This green number is unattainable. Look, there are a number of reports that patients, general practitioners are looking for him, and no one's answering the phone. I was just reading a report where a man with symptoms who had returned from Italy could only call the green number at 4:00 a.m. because he was not available all day. So my question is why citizens are not given adequate, credible and rapid information. Why not use the huge amount of communication available for quick and credible information instead of bogus consultations or lying billboards? Thank you for your answer, if you will. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-09-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 27 February, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, held a seven-party briefing on the state of play in the fight against the Crown Virus on the representatives of the parliamentary factions in the Ministry of Interior. We were able to welcome you to that briefing, even to talk to you, if you remember, before the briefing. You gave a positive statement on the government's actions and endorsed the measures that the government has taken so far in the fight against the coronal virus. The discussion at which Mr Tamás Harangozó was also present and the representatives of all the parliamentary parties were present was that this was a national matter in which we need to join forces in order to fight effectively and we welcome all kinds of proposals. The request for information on the fight against the Crown Virus was made in this prospectus. This leaflet, this daily report, will be sent to you every day, and you have received it, and we welcome the proposal. For example, Mr Bellozó made his proposals today at 12:48 p.m., which, by the way, will be examined in substance. Thank you. We thank everyone who has proposed it, because it is very important to be able to work effectively on this issue for the health of Hungarian people, to act effectively, and to be able to work effectively together with the operational staff, the national chief doctor, general doctors and hospitals. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that until now, the access to Internet information has been four and a half million, and I think this number speaks for itself. The information will be kept every day by the operational tribe and will bring the latest information to the public every day in order to be able to cope effectively. I would also like to state here in front of this House, informing you and this House that we are cooperating with the World Health Organisation, the EU Health Organisation, with the neighbouring countries in order to ensure that the fight against the Crown Virus is successful. This is a very big task, Congressman. This is a very big task and we want to act effectively, so we will do everything we can, and the government will provide all the resources to ensure that general practitioners, hospitals and healthcare institutions are able to act effectively. There is no material barrier, the necessary medical staff, doctors, nurses are available, hospitals are available. Honourable Member, we can say that we have every chance of effectively fighting the coronal virus and protecting the health of the Hungarian people. I ask you, I ask the parliamentary factions, because this issue has been discussed several times before today's agenda, this problem, and it is likely that it will also be discussed in the immediate questions, so that this issue is not used for political gain, but, as promised at the Home Minister's briefing on 27 February, you will also help us to ensure that this fight is effective and that we can act in the interests of the health of Hungarian people. Once again, there is no financial obstacle to effective action, we do our best, all the conditions are available, but the task is great. That is why we need to establish a national cooperation on this issue, and the only way we can do that is if we can count on you. We are also asking for your proposals, and we are looking forward to it, because this is a matter that is very important to all of us. I'm asking you to accept my answer if that's what you think. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Well, what does Congressman Gergely Arató say about all this? [[Defiance.]] Will you accept the answer?
u2020-03-09-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for answering the question and not, for example, going back 100 or 50 or 10 years. However, I cannot accept your answer because you may remember this meeting badly, but I do remember that there was no answer to the question of when general doctors would receive adequate protective equipment, when this particular website would start, which then started a week later, or just why they would not check the entries to Hungary at the Schengen land border, let us say, at the Slovenian or Austrian border. We didn't get an answer there, Mr. Secretary, and we haven't had an answer since. I'm sorry, but from here on out, I have to say that our willingness to cooperate is one-sided. Although there is no doubt that we are trying to help you with questions and suggestions, I also sent you a longer series of suggestions on Friday, but unfortunately we do not get correct information from the opposite direction. So I don't accept the answer. Thank you. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-09-114	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 43, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When will a real-value wage increase be given to workers in the social sphere? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2020-03-09-115	Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[To Attila Philip:]] Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for coming to Parliament and asking you questions. The fact is that the social sector received a wage increase on 19 February, which announced a wage increase of 14 per cent by EMMI, and this, as the EMMI, admitted, although it contained an 8 per cent wage increase due to the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, it said another 6 per cent. It's important to look behind the numbers and see what this additional 6 percent meant. The most important problem for this 6 percent is that this did not happen by raising the basic wage, but by raising a supplement. Therefore, this 6 percent increase does not constitute a pension fund. By the way, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to consider this 6 percent increase, not as a percentage of the average wage for social workers, but as a nominal basis. In most cases it does not reach 10,000 forints. So the thing is, at the moment, trade unions representing social workers are on strike, they want to strike. This is not because they are surrounded by some foreign conspiracy, but because there is currently an unbearably low wage level in the social sector. The fact is that right now, as a result of your completely incomprehensible and messed-up wage bill, a man who worked 18 years in the social sector with a degree and a freshly graduated beginner often earns the same amount. People who have a professional degree, often a higher education degree, are not appreciated, which is why my fellow Member, Mr Hohn, proposes the introduction of a guaranteed minimum degree, which would mean that those who have obtained a higher education or a vocational degree would receive more. This is the sector that takes care of people that no one else would care for. I think it is a national consensus, and everyone in this House agrees that the wages of social workers should be increased. Everyone knows what kind of life-style people get in here. The fact is, however, that you have not satisfied the workers or trade unions by raising this bonus, you know precisely that this is not enough, you have done so simply to try to avoid the strike. [[16.20]] They won't be able to avoid a strike, sooner or later the court will be able to say when and what the service will be sufficient, and then it won't be enough to send a deputy secretary of state to negotiate with union leaders without a mandate. Before you answer, I would like to tell you that I graduated from high school in 2009, so I was in high school in a large part of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-116	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Attila Philip, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-117	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the beginning, please allow me one sentence: the interpellation as a parliamentary control tool has been made a tool for misinformation with greater determination and dynamism than average. A few objective data on what was said. The Ministry didn't admit it, but announced the fact of the wage increase. From the beginning, we said 14 percent, and this 14 percent includes the combined effect of wage and bonus increases. In English, the person who works in the social field receives a basic salary, and there is a regular allowance for that. The regular allowance against the Member's statement entails a contribution, including a pension. Where there was a minimum wage increase, it is part of the 14 percent, where there was no wage increase resulting from the minimum wage, there is a person who receives all 14 percent in the form of a contribution. So it's not true that 6 percent was raised. Nor is it true that a few thousand, five to ten thousand forints, I believe, have been mentioned before in the scale of the real increase. The decision appears to have been published in the Hungarian Gazette, so it is quite simple to trace back that the minimum increase is 21 thousand forints, the highest is 58 thousand forints, and the average increase is 30 thousand forints. Just as I think it is important that a total of 84 thousand people, regardless of their institutional support, have received this increase, regardless of whether they are professional or technical workers. It has also been said, not now, but in the statement of the previous week, that we have done nothing but to preserve inflation. Well, inflation is 3.4 percent, and here we're talking 14 percent. So this claim will not stand up. I understand that you made a reference to 2009 but it is important to compare it. Compared to 2010, the average social wage increases from HUF 137 thousand to HUF 296 thousand this month, including this increase, i.e. nearly HUF 300,000. This means that in ten years these governments have increased by 115 percent. Between 2002 and 2010, the really sensitive left-wing-liberal governments in this area increased this amount from HUF 87 thousand to HUF 137 thousand, which represents 58 percent. I apologize for the difference in two years, it's not a government decision, it's a voter's will, so I can only compare eight years to ten years, but the point is that the average wage has increased by 115 percent. I think we fully agree that this is an area, especially when someone's family is cared for, where all the money in the world is worth taking care of is that it's okay. But it is also likely that Congressman knows that the government has the means to help us step by step. I think 14 percent this year was exactly such an important step. I have only one request left, after the Member has the sensitivity to the social area, that, if he really wants to help, he should do one thing to protect at least those who work in the social field from this type of misinformation, I think that this could express their appreciation. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Ungar to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2020-03-09-119	The thing is, the things you've told me, they look really good on paper, and it's good when you go on television and you ask questions, but there are 15,000 people missing from the sector right now. Most of the people who work there are already in retirement. What you are talking about may be so in propaganda and in EMMI press releases, but not in Hungarian reality. Look at the difference between the average wage in the social sector and the average wage in the market in 2010 and how much it is now. It's a substantial piece of data. Of course, if wages increase and wages increase in the social sector, it is very good, but there is competition not only within the sector, but also between private wages and prices. I can't accept that answer. But it doesn't matter that I can't accept it, but social workers can't accept that this government will raise allowances after ten years instead of finally settling the wages of those working in the social sector properly.
u2020-03-09-120	Thank you very much. Please wave with your head to accept the answer or not. [[For signal:]] No, thank you. Dear Parliament, I ask you to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 45 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, Why does the HCSO not publish the median wage data? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Every day we hear triumphant news about the increase in average wages. That's great, that's really great. Who doesn't want such good news? On the other hand, when I speak to the voters, they are shocked to hear these numbers, saying that they have never seen so much money on their paycheck. How is that possible? The fact is that many have increased their income. The assets managed by private bankers in Hungary increased by more than 20 percent in 2019, with nearly HUF 5700 billion in nearly 45 thousand customer accounts. But, ladies and gentlemen, can this comfort those who live below the minimum living standards, who are about a third of the population, once again, a third of them? And we don't know that from the KSH, but from the Policy Agenda, because KSH stopped calculating the minimum of living a long time ago, because the numbers were too embarrassing. By the way, the average income of KSH is bleeding from multiple wounds. The statistics are 1.7 million workers once again: 1.7 million workers do not deal with their earnings at all, they do not deal with workers in enterprises under five, who are otherwise suspected to be below average wages. A promise has been made earlier that KSH will switch to the tax authority database, so average wages will be calculated from the full range of data, but this has not happened to date. But from the data, if you look at them in detail, there's a completely different picture. The figures clearly show the shocking reality: nearly 1.3 million people, more than a quarter of the workers, have a lower salary than the minimum wage. And it can also be seen from the numbers of the KSH that three quarters of the employees are earning below the average wage. In fact, inequality has grown to such an extent that 10 percent of the best earner earns as much as two thirds of the workers earn less. With such inequalities, the average wage shows nothing. So I ask Mr Secretary of State when the HCSO will calculate various wage statistics from tax returns. When are you going to tell us the median values that can no longer be used for anything besides a mathematical average, or rather a much better reflection of reality? I look forward to your reply. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-03-09-122	Thank you, Congressman Burány. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-03-09-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is a great pleasure for us that the performance of the Hungarian people and the work of the government are finally appreciated by the opposition, as you have just acknowledged. [[16.30]] Hungary is also performing better in terms of wage growth. Since 2010, net earnings with a family discount have increased by more than 90 percent, and this figure shows that living in Hungary is getting better and the financial situation of families is improving. Thanks to these measures, for the first time since the change of regime, the number of employees exceeds four and a half million. Compared to 2010, some 840,000 more people are working and real wages have been growing for 83 months. The results of the government's employment promotion measures have also been recognised by the European Commission in its latest country report. Honourable Congressman, Interestingly, when you were in the government, you did not experience any problems with the operation and methodology of the independent Central Statistical Office. Let's just say the indicators at the time probably felt better not to publish them. Because let's look at the data, Mr. Congressman. In 2004, when you were the Minister for Employment and Labour, unemployment levels were significantly worse than at present, reaching around 6 percent. Hungary was one of the EU's hosts with an employment rate of well below 60 percent and 56,6 percent. In the year of accession to the EU, only Bulgaria, Malta and Poland were preceded in terms of employment, compared with a rate above the EU average of 70 per cent today. Honourable Congressman, Since 2010, the real value of net earnings has increased by almost 60 percent on average, taking into account family benefits. I would remind you once again that during the Balliberal governments, from 2002 to 2010, real earnings increased by only 13.8 percent. This clearly shows that under civil governments, real wage growth was more than four times as high as under your governance. The European Commission report also acknowledged, as I have already said, the increase in wages, in which the continuous increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage played a major role. Honourable Congressman, The government's main objective is to increase employment and wages. Thanks to the responsible policy, economic growth and tax cuts have led to an increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage last year and 8-8 percent this year as well. As a result, there has also been a substantial increase in higher wage categories. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Central Statistical Office has been producing earnings statistics according to internationally accepted and established methodology for decades. The HCSO also collects statistics on earnings from 2009 on the basis of a number of sources. It produces and publishes monthly staff and earnings information from so-called contributions declarations received from the NAV and, for budgetary bodies, from data received from the Hungarian Treasury. At the same time, it led to earlier monthly institutional labour data collection. The development has led to a significant reduction in the reporting burden and, on the other hand, the data source has an extraordinary excess of information compared to the previous one. Basic information that has not yet been available for the collection of the HCSO could thus be calculated. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-124	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. I will ask Congressman Sándor Burány to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2020-03-09-125	This answer cannot be accepted for a number of reasons. Let's start with the personal part. You know, Mr Secretary, when I was a minister, a large number of employees were not included by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office either by foreign workers or by public workers, unlike the current situation. So don't be so proud of that. This number is as distorted as the average wage calculation. I have just told you with clear Hungarian words why average earnings are not worth anything in a society where income differences are increasing between the poorest and the richest. I'll show it to you in case you understand. Three patients are in a ward. Their average body temperature is 36,6 degrees Celsius. You think it's probably okay, there's nothing we can do. It's just that one of them has a temperature of 40 degrees, and two patients have a temperature of 35 degrees, and they're on the verge of getting cold. [[Noise, interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] If you don't think there's anything to do here, then don't go near a hospital, stay here in Parliament, it's still better to give such meaningless answers, [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's like making meaningful decisions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-09-126	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes to 40, with one abstention. Dear Parliament, The last interpellation will take place within the agenda. László Böröcz and Gyula Budai, representatives of Fidesz, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:, How can people's sense of justice and the purity of local public life be protected? Mr László Böröcz has the floor, and I would like to ask for it. [[Noise. Move. The president's ringing the bell.]] With respect to those who go out, go out, those who stay inside, be a little quiet. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, On the basis of recent reports in the Hungarian press, it was not surprising that the competent Attorney General's Office of Szeged was requesting the annulment of the second-degree acquittal judgment concerning the defendants in the Seviép case. He did all this on the grounds of serious procedural errors. The construction company, Mayor László Szeviép Botka and the home favourite company of the Balliberal Municipality, was the owner of Szeviép through serious municipal orders. The public procurement data show that the construction company won nearly HUF 34 billion in public money between 2005 and 2010. In total, a HUF 21 billion order landed at Seviép, which is linked to projects in Szeged. They received 15 billion HUF of the money from the government of Szeged, led by Botka, through a consortium whose head was Szeviép. The truly outrageous thing is that some 500 entrepreneurs have not been paid, 300 of whom have eventually been destroyed, while the news shows that the leaders of left-wing companies, the accused, are still living in luxury conditions. In addition to a serious violation of the purity of public life, this also greatly hurts people's sense of justice. The picantria of the case, that when Seviép stopped paying its subcontractors and even announced its insolvency, it still received billions of dollars worth of work, Botka said not from the municipality; indeed, not from the municipality, but from the company owned by that 100%, precisely for the construction of the Liget Bath, because in 2008-09 a total of three contracts were concluded, worth nearly HUF 7 billion. It's amazing that the Balliberal press simply calls this a political bluff. It is sad that the fate of small entrepreneurs, now that a city leadership of opposition is involved, is not important for the sometimes loud left. It is sad to see it as merely a political game and thus try to disguise this case. In Hungary, there must be a barrier to the use of the trust of the inhabitants as an instrument of the Socialists of Szeged, the purity of local public life, and the loss of public confidence in justice. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] With respect to what has been said, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how can the sense of justice and the purity of local public life be protected in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, please respond.
u2020-03-09-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the case of Seviép, close to the socialists, began in July 2010, when the company was ordered to be wound up for insolvency. The tax authority ordered an investigation in 2013 on the basis of a well-founded suspicion of bankruptcy. As is known, the Szeged General Court, contrary to the first degree, dismissed the defendants of the Seviép case in the second instance, in the absence of any evidence, saying that it is beyond doubt that Szeviép Zrt. was responsible for the activities of the company's managers. the insolvency or unreasonable economic decision would have been taken. [[16.40]] According to known press reports, the members of the judicial council which issued the second-degree acquittal judgment were indeed connected with various economic relations with the local government of Szeged led by László Botka, who was personally intertwined with the local government of Szeged, and therefore suspected of conflict of interest and corruption with the members of the judicial council which issued the judgment in the Seviép trial. I would like to inform the House that, in this context, the President of the National Court of Justice has ordered a full fact-finding investigation. In the Seviép case, the Curia has designated the Pécs Judgment Board for a third degree procedure. Dear House, The Hungarian Government considers the independence of the courts to be an essential element of the democratic rule of law, that judges should only judge their conscience and the law. However, it is precisely because of judicial independence that it is important to ensure that the absence of influence is clear and that the appearance of influence does not arise. In the case of Szeged, we could also see whether the question was whether any business interests should not affect judges, or at least do not compromise the appearance of impartiality. In the Seviép case, the Government awaits the disclosure of the outcome of the investigation ordered by the President of the OBH and the substantive decision of the designated Pécs Court. Dear House, First of all, I would like to say that the Hungarian legal system provides adequate means against abuses, that the laws apply equally to everyone, and that everyone must comply with them. The government is committed to fighting corruption, and the government has taken a number of measures to combat corruption. Today, the penalties for corruption are much stricter. We have adopted a much stricter public procurement law, we have abolished the pre-2010 practice, and in recent public procurement, only companies with a transparent ownership background can start up, unlike the previous period. Nevertheless, it seems that the socialists have not been able to lie to themselves in decades, and further and more embarrassing cases prove that damage to the country does not matter to them. Think of the Sukoro case, think of the Czeglédy case, which, extending through governments, continues to present day, shows the operation of the socialist red octopus. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You have a blooming orange!]] All testifying that they don't change, they're doing the same thing they did under their government. Ladies and gentlemen, With their scandal around Seviép, the socialists have once again demonstrated that they are not even worthy of the trust of the voters of Szeged. Unfortunately, to prove where the tentacles of the red octopus reach, everything they embrace, and from where, what forces they absorb, it is a difficult task, but I hope that this will also come to light. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-130	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Böröcz to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Refuse!]]
u2020-03-09-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Of course, I accept the answer, because it is extremely important that confidence in public life and public confidence in public services can be strengthened in Hungary. It is certain that this case did not contribute to this, because if we look at exactly what happened, according to the prosecution, the defendants in the Sevié case stole hundreds of millions or even billions of forints from the company, the company near bankruptcy, before the company went bankrupt. Thus, over 300 families, at least 300 families, have been destroyed. And with this money, they still live a luxurious life. The other part of the story also shakes public confidence in justice when, second, it turns out that many of the judges who act do not declare the fact that, by the way, his family members are in virtually financial contact with the municipality. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation agenda is closed, and we will move on to immediate questions. Péter Jakab and Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-03-09-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-03-09-134	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács and Andrea Varga-Damm, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his absence. I ask the congressman, Congresswoman... Who do I have to ask, sir or woman? [[For signal:]] Okay, so Congressman László Lukács to accept the person of the responder, or from Prime Minister himself...
u2020-03-09-135	With all due respect, yes.
u2020-03-09-136	Do you accept?
u2020-03-09-137	I accept, yes.
u2020-03-09-138	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2020-03-09-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, corrected. The fact is, and Jobbik said here two weeks ago that we are partners in the defense of the Crown Virus and in the resolution of the case, and we continue to hold that claim. But we also stated here in Parliament that, when necessary, we will put criticism or some sort of proposal on your table. We were partners in the process of surveying hospital assets and asking for the government. We were partners when we asked for abstract funds from the national consultation to be used for information, and you accepted this. We were partners also when we suggested that the events, including 15 March, should be considered, how to be sure to hold them. You have also taken this advice. There are additional advice, such as home quarantine for those returning from Italy, for example, a quarantine law in Parliament, or help carriers who are mainly involved in this, and their protection must be organised in some way, since their workers are exposed to infection. However, there is a recent problem, Minister, and we would also like you to take our advice. The problem is that of Minister Miklós Kásler himself. Minister Miklós Kásler, at his press conference on Friday, basically underplayed himself, in everyone's doubts that he was at all the right person to guarantee in Hungary the peace needed to defend himself against the virus. He could not answer such simple questions as what happened to Iranian students who, having noticed that they were infected, went somewhere. They said they lived the lives of the students. He couldn't tell us what institution he went to by talking about the minister responsible for education. Overall, he was unable to give a reassuring opinion and to take a reassuring position, which should be the best quality of a minister during this special period. Dear Minister, So the question arises: what are your plans with Miklós Kásler, continue his slim work, or, if necessary, can we expect a change of minister? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-140	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. [[For signal:]] Please, we can't see the name of Gergely Gulyás on the display.
u2020-03-09-141	[[They put a portable microphone in front of him.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I disagree with the claim made on this issue. Minister Kásler, as a member of the operational tribe, is naturally involved in the management of defence. Besides, I don't think it's fortunate for the Minister of Health to be attacked by the opposition in the face of an epidemic. Perhaps it would be worth taking experience with the end of the epidemic and the end of the crisis. What I can say is that, in this situation, it is in the interest of opposition parties and government parties to achieve the most effective defence possible. That is why we will strive, and that is what the operational tribe is trying to do. And, of course, a minister may know who of the nine infected patients with the coronal virus has met in the last few days, but the most important thing is not for a minister to be able to list this at a press conference, but for the operational tribe and the authorities to take the measures to reveal all the contacts of the last few days or seven. This always happens and the necessary precautions are taken in accordance with the health protocol. I hope that these measures will contribute to the fact that Hungary will have as little infection as possible. But if we look at how Europe is today, we see that the coronal virus is now spreading extremely widely and rapidly on the continent, so we hope that cooperation will be successful and effective. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.50]]
u2020-03-09-142	Thank you, Minister Gulyás. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Luke.
u2020-03-09-143	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Let us note that Miklós Kásler is unfit, especially because when he claims that there is no point in testing for screening purposes, it is particularly dangerous for public rest. In fact, it is safe to say that he is unfit to lead one of the most important ministries in defense when something is of the opinion that following the Ten Commandments will stop the virus. But it is not suitable when it cannot provide accurate, reassuring answers to individual questions not only for the media but also for its own employees. He has been seeing the country for over a year and not only because of the coronal virus, but for a year now the country has seen that Viktor Orbán was wrong when he chose Miklós Kásler as Minister of Health. We propose and ask that Viktor Orbán divorce the Minister and appoint a person who is able to carry matters properly, to reassure people, because at present your Minister for Health is not fit to do so. This is our position, and we are asking Viktor Orbán to divorce him.
u2020-03-09-144	Thank you. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-03-09-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You put words in Minister Kasler's mouth that he never used in this context. Once again, we are in a crisis where the country's joint task is to focus on defence, and there are no elections for a long two years, so I would like to ask all the factions that those involved in the operational tribe and defence do not attack, but support, in this situation. Minister Kásler, just as all the other members of the operational tribe and the authorities are doing their best to succeed where the spread of the infection can be prevented; and where that is not possible, to provide the highest possible level of medical treatment against a virus that has not yet been invented. So, in this situation, I would like to ask you once again to assist the work of the operational tribe, not to use criticisms which, moreover, are unfounded from the point of view that the Minister has not used such words, in this context he has never said. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-146	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó and Ágnes Kunhalmi, representatives of the MSZP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, if she accepts the person who is responding, or if she asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-03-09-147	Mr President, Thank you, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-09-148	He'll wait. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: I'll wait.]] Well, then you'll wait. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, 'Double Standard'? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for her answer in person.
u2020-03-09-149	Mr. President, I accept.
u2020-03-09-150	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2020-03-09-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Same county, same case, same prosecution, different judgment? A 20-year-old university student in Sopron, who took down 3 posters, i.e. three Fidesz posters, in the municipal election campaign, is now suspected of stealing in criminal proceedings. Meanwhile, Fidesz activists in the European Parliament elections shipped dozens, exactly 41 MSZP posters in Győr by minibus on 25 May, but because they claimed that they had not stolen them, they only wanted to bring the advertisements they had torn down to the selective waste collector, the prosecution did not see any legal reason for the procedure. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to point out that the young 20-year-old guy said he only wanted to put the posters in the selective scrap collector. Then the question arises: why did the prosecution apply double standards? Why do you judge the two cases so differently? The answer was given by the police themselves when they asked the boy, "What will your father say about this?" As the young boy later said, the police knew exactly that he was the son of a socialist politician. Are we seeing another fidesz concept suit again? The double standard is not far from Fidesz, and how spectacular and harsh party service is for the prosecution and the police has been proven once again. In view of the seriousness of the case, the MSZP turned to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office last week. These are the questions we asked you, but I'd like to ask you that, and I'd like to ask you about the police. Why do the prosecution and the police apply double standards? How do you explain how the two cases are judged so differently? The D.A.'s office and the police think it's right... I mean, what do you think of taking down dozens of opposition posters is legal, but even taking off some pro-government posters is Btk. Can he be sanctioned? Secretary of State, my reply is respectful.
u2020-03-09-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to what you have said, because you have addressed your immediate question to the D.A.'s office, and I would like to tell you that you will do the right thing if you turn to the D.A.'s office as you have said, because in this case, in the case you have asked or in the cases you have been asked, the prosecutor's office is competent. I don't want to take over the D.A.'s office. I don't want to make a statement instead of the D.A.'s office. Otherwise, Hungary is a democratic rule of law [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] where the police have asked the police in all the settlements of Hungary to take decisive action against all offenders in order to ensure the safety of people's lives and property. So in this case, as you said, the D.A.'s office is in charge, and I'm confident that you'll get your answer from the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi in return.
u2020-03-09-155	Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You don't have to.]] I have indicated that I would like to know your opinion on how you feel about this procedure for the police, because the double standard has clearly been shown in the police procedure, as you know, and it seems to be a conceptual procedure. I think Fidesz has had cases like this for a long time. It's not the first time they've used double standards in this case. He was also in Szekszárd at the Autumn Municipal Elections, but the II. This is also the case in the district when there was no procedure, but even Jobbik, when I look at it, in 2017 the posters were cleaned up in relation to their national campaign, which he launched against the government, there was no procedure. So the double standard is clear and clear. Approaching to 15 March, I believe that not only must equality before the law be fought over and over again, but also for the democratic rule of law that you have said.
u2020-03-09-156	Thank you very much. The rejoinder shall be granted to the Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-157	Thank you. Congresswoman, I would like to reassure you that the police, the police of Hungary, are responsible for the XXXIV of 1994. Act, the Police Act and the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Society believes that there is increasing confidence in police activity, the work of the police. Here in Parliament, on Mondays, I also find that Members, whether pro-government or opposition representatives, commend the work of the police, on border protection [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: It wouldn't be their job, it would be the border guards'...]] measures taken for the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people, or even measures taken to increase internal security. I will also say here that, compared to the last ten years, the number of crimes that have become known has decreased significantly by more than half, there is greater public security, people feel safer, and the police do not apply double standards. Hungary is a democratic rule of law, everyone is equal here before the law, and anyone who violates the law, who violates the law, must bear the consequences of his actions. [[An intervention in Jobbik's ranks, unless it's fidesz.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Ágnes Vadai, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-03-09-159	Since, despite the other excellent qualities of Minister, he does not have the ability to read minds, I am not in a position to accept it. [[17.00]]
u2020-03-09-160	You mean the responder's identity? [[Gergely Harvester nodds.]] Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the government do to alleviate the problems of those who have been quarantined by the coronal virus? In response to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-03-09-161	I'll take it.
u2020-03-09-162	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski.
u2020-03-09-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, the corona virus has arrived with us. We talked about it all the time today. There is an increasing number of registered infected people in our country, so we can't rock ourselves in the illusion that the infection doesn't start spreading in the country. It's a reasonable precaution that suspects of infection have to go into quarantine for two weeks, which means two weeks' absence from work. Of course, there is no salary for this period as it stands, and there are not many people in Hungary who cannot afford two weeks' loss of income. At the same time, according to professional law experts, there is no sickness benefit during quarantine, because the Hungarian legal system is not familiar with the concept of quarantine. This is not fair in any way, since anyone who goes into quarantine is not on his own initiative, but is absent from work in the public interest as a result of official measures. Those whose income situation does not allow for two weeks of loss will try to avoid this particular quarantine, to circumvent health regulations, to deny that they were in an area where they could be infected, and thus only to facilitate the spread of the epidemic. The other side of the same problem is that the quarantined person may have all kinds of payment obligations, such as alimony, rent, utility bills, bank credit or tax debt, which he cannot comply with, as he is in quarantine. The State must ensure that quarantined persons in the public interest are not put at a disadvantage because they are unable to fulfil their financial obligations. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State what measures the Government is planning to take to address these problems. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-03-09-164	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-03-09-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have pointed out, Europe has now seen the emergence of a new type of crown virus in countless countries. Hungary, as soon as the WHO issued the warning, immediately entered into force and put in place various measures. At present, as the virus has already appeared in Hungary, the main task of epidemiological care is to ensure that these individual diseases, which are still separate, are not grouped and that there are no focal points that can then, as we see in northern Italy, increase disease and danger. That is why it is important to identify, isolate, and care for patients on the one hand. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] I think that it is in everyone's well-conceived interest that, if there is a risk of coronal virus disease, you should try to prove or deny this by medical examination as soon as possible, so that you should be aware that the infection exists precisely in his case or not, and then I think that everyone will see that in the event that it is in his interest and in the interests of society as a whole, it is also in the interests of your loved ones, of your colleagues and of all Hungarian people, that it is in the best interest of them to stop infecting others. So I think there is a consensus in this, and everyone accepts that if such a situation develops, it is also important for the health of other people. In addition, in South Pest Hospital, both physical and personal conditions are in place to achieve this. As regards the part of your question that is precisely inability to work exists or does not exist, the CLIV on health. It is necessary to take into account the provisions of law in this respect. Here, too, the health insurance legislation is subject to Article 44. § (g) defines incapacity for work. We have said that it is important for employers here, and here we have said in point 7 of the ten points of the government that you can remember your cooperation; it is also in their interest to prevent the illness of your employees as much as possible. If you can assign a position to your employee that you can carry out via remote work, home or computer, as appropriate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Point 2 of the Annex sets out what incapacity for work is. We have said that it is important for employers here, and here we have said in point 7 of the ten points of the government that you can remember your cooperation; it is also in their interest to prevent the illness of your employees as much as possible. If you can give your employee a position that you can do via remote work, home or computer, if appropriate (The President will announce the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell. ) is also an important step. I'll pick it up from here in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-166	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-167	Yeah. Actually, Mr. Secretary of State has not been able to answer my questions yet. I would like to remind you that you may have missed the fact that the representatives of the Democratic Coalition have tabled a bill to remedy these problems. It is proposed that the law states that everyone should pay the salary for the quarantine period, which the budget must reimburse to the employer afterwards. It is recommended that the worker should not be fired by the employer for one month from the beginning of the quarantine, so that he should not be dismissed by a unilateral decision. It is proposed that the institution should provide at least three months of interest-free instalments for the debt of quarantined persons to institutions. And finally, the debt to private individuals is assumed by the budget by the debtor returning it to the treasury free of interest during the three months following the end of the quarantine. I ask the Secretary of State that these points are eligible, and the Government is willing to support DK's proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-03-09-168	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-03-09-169	Thank you very much. I'd pick up where I left off. Thus, the definition of incapacity for work is defined in Article 44 of the Health Insurance Act. Paragraph (g) of the Act, and it is also stated here that if a person is officially separated for reasons of public health, the chief medical officer must inform the doctor who is entitled to receive the non-workable herd, so many times, in most cases, the general practitioner or someone who is unable to register the person and confirms his incapacity for work, and is entitled to different benefits under the general rules. I think the most important thing for all of us is for everyone to know when there is a risk that they might suffer from this disease, what are the exact syndromes that they can detect when they feel on their own, along with cough and fever, which everyone can now see in video format in different media, with tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of views. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] (b) and it is also stated here that if a person is officially separated for reasons of public health, then the chief of staff must inform the doctor entitled to receive the non-workable herd, so that in most cases, the general practitioner or another person who is incompetent with the registration of the person and who confirms his incapacity for work and is entitled to different benefits under the general rules. I think that the most important thing for all of us is to know when there is a risk that he might suffer from this disease, what are the exact syndromes that he or she senses on his own, along with cough and fever, which everyone can now see in video format, with tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of views (The President, by jogging the bell, indicates the expiry of the time frame. ), you can also see in social media, if you feel these things on you, then you should call your home doctor as soon as possible, who will then follow up with the question series condition....
u2020-03-09-170	Thank you very much...
u2020-03-09-171	... he'll tell you what else to do. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: who is responsible, Prime Minister? In response to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Mr. Congressman, Mr. Group leader, if you would accept the person of the response.
u2020-03-09-173	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-03-09-174	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Minister the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-03-09-175	Yeah.
u2020-03-09-176	He'll take it. It's up to you. And I will hand over the chair to Vice President James, who is waiting behind me. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-03-09-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In general, free trade agreements bleed from many wounds. In many cases, stricter environmental and food safety rules, namely our health and the living environment, are affected. The US-EU Free Trade Agreement seemed to be off the table, but maybe it wasn't? The latest statements by the EU Trade Commissioner are of great concern. It responded to the US demand that food residues should be relaxed, to the chemical treatment of poultry meat, this European regulation on chlorinated chicken and genetically modified food. Obviously, the purpose of the US demand is to give free access to genetically modified US food with residues and chlorinated poultrymeat on the European market, in exchange for the US tariff preferences of the European automotive industry. The Trade Commissioner has stated that he is looking for solutions to remove these stricter regulatory barriers. [[17.10]] I believe that if the Commission gives in to the US demand, it will do nothing but sacrifice the health and environment of European citizens on the altar of the automotive industry. If the Hungarian government is serious about the health of Hungarian people and the climate action plan, it must clearly say no to this intention. Mr. Secretary. I would like to know where the Hungarian government stands: stricter European food safety and environmental rules or the interests of the automotive industry. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-03-09-178	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-09-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can answer the question of the representative several times as the Hungarian Government has always represented, in consultation with the European Commission, that EU agricultural interests should be represented in relation to any American or even European commercial interest, and that, standing on the ground of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, we consider the prohibition of genetic modification mandatory. At the time when the Constitution was adopted, one of the important changes in the area you mentioned was that the Hungarian Fundamental Law clearly prohibits genetic modification, so in this sense without a two-thirds constitutional modification decision it would be impossible for Hungary to ratify an international treaty. Finally, most importantly, perhaps on your question: free trade negotiations between the European Union and the United States are currently not taking place. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-180	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-181	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to Minister that more than a hundred civil society organisations at European level have written a joint communication in which they expressed this concern that secret negotiations can and will take place on this. We know very well that, in general, these free trade agreements are held extremely secretly, behind closed doors. This was the case with CETA, but last time European greens protested about the secrecy of free trade agreements between South America and the European Union. I am pleased that the Minister has said this answer that the Hungarian Government will continue to stand up. I would like to say that I have just written this in very, very thick letters on the paper, and we will ask you to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-182	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-03-09-183	I don't want to live with it.
u2020-03-09-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio and Szabó Timea, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-03-09-185	Thank you for coming in, Minister, but we'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-03-09-186	Thank you very much. So I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question: What is going on? It's an address. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: The Danube!]] On behalf of the Minister, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer the question. I'm asking you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2020-03-09-187	Thank you, I accept.
u2020-03-09-188	You have the floor.
u2020-03-09-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Evidence of what is now a cliché or an open secret is gathering: public television and radio are Fidesz's party media. Previously, Krisztina Balogh, former member of MTVA, revealed how the instruction comes to MTVA, which current propaganda should be pushed, which opposition representatives should be discredited. Then, in a report, their faces and names were no longer available, but several MTVA employees said the same thing about how this system works. Last week, the Politico News Portal took possession of the internal correspondence of public media staff from the second half of 2019. This shows that the Kádár era has returned to the public media, along with the broadcast of Fidesz propaganda, and in the years prior to the regime change, 3 T's exercise: tolerate, prohibit and support. For example, forbidden content is Greta Thunberg; tolerated content is, for example, the MiHazan Movement, who often visits public media and opposition parties when it is possible to attack them; supported content is, of course, the government and Fidesz's proposals and program. These e-mails were not refuted by public media, but only published a rather pathetic communication about the BBC principles, so probably these e-mails do exist. Of course, it doesn't take much evidence that this thing exists, because they use the same slogans, the same phrases in the public media that you, for example, are often using, Mr Secretary of State, or are often used by other State Secretarys. Dear Secretary of State, Who's sending e-mails, phones to MTVA, what you don't need to talk about in the shows? Last time I asked the Prime Minister about this issue [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But then he ran away from answering. I hope you have the courage to answer that simple question. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-03-09-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As far as the Kádár era is concerned, the legacy of the Kádár era is represented by the representatives with whom you are on a list and are running for election together. As to the subject of the question: I do not consider it my task to comment on the operation of certain media and the operation of editorials here in the Parliament, especially on the basis of foreign discrediting articles referring to non-unnamed sources. I ask you, please note that the Hungarian media is diverse, and everyone finds media for their own worldview, their own views and their own tastes and their own needs, otherwise it has not always been so. Otherwise, it would not be right for politicians to comment on media editing practices or to put pressure, as has happened in your case. You may disagree. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] However, we consider it an important principle. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Bence Tordai: Public media is financed with public money!]]
u2020-03-09-192	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-193	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, He didn't answer who sent these messages. MTV employees don't know that, either. It'd be nice if we knew that. Dear Secretary of State, Here in Parliament, I think it bothers you very much that we are criticizing you, saying that we do not agree with the government, but that for some reason you are maintaining this relationship. They could eliminate it because they have two-thirds majority, but it would look pretty bad. Do you know the difference between public media and parliament? Nothing. The public media should work the same way as Parliament here: opposition representatives should be given the floor, opposition representatives should also be invited to the public media; this is not happening, for example, Gergely Christmas was once invited to the public media as mayor. This is not a public media, and you, as responsible for the executive power, should ensure equal freedom of information. That's what they don't do, and they even influence it. Soon it will be revealed not only by e-mails, but also by the impact you have on public media.
u2020-03-09-194	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-09-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I find it very strange that you are bringing this up, so your party president has declared a boycott against a television, probably because I do not like what is said there. He's calling boycott! [[Gergely Harvesto: Private TV!]] After all, the fact that you are asking this question is a very two-faced policy. While we're here and you're bringing up public television: it was you left-wing politicians who attacked the building of the public television, they referred to the fact that they were representatives and then wanted to have a content read. If we had done this, [[Bence of Turda: That's what you do every day!]] they would've been crying and pissing off international media, and they'd be organizing a protest. [[Gergely Harvesto: Tell me you send me what to say. The president's ringing the bell.]] It was also an example, honourable Member, that one left-wing Member broke into the editorial office of an online portal and threatened there. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Who was it?]] Once again, it's Gergely Christmas who advertises boycotts against certain psychics. We will then not accept lectures from you in this area, but quietly acknowledge that we think otherwise of this subject. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-196	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. Can we expect the Government's support in the field of border protection in the future? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra was entitled to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On the sign of Péter Ágh:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-197	Dear Secretary of State, The events in Turkey still do not provide a cause for relief in relation to the wave of immigration that threatens Europe as a whole. [[17.20]] According to some news, more than ever, an illegal migration wave can reach the southern border area of Hungary. In 2015, we saw what it was like to have hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants crossing the green border, to break the state border, and what it was like to have crowds knocking down our lands and occupying our public areas. Our government in Europe is the first to take substantial steps to curb illegal migration. Since then, we know that, among other things, Hungary is one of the safest countries in the world, and Budapest is one of the safest capitals in Europe. These successes could not have been achieved if we had allowed space to the demands of the Soros-based conflict choir, who, under the leadership of Gyurcsány, tried with all their might to drill the Hungarian border protection system. Because of our migration policy, we were attacked at home, abroad, and the institutions of the Union were on a daily basis to spread lies about our country. We must not forget how many times opposition members have called the government's series of measures unnecessary, false problems or malpractice. If the future of the country had been lost in the opposition of Soros, multiculturalism would have put our Christian values and culture in jeopardy today. It was a series of opposition lies or not, the government has clearly been able to protect our borders effectively, and the past period, unlike many countries of Western Europe, was not about terrorist attacks or the breakdown of Christian culture in Hungary, but about development and security. In view of all this, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State that, in this lively situation, the Hungarian people can continue to rely on the government in terms of border protection and the protection of the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you and this House that security is the most important Community value today, and Hungary, thanks to the decisions of the government and Parliament, is a safe country in Europe and in the world. What is meant by the fight against illegal migration, Hungary has taken a clear position since 2015 and follows clear practice to protect the external borders of all EU Member States, and Hungary has complied with this. We have spent more than EUR 1 billion on this, and we have received only EUR 20 million from the European Union, some of which have only arrived, and most of it has not yet arrived. So Hungary defends its borders on its own. As regards the latest events and the third and fourth quarter experiences of 2019, it was also apparent that the situation was getting worse at the southern border, the number of illegal migrants increased, in a new way, tunneling, trying to cross the rivers, breaking the fence, trying to get into Hungary illegally. There were more than 17 252 such experiments, which is a significant increase compared to 2018. If we look at the data for the first two months in 2020, we can say that more than 7,000 illegal attempts have been made to enter Hungary. I would also like to say that the government has also responded to the latest situation on the Greek-Turkish border, the Security Cabinet has been convened by Prime Minister. The security cabinet and the government have decided to further strengthen the southern border, according to which we can say that Hungary and the Hungarian people are safe; regardless of the migratory pressure they will be under, Hungary has the power to defend the country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-200	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-201	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian people have made clear on several occasions that they want to determine who they want to live with, and this is very necessary for this mandate to remain alive in the future, because, as I said, there is a sharp situation. And not only because of the events in Turkey, but we have talked about the Crown Virus several times in the House today. Let us not forget, however, that there is no health control between migrants, so it is important, in view of this emergency, that our borders are protected and protected. It can be seen that the Soros migrant-friendly Brussels policy has failed, and we must recognise that not only in Hungary, the kind of attitude the government has shown but now increasingly in Europe. I'd like to refer here to the article on Die Presse published last week. I think that the decisive action that gave Hungary security in 2015 is now needed in a exponential way in terms of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-202	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would point out that Greece is making enormous efforts to protect the Greek-Turkish border and to prevent migrants from coming from Turkey. Greece has one of the largest armies in the European Union, with an army of nearly half a million at its disposal. We trust that their action will be successful, but we must not forget that 130,000 illegal migrants are still on the Balkan route, and there are nearly 10 thousand illegal migrants in Serbia who are trying to get into the European Union in every way, and they are trying to do so through Hungary. Allow me to refer to the breakthrough attempt on 28 January, when 60-70 migrants tried to come over, or to the migrant caravan on 6 February, when hundreds of migrants tried to implement force demonstrations at the Hungarian border, and this is the latest development of the Turkish President's announcement, which created a new situation. But I would like to state here and now that Hungary is determined to protect the borders, but indeed, as you said, the danger has not passed, the danger is present, but the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure that the safety of Hungarian people and Hungary continues. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-204	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What does the Government intend to do about Palóc Nagykereskedelmi Kft. For the sake of his victims? It's an address. Minister Tamás Schanda has given Mr János State Secretary the right to reply because of his absence. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Palóc Nagykereskedelmi Kft. failed in 2016, which meant that at the time it was forced to close 80 shops and had to leave 1300 employees. That same year we turned to the government in writing from Member Tamás Sneider with the question of what the government is doing to ensure that the failing Palóc Nagykereskedelmi Kft. Your colleagues will receive their unpaid wages as soon as possible. There was also an answer, the main part of which was that the workers would be fully compensated. Next, it should be mentioned that they were received from the Wage Guarantee Fund but, at the same time, not sufficiently and fully compensated. Then they turned again to the government, the finance minister, to act in their case, but no reply to this letter has been received for more than 400 days. And here is a court order from the Balassagyarmat Tribunal from 2018, which provides that the liquidation fee will be set at HUF 63 million, and otherwise this amount will have to be transferred. It also mentions that 111 individuals are registered, who face a legitimate claim against the company, since they are otherwise entitled to HUF 100 million for their termination or termination. It was more than a billion forints that the liquidation commissioner reported that they were able to collect as a sum, but this one went to pay off the NAV, paid off the banks and paid off the supermarket chains, but the problem was that the employees were not. Not the workers that should have been first. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the government can help the victims as promised. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-207	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to protect and develop jobs and jobs, so we see each job as valuable. The National Employment Service provides a wide range of support and services to help job seekers re-employment as soon as possible. In addition to job placements, such as support for job seekers' training, and the employer may receive wage support for job seekers. [[17 .30]] In all cases, the National Employment Service is also prepared for any unexpected dismissals and, if necessary, will help to relocate the workers concerned as soon as possible by means of retraining, job placement, involvement in various labour market programmes and provision of services. In the case of undertakings in liquidation, the superintendent may request support from the Wage Guarantee Fund in order to ensure that wages are paid continuously. In any case, local government agencies will out-of-charge the application of former employees of the bankrupt company to pay wages so that victims can obtain their unpaid salaries as soon as possible. Honourable Congressman, Palóc Kft. In the case of its employees, the Nógrád County Government Office has settled almost 1200 people's needs over the last three years. In all cases, the references were made within the statutory deadline. The Government Office shall keep in constant contact with the company's management in order to resolve the employment situation of the workers concerned in order to resolve the situation. The workers to be decommissioned will be informed about the possibilities of service, training and support, and will be assisted by personalised advice based on needs and special trainings. The employment departments of the district offices of the Government Office also help workers who leave the company by mutual agreement to relocate. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer the question, but you were very talkative. These people have been waiting for their fair share for almost four years. Twenty-two, if you look up, you'll see them in the gallery, these people came here today to hear from you, representing the government, to get the money they deserve. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: four years ago!]] Nearly four years. There are people who are only a few hundred thousand, and there are people who expect a higher amount of severance pay or a legitimate payment. Believe me, Mr Secretary, this amount is extremely important to them, extremely important to their families. They don't want ten pennies more, they just want what's due, and they want it.
u2020-03-09-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-09-211	Honourable Congressman, As a result of the government's measures, the number of employees has now risen to four and a half million, and the chances of relocating are therefore unprecedented, as several sectors of the national economy are currently characterised by significant labour shortages. We hope and offer all kinds of support to stakeholders that a large number of redundant workers will be able to and are likely to be repositioned within a short time. [[Intercom from Jobbik: They've been waiting for their money for four years!]] that employment of unemployed workers will continue to be possible on the ground in some form. Honourable Congressman, If you really wanted to hear more information from me, you wouldn't be giving your question today at noon. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] To give you the right information in response. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-09-212	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Tünde Szabó appointed Secretary of State to respond. I ask the congressman, do you accept the person of the response, or personally from the Minister... [[Dr. István Simicskó: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The ancient Greeks believed that movement, sport, benefit both the body and the soul, and the opposite to the detriment. An excellent German sports historian Wolfgang Behringer has formulated his thesis about sport as the key to the way that sport works in society. If we also look at this and look at it, it is clear that the Hungarian government is a sport-friendly government, and it is very right, it is nice that it helps and supports sport to this extent. On July 24, 2020, this year, if everything goes well, we hope that everything goes well, then there will be an Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. I trust you won't be disturbed by the spread of the coronal virus. One thing is certain that what we can now consider is that Hungary has very serious successes and achievements, Hungarian athletes have excellent results. If we look at the past period, in the history of the modern Olympics, 28 Olympics have been held since 1896, on the 26th Hungarians participated, in the 20th in Antwerp and in 84 in Los Angeles, unfortunately for political reasons, 177 gold medals have been won so far in the history of the modern Olympics, including the winter, with a total of 502 medals, and we are eighth in the world ranking thanks to the performance of sports, this is a huge achievement. Dear Secretary of State, My next question is that we have heard the expectations of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, this is very nice and welcome, the Hungarian Olympic Committee expects 13 medals, 24 points scorers, and I trust that we will succeed, even above it. However, what is the expectations of the Tokyo Olympics, and how does the Hungarian government ensure that Hungarian athletes are prepared so that we can be as successful as possible in this Olympics? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Szabó Tünde. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2020-03-09-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We are all very, very proud of our athletes, their achievements, our champions, as we are all standing before us as role models, and when the National Anthem comes up, we all feel that we have contributed a little bit to this success, and we want to extend these successes further. After all, the community-creating power of sport unites and supports all Hungarians regardless of party positions and world views, our athletes must give everything they can to achieve their goals, and we will ensure that athletes and sports professionals are asked to participate very successfully in the Olympics and the Paralympics. I stress that this preparation period is not only about this year, but it involves four years, that is, it started after Riot. I would like to mention just a few figures: In 2018, we spent 3.2 billion forints on professional support for the Olympic preparation, over the past year 4.2 billion forints, while this year 4.6 billion forints, which includes anti-doping tasks as an additional support. Our athletes have already obtained 72 quotas, and 29 of them have fulfilled the right to start the Olympics, but we know that the Olympic qualifying events are taking place well. And here I would mention, since we were talking about international sporting events, that the Crown Virus has brought about a new, unprecedented situation in the world of sport, so our first priority is to ensure that the health of athletes can be enforced at the fullest level and at the highest level, and the Hungarian government will take all necessary measures to do so. As I said, given the results of the previous year, and if you look at the preparation, the present period, then a very successful Olympic and Paralympic performance is expected. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-216	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-217	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I thank the Secretary of State very much for the reassuring answers. We can only hope that the Tokyo Olympics will be held in a regular time, in a regular place, at the originally planned site, and, of course, we also hope and all of us cheer for Hungarian athletes to bring as much success as possible, because the Olympics are always a celebration of sport, and the Olympics are also a symbol of peace. That is why Baron Coubertin launched it after a 1503 year break, and we trust that in some sense the weapons in the world will indeed be contained, and that we will be part of an effective, successful, saving Olympics for all. I trust that the expectations expressed by the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the government will be met, and that Hungarian athletes will be able to return home with as many gold medals as possible. Sport, we know, the Olympics are particularly famous for their importance, but we Hungarians always trust in it, because we want to become an athlete nation, really as many people as possible to play sports, and an Olympic always gives us a boost to giving athletes the will to play, and many Hungarian children start to play sports in view of the success of the Olympics, that in this sense we are also facing a successful Olympics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2020-03-09-219	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Everyone's desire is for our athletes to be as successful as possible, so we want to give you all the help we can get. As we have heard, the Hungarian Olympic Committee has forecast 13 medals and 14 points for the Tokyo Olympics, and sports data analysis organisations are much more confident than this, which regards the results of Hungarian athletes. I always say, as a former athlete, that we look at the goals of athletes, and in accordance with what they want to achieve, we will be happy enough, even then. So we have to give all the support from the Hungarian government, so we ensure the needs and requests of athletes and sports professionals. So let's all cheer for our athletes in the Olympics and the Paralympics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-220	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Who is dishonest, who stops them? It's an address. Minister Tállai, Minister of State, authorised Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, to respond to his urgent absence. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-09-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, About a week and a half ago, there was a scandal that disinfectants in relation to the coronal virus were discovered that one of NER's favourite companies had supplied cleaning products to transport companies that only contained no disinfectant. It was then that we asked the government and the authorities to receive consumer protection confirmation and to launch investigations so that companies would not abuse them, and especially because of the trade experience, they would not abuse consumers. Since then, they have stood up every day and said that these consumer protection investigations have been launched, but what we can see, Mr Secretary, is that, thanks to the buying-in fever in recent weeks, commercial companies have made a brutal price increase in Hungary. I would like to say some data to the well-known secretary of state that apples have become 83 percent more expensive in recent weeks, potatoes have become 13 percent, flour and long-lasting milk by 20 percent, chicken breasts by 30 percent, sugar has become 55 HUF, more than 20 percent more expensive in shops, but I could list a lot of products, we are talking about basic foods. In the meantime, we find that in the last few weeks and a half, the price of petrol has dropped by HUF 25 in the past week, with HUF 23 in the gas oil, and this weekend they opened up the opportunity for transport companies to deliver their products. By the way, on Friday, the world market price for oil dropped by 10 percent, and since then, it's now 30 percent. There is no justification for this brutal basic food price increase in Hungary. Have you started the investigation, Mr. Secretary? Who conducts these investigations, and the government has the opportunity to intervene so that Hungarian people are not robbed by these commercial companies? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-03-09-222	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-223	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, I'd like to tell you six things that the government can't do, but it's a process in the world, and what you're saying, which is actually true about price increases, it still affects that. African swine fever, the pig population in China has decreased from 55 million tonnes to 35 million tonnes. This affects Europe as a whole, so they can sell to Hungarian pig producers, more expensively for export, or sell at home more expensively. That's the thing. Spanish snowstorm, weather conditions, fruit production decreased, transportation doesn't go because of the blizzard, it also generates a price increase. The fuel prices just said, yes, the fuel was expensive, and now it's going down, and now it's going to have the effect of lowering the prices of the same products. The truck stop was lifted by the government, so it could be delivered on weekends, so it was facilitated. Or did he say the apple: do you know that last year in Hungary fruit production decreased by an average of 13 percent? Apple production is down 27 percent. That's why... [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató:]] Oh, is it also the government's fault that the bad weather has reduced apple production by 27 percent? Thank you very much, dear DK. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Or the forint weakening, their import price, even though they say it's the government's fault for the forint weakening, the government has already discussed other issues that can't help the forint weakening. Or even the coronal virus, that's exactly right, because of the coronal virus, there's a buy-in fever, unfortunately, which also has a price rise. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've said six factors: international processes that the government can't help, but if there's any more time, I'll tell you in a minute what the government can do and what the government has done. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-224	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-225	Mr Secretary of State, let me ask you why you stand up every day, and the other Secretary of State announces that you will intervene at government level so that market players do not take advantage of this situation. I wasn't talking about the last year, the last two weeks, when it was this brutal price increase. We are aware of what has been going on in the last year, but, Mr. Secretary, yes, in that week and a half, petrol has become 25 forints cheaper, and this is going to decrease, and we are already seeing world market prices. When are they gonna intervene? It won't be cheaper for any product, you're lying to yourself, Secretary of State. All I'm asking for is what they announce every day, who's been doing the investigation, what the tests have done, what they've done since then, and what we've seen, and what we've seen as a citizen, is that we go into the store, and since the outbreak of the coronal virus, basic food prices have gone up brutally. And you stand up and say every day that you're going to stop this. It's the government's job, Mr. Secretary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Don't tell me you don't have an influence on this, but there is, Mr. Secretary, you just have to intervene. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-09-226	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-227	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're confusing two systems, now there's a market economy that you're talking about the government interfering with, that was another system. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Socialism! Nostalgia! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Besides, I'll tell you that retail sales have been growing for over six years, if the price increase were so bad in Hungary, and the incomes would be taken away and people couldn't buy, then retail sales wouldn't continue to increase for 80 months. You know why? Because the government can do one thing, change in incomes, reduce taxes, reduce VAT, reduce employers' burdens, reduce social contributions tax, increase family tax incentives to make more for families, family support systems, baby shower support, preserve the value of pensions, and the CSOK. This is what the government does, and that is why there are such cyclical things, unique things, when prices are increasing, yet consumption, despite its desire, does not decrease in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-228	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:47 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9280. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 5 March 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9280 amending certain laws necessary to combat the exploitation of victims of trafficking in human beings. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 33 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us seeks to protect juveniles from sexual exploitation by more effective means. It is therefore necessary to amend the existing Hungarian legislation in line with international practice such as the New York Convention or the Council of Europe Convention, as well as other EU legal requirements. It is appropriate to establish the relevant legislation in such a way that all children involved in prostitution are considered victims or suspected victims of trafficking in human beings and not as perpetrators in order to protect the best interests of the child. [[17.50]] Therefore, the main directions of the proposal before us are the fixing of the ban on offering, the exclusion of an infringement to date, the development of a child protection institution system and the strengthening of criminal law instruments. The amendment submitted introduces a general ban on offering such services, but does not provide for infringement liability in the event of a breach. It is therefore proposed to be introduced as a new non-criminal reason if the person who offered the offer was not 18 years of age at the time the act was committed. In this case, the general protection measure introduced in the child protection system shall apply. Thus, the State cannot remain inactive when it comes to the best interests of the child. A child who has become a suspected victim of trafficking in human beings will now be considered a child with a special need for care, for which the development of a child protection institution is important. In order to strengthen the criminal law instrument system, the proposal intends to amend the Btk in two directions. the text of the standard in force, on the one hand, of the legal facts of trafficking in human beings, is amended in such a way that the essential elements of the exploitation process are clearly developed. Another aspect of the Btk. amendment envisages aggravating other crimes based on child sexual activity. This includes promoting the child's fence and prostitution and the exploitation of child prostitution. Dear House, With the rules of the proposal on the House's table, we hope that the person under the age of 18 will not be at risk of further sexual exploitation, which seriously impedes his physical, mental and moral development, and is therefore certainly eligible. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-09-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak to the rapporteur now or at a later stage of the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-231	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to draw attention to one amendment that, unfortunately, was rejected by the designated committee, but we will be asking for a separate vote on it at tomorrow's parliamentary session. I would also like to argue that this House, the factions, will support this amendment, I hope, even the government. This goes on to reiterate what I said in the general debate that we agree with the fundamental aims, the spirit of the bill, the most chosen means. We also agree that, in the case of children in such a situation, children who are the victims of child trafficking or prostitution should not follow the criminal or even the course of offence, but should be placed in the institutional system where they are most able to receive assistance. Once again, we agree with this view of the bill. We propose a single correction. The bill designates a special children's home as an institution that provides these children. The special children's home is a network of institutions providing care for children in various difficult situations. So these are existing institutions, but children are admitted here on the basis of individual weighing and child protection decisions if justified by their situation. But if a police officer or a victim of human trafficking brings someone from the street, then the child protection procedure that child protection professionals have to carry out, which would decide what to do with these children in the longer term, what placement is justified for them, has not yet been carried out. This is why we propose that, in line with what was stated in the Government Decision of 2019 adopted by the Government, temporary child protection institutions should be set up to provide specific assistance to these children and young people. We do not know what their number is, because the government has not provided information on this either during the presentation or during the debate, but there cannot be many, I fear. I'm saying I'm afraid because I think there's a lot of casualties, but today there's little the police can find. Of course, I trust that the new legislation will help you find more of them. What I am trying to say is that I do not think that it is an insurmountable financial or organisational burden for the state to appoint such temporary shelters and to provide the special benefits that these children need until the child protection procedure is completed within 60 days and a decision is made on the final placement. You can see that this proposal fits into the spirit of the original bill, which is why I am asking you to support this.
u2020-03-09-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP fraction.
u2020-03-09-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is very rare when we are talking about an amendment to the law where all the speakers of the opposition give their support to the party of government and the secretary of state, of course, in our own criticism. I am also very sorry that, regardless of our offer of cooperation, and we said that finally an amendment to the law, which is true, that he was late ten years ago and should have been done a long time ago, I also said in my speech to the lead speaker that he was late precisely because he was writing worse reports about Hungary. We tabled an amendment, too, but at the Justice Committee meeting, where we initiated to give the victims the opportunity to do so when we talk about the signalling system, whether it is children's homes or the police, then the resolution of this problem should be open from above in the budget, whether in the social care system, but unfortunately the pro-government representatives rejected it. But it would be very important, and not only about this case, but when we talk about the police, the signalling system, child protection, the social security system, we are indebted to a lot of things. We have made an experiment, but we can continue to say that we are talking about a very important case. Of course, we will support this amendment. I would just ask the Secretary of State that the next time we talk about such a very important matter, which all parties support, please also make some kind of positive attitude towards us. We don't want any harm with these amendments, as Gergő Arató told me before me. I think we submitted it with a positive intention, but regardless, we support it, and I hope that next year, when we read this year's report, we can make progress compared to last year, and we are not talking about how many minors have fallen victim to, but how many minors we have managed to save. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-09-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-235	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly. It is indeed an extremely important law. We are pleased to note that the TAB has supported the proposed amendments which provide for a significant tightening of penalties. In my keynote speech, I also asked for the bill to move in this direction. As regards the two fellow Members who just spoke: Mr Arato spoke about a special institution. These institutions are still there today. It is clear that their expansion in terms of utilisation may cause further effects, so what Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talked about is really important to have budgetary coverage for these new institutions if we involve more. [[18.00]] But in my opinion, this should not be regulated in this law, but in the fiscal law, if this requires extra funding. And if not, if it can be done within these limits, then special care must be arranged according to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-03-09-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-03-09-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the support of all the parties that have been expressed in this important matter in the committee vote. I hope that we will see this in tomorrow's vote. On the issue raised by Mr Arató and by my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, it was also said at the committee meeting that these current specialized homes could address this issue. And the police measure is aimed at bringing it into the home if such an act has taken place; they can decide that now. Practically, the delay in the various expert proceedings would result in no immediate protection from the victims of these cases. I very much hope that the practice will prove the right quality of this regulation. Indeed, in such cases, it cannot be a budgetary issue to have adequate cover for the settlement of these matters. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-03-09-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal on investments to achieve the objective of public interest follow up. The submission submitted by representatives of Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, László Böröcz, Fidesz, and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, T/9283. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 March 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the modification of certain laws in the context of investments aimed at achieving a public interest objective, T/9283. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes to 12, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, With the bill, the governing parties propose that a limited range of public-interest works carried out from the central budget should be exempted from the payment of public-use charges. The submission of the bill is justified by the fact that the Franciscan Municipality, led by Krisztina Baranyi, would collect more than HUF 100 million after the reconstruction of the Reformed College of Ráday Street, which was burned down last January. The construction is necessary because of the tragedy, so it is obviously not a planned municipal revenue. The reconstruction could finally begin with small and bigger donations and state aid. Even in the case of investments aimed at achieving the public interest objective, the proposed exemption should be limited in time and space to the extent necessary to carry out the works. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the light of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if someone on behalf of the authors would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact either. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. The representatives will now take part in the speeches. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-241	Mr President, Dear House, Some strange tricks have come up here in connection with this proposal. Let's talk about this for a second. I would like to lay down the groundwork that I shared with you in the general debate. I fully support the fact that when a college burns down, it's no use to a local government. I totally agree with him. There I can be less supportive when the government makes an investment in a pyramid building or a cycoma, say, moving someone to the Castle or building a sports hall, so let's not ask the local government if there is any damage to this event. There, I'm more open-minded, let's ask him, and make sure he's compensated for the damage to such an event, let's say, a local shopkeeper... [[Turning to László Böröcz:]] Don't grin, because it's not as funny for a local shopkeeper who can't open or care for his clients. If you don't understand the proposal yourself, then again, I can't help you. Once again, we can talk about the burnt-out college until morning, but fellow Members, this proposal is not just about this, so a proposal has been tabled for the whole country... [[Turning to László Böröcz:]] My fellow Member, stop laughing if we bring real people's real problems into this House. [[László Böröcz: Sorry!]] Well, don't be ridiculous. Amazing! The fact is that, on the basis of the papyros that came before the Legislative Committee, there is also some sort of retroactive effect here. If that's not the case, they'll deny it, and I'll take it with great respect. There's a debate between us at the base of the assumption. Once again, in the event of such a catastrophic event, I consider all kinds of assistance justified, and also that there should be no revenue on the part of the municipality. However, I also find it amazing that, if similar damages arise in connection with moving to the Castle at the level of a local government, they cannot even be compensated, so I would like to make a bridging proposal. Our aim, though, is to ensure that a municipality, in a quotation mark, does not gain anything, although this could be debated, since a municipality would have a right to account for this revenue. On the other hand, we also see that the government is trying to eliminate a transfer to local authorities. My proposal is to choose a public goal for which Hungary should spend centrally, and on which this government has not spent anything for ten years, to take this positive public goal, otherwise I was thinking of building apartments, to do not collect this tax, to make it non-inclusive, but to mark this amount in a strapped manner, and from a central budget fund the municipality concerned can apply for and charge for the construction of apartments. We have already taken a positive target which, under normal circumstances and in normal democracy, this government could not depart from, and we have already taken a point of use which means that this still strange, a little forceful, and the backward scope must be clarified, but otherwise a little strangely proposed may not be a good idea of the problem. If this is led by burning down a college, I would like to restore the original state as much as possible, although there is obviously no substitute for lost life, so with the greatest tragedy this Parliament cannot do, but if they start by not wanting to see municipal revenue in this context, I think everyone would have accepted it. This proposal is not only about this case. It is a proposal of national width and its temporal scope should be clarified. That is why I propose that, with this positive proposal, by taking a public goal, by translating quotes in a direction that is in the interest of the central budget, the government and local authorities, we bridge this problem. If you want to know how the construction works, the Jobbik. We Castle program, a rental-building and home-building program is ready. We'll give you this free and free, no license fees, just make it happen. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go. [[18.10]]
u2020-03-09-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear tableds, I am going to vote yes, I am turning to my fellow designers, for some reason I feel here in this Chamber and after the TAB decision that we have failed to convince you not, I see in their eyes. Then I am on a slightly different trail than my good-looking fellow Member before me, trying to make a last-minute attempt to say that, with an extremely false argument, they intend to make a particularly bad decision in the next few days if they continue to do so. The argument is false, because they refer to a case that is really terrible, which really needs to be helped, it really needs to be dealt with, but in the meantime, they are making a decision that is probably not particularly relevant to this matter, but in fact, in the next period, and it was actually discussed here in the debate, allowing an inaccessible amount of companies to increase their revenue, where appropriate. What are we talking about? An entrepreneur, when he takes on a job, plans with costs, VAT, plans with machine amortization, plans to pay social security for the workers and plans to pay public property charges to the municipalities. This is not a gift to the municipalities, we discussed it last time, they use public areas here, there are a lot of costs that the municipalities decide to use. With these, once again, the municipalities are being hit and the entrepreneurs are being helped. This investment will not be put in a better position, but more money will be left in the pockets of entrepreneurs at the expense of municipalities. That is what we have been trying to explain to you, which is what we have been trying to show in this debate. What I see is that you don't think so. I would like to say to you the good news that this matter will not end in the vote tomorrow, because we will be watching what these investments will be, which will be so high in the coming years that they will not pay for public reservation. And we will confront all such things that you fail to pay in health care, education and other places. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-245	Thank you very much. Due to the time frame, I am obliged to make what I have to say extremely narrowly. I think that everyone must see it clearly, and I also say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, that this law is not, nor is it about wanting to renovate the burned dorm. The college is not a priority government investment; it is not in any way subject to this law at the moment. And if I'm wrong, then disprove me, my fellow Member, instead of yelling at me for speaking. [[Nacsa Lawrence opens his arms.]] The purpose of this law is to discredit. They only have one goal to put down IX. Krisztina Baranyi was elected by a large majority of the district. That is the only purpose of this bill. [[Peter Ungár: That's right.]] Oh, yeah, and the fact that they're leaving billions in the investors' pockets again. Because this money stays in the investors' pocket. 'Cause dare you tell any of my pro-government fellow Members that any government investment will be made at zero forints profit. I don't think you can justify that. And by the way, I would add that this money is necessary for the municipalities to regulate it so that they really only burden the residents to the extent necessary with the difficulties of building it. I will give you an example: the Danube was Asphalt, I think, the beneficiary of the proposal that first requested and did not receive a permit to use public space. Then he repeated the same request, with only half as many public areas to be used. With all due respect, this perfectly confirms that the likelihood that the contractors will not stretch beyond what is necessary here is minimal. But it really doesn't matter, because I can talk about it for a long time. To sum up, I cannot say anything other than that they are trying to use the legislation system for a nasty set-up, and by the way, what they are arguing about, this law does not even apply to it, even if it is adopted. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I just want to respond to what has been said in a few quick sentences. First of all, all due respect to our fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát and his excellent position that now Jobbik is a partner in settling this dormitory, but why wasn't his better fellow Member speaking up against this Franciscan meeting? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He voted for it!]] And why did you vote for the mayor's proposal? Why? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Really?]] Now, of course, it's easy to pinpoint the whole thing here. I understand that all of a sudden I want to solve this problem with good intentions, but I should have dealt with it there, on a body of representatives, locally. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And then maybe we wouldn't be standing here. The other is that, after all, he gave his decision that the Reformed Church would now be paid 30 million later, if he voted in accordance with the mayor's request for a vote, he would increase the investment by an additional HUF 70-80-90 million. I would like to signal to my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, what we have already discussed here: if you are right in this matter, then, according to your statement, he ultimately played two billion forints to the foreign investor in the case of the 3rd metro. [[Gyula Molnár: It's over! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lawrence: Four!]] About subway four. I'd rather not respond to that, Congressman. Overall, I think that every priority investment can be said that if it is in the interest of a city, a settlement, and whether the territory of the public or district or the city is renewed by the investment, otherwise, in recent times, whether it was an opposition or a pro-government city leadership, they have tried to ensure the creation of the investment with a discount in each case. And I think it is a very flawed logic and argument that there will be extra discounts for entrepreneurs here, because obviously the investor, the municipality, will be able to calculate if such a decision is made and obviously the investment itself will be so much cheaper. Thank you. [[Antal Csárdi: Obviously! Nacsa Lawrence: Obviously.]]
u2020-03-09-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi.
u2020-03-09-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the general debate, we have already discussed in very detail what this legislation is about, and it has proved that the TAB modifier you have done, pro-government representatives, has not brought that amendment to the Committee on Economic Affairs, but to the Committee on Legislative Affairs. What is this amendment about? It is about the fact that it will be possible to enforce these claims and obligations with retroactive effect, i.e. the municipalities will continue to be forced to decide that you say that this revenue will not be due to them. After all, we see now that, as the case of the Danube Asphalt, which my fellow Member has referred, and we have discussed this very long in the general debate, this is the first step. But this, as has been said, is a Trojan horse, a blank cheque, which you want to issue tomorrow by vote, and this will prevent further municipal decisions, as there will be a loss of revenue for the municipalities in the coming period, which will be very difficult to replace. Let me draw this House's attention to the fact that the changes in business tax will also be on the agenda here in this House, because we cannot allow further bleeding of local governments to take place. There was also a brilliant example of this at the Committee on Economic Affairs in Kecskemét, when, at the end of her presentation, the pro-government mayor also gave a very serious statement of justice when she drew attention, as did the Mayor of Székesfehérvár, that there would be very serious problems with cutting the trade tax. And what he suggested there in Kecskemét, that the government should think about returning the personal income tax that you have abolished, getting back to the municipalities again, at least a part of that, because it is a key to development, so that the municipality has revenue. And it's not enough that you're playing with this public domain charge, you're planning some very serious measures that you're not telling us about yet, but we know that what's already gone up will happen. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-250	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán, Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I basically asked for the floor because it is the government's responsibility to ensure constitutionality, so I would like to respond to this type of opposition criticism. But, if I may, I would like to make a general comment before this, which is certainly not going to surprise opposition and pro-government representatives that the government supports the bill before us. [[18.20]] I would like to draw the opposition representatives' attention to one thing: that, from a financial legal point of view, this public domain charge we are talking about is not a tax, it is not a transferred central income. This is a fee which is targeted and cost-bound under the general rules of financial law. Therefore, here per definitionem cannot be an income which is not thus used for purpose and not for this activity or for the investment in question. Only this has been mentioned by several people that the operation of the municipality is impossible. Now, the operation of the municipality cannot be impossible due to the restructuring of a fee revenue, because this fee revenue per definitionem cannot be used for the operation of the municipality, but the costs of that investment relating to the use of public space can therefore be dampened. So what you're talking about can't happen. Obviously, the reason why government support stops because of this bill is that there are major investments and there are less than a dozen projects of high public interest in which the aim and the reason behind the investment are of such general interest that this revenue-gathering logic of the municipalities can be overwritten by the Parliament or the government in law or government decree. We think that's acceptable. Moreover, the transitional rule introduced as an amendment to the Committee on Legislative Affairs, to which the Member referred, does not, in our view, create a constitutional problem, is particularly conducive to legal certainty. The law on legislation, and this also states in black and white that it is possible to apply a regulatory solution that also covers pending cases, or to apply a regulatory solution that does not cover pending cases. This is entirely up to the legislator to decide which transitional arrangement to use. However, if the legislator, as in this case, has decided to order the regulation to be applied to pending cases, in which context, I repeat, a constitutional question cannot arise, then provision should be made for the part of the public use charge which had been legitimate to the municipality for the period prior to the entry into force of the law under the laws in force at that time, not to be affected by this new regulation, because it would be contrary to the prohibition of retroactive legislation. Therefore, this transitional provision explicitly provides that 1 is also applicable to ongoing investments, but 2 is only applicable to the new rates that will follow after the entry into force of the bill. This does not create problems of legal certainty or the rule of law through retroactive legislation, but is specifically an arrangement that eliminates uncertainty, thus strengthening norm clarity and strengthening legal certainty through referrals. Therefore, we can support not only the original bill but also the TAB amendment proposal, so that we can support the single proposal before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-03-09-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dániel Z. Karpát asked how this retroactive effect was. State Secretary Orbán has just said, but the amendment also states that the investor is entitled to this exemption from the date of entry into force of the legislation. Therefore, the retroactive effect would mean that it would still apply before the entry into force of the legislation. Since it does not belong to it, it is only from the day it enters into force, so we cannot speak of a retroactive effect. As is currently the case with the IX. The period after the entry into force of the Act will be deducted pro rata time from the 30-to-a-million-forint public-use charges awarded for the demolition process of the district Reformed College, and, of course, the amount already paid will remain with the municipality for the period since there is no retroactive effect. That is why it is entitled to it from the date of its entry into force. In such cases, a fraction of the amount will have to be set pro rata to time, this will be the practice and therefore there will be no retroactive effect. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, here we are going to have only this exemption for investments in the highest public interest. That's not much. This is only a few pieces a year, the government notes that the Hungarian Gazette can look back on whether investments in the national economy or in the public interest are not high. So it is not all public investments or not all investments with public budgets above 50 per cent. Once again, I will say what we have said in the general debate, but you do not understand that this is not the investor's responsibility, but the investment is subject to this exemption. So the investment will be so much cheaper, because if it is declared a priority investment before the start of the investment, then, of course, these budget lines will no longer apply to it, thus making it cheaper. Even a very important aspect, which has also been raised by my better fellow Member. This investment is good for the people living there, for that municipality. Many of these investments are good for the people there, the environment is beautiful, usable real estates, important functions are added there. By the way, these investments are good for a local government's residential community, they are useful, they are also about investments that improve quality of life, because at times the environment of a building is always built, and the infrastructure is built around it. So this is not about imagining an ivory tower, where this investment is only good for the realization of the investment, but it is also clearly for the benefit of the community. I feel a slight crack in the opposition collusion with Congressman Csárdi, as Gyula Molnár said that the bill had nothing to do with the burning down of the Reformed College, and then you said that this law was only about the fact that Article IX of the Act was a matter of law. Punish the district council in the case of the Reformed College. [[Antal Csárdi: That's not what he said.]] So try to agree whether it's about the Reformed Church or not. We said at the beginning that this case had happened, that it was unprecedented, that Krisztina Baranyi kicked the social consensus, which was enjoyed so far by this case, that the municipality, the body for which he had the opportunity, had let go of these awards in the case of major investments, important investments in church, education and social purposes. However, Krisztina Baranyi broke this consensus, which is why this bill was necessary. It's got nothing to do with being humiliated. It's got nothing to do with being under IX. In the district, the mayor didn't even want to give a 10 percent discount, and she hated this investment. Besides, it achieves a very important goal by means of private donations, donations from believers and public investment. Gyula Molnár said that they would monitor the future life of the law, that is what I am asking you to do, that is very important. He was trying to change our position, and I'm trying to get you to vote yes tomorrow, because for the two-thirds bill, it's important that you support it. That's important, too. I think it will be possible to count the number of these investments. It is important to look at the number of investments in the public interest that have so far been a priority in the national economy. There are currently no ten such investments in the country. I think that, in the case of important investments for the community, where the municipality has often overlooked this award, it should continue to be so, and this is important, so I ask you to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik Group.
u2020-03-09-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The previous comments encouraged me to ask again, as they have just said that they will provide these businesses with extra income and extra profit in ongoing cases. What did they say? From that day on, they will be entitled to the discount. Will the public procurement process be modified, too? These companies have calculated this public use charge among their costs. So if this is calculated by them and they do not have to pay from the day this legislation enters into force, then it will remain with them. So, as we have just said, about ten investments are under way, said my colleague Lőrinc Nacsa. With these ten investments in retrospect, from the day you will adopt this legislation tomorrow, obviously the Jobbik Group will not be able to give its name to this, they will virtually make it impossible for those municipalities in this matter. This extra income will be obtained by those companies by releasing the public use charge. One more important thing: yes, the restoration of the public area could have been financed by the municipalities, which will also remain in the future if you voted on it tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[18.30]]
u2020-03-09-256	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group.
u2020-03-09-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Mr Böröcz! Congressman Nacha! Please state in the record that the renovation of the Reformed College is a priority government investment in the public interest. I beg you, this is the one sentence you're saying that right now, the construction of the dorm falls into this category! That's the only request I have. Two: my fellow Member Nacsa says that the investment will be cheaper. It's not gonna be cheaper. It's not gonna be cheaper. Let's see. Forints 5 billion state resources are available for renovation. At 5 billion forints just to understand the amount of money we're talking about, the Nándor Stadium in Földkuti was built from a little more than a little bit, a 5,000-seat indoor stadium. That's the thing. That is the case, my fellow Members, that a stadium can be built with this money, let alone a college. What I said was worth hearing back from the record, because I didn't say you wanted to punish IX. I said they want to take down Krisztina Baranyi, the IX. The mayor of the district. And I'm gonna keep that up. Moreover, if the primary function of public space charges is to restore public space, please tell me, my fellow Member or Secretary of State, that the newly renovated playground where this public space permit is otherwise located How will you renovate the IX. district municipality. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-258	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to highlight one more thing here in this debate. You have submitted this bill by already adopting a budget for most of the municipalities, in which you calculated this budget revenue for 2020. I would therefore like to say once again that the abolition of part of the public use charge already granted, imposed in the decision, for the period following the entry into force of this legislation, will seriously damage the municipalities and may even require a modification of their own budget. So, again, this legislation does not allow us to accept it.
u2020-03-09-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2020-03-09-261	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Let's be clear about some of the concepts. What does a municipal budget look like? Local government budget consists of normative subsidies, it consists of own revenue, and in this context spends on investments or other purposes, cultural and welfare purposes of the municipality. A significant share of this own revenue comes from local tax revenues, other prices, fees and public use do not amount to 1-5 percent, even less than the small ones. So that doesn't make it impossible for a local government to do so, so let's not overdo it. On the other hand, what we are talking about, let's look at the concepts: priority and public interest. There's a local interest, that's for the government, and that's for the public, that's for everyone in some form. The municipality also represents a great deal of public interest in its various activities. I think that we should not talk about the conflict, but about how this is actually used in public space. You are talking about the investor's side, that the investor will remain profitable, and that will make the investment more expensive. And here they are talking about the investment company or company. And we say that an investment will be cheaper from the customer side, because we do not have to spend money on the expense side to the company. Obviously, the transition must be regulated, on which Balázs Orbán explained the essential criteria. In view of this, I think that using or organizing these funds on a separate basis may not be suitable for housing, as this is very little in a year, in very few cases, and in the future even those planning a budget may know that certain revenues may not be met. A local government will change the budget when it is necessary, up to five times a year. This is happening in the municipalities. If unexpected revenue comes, it raises it, and if unexpected expenditure comes, it reduces it. The body of representatives shall be the depositary of this responsible management. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-09-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-263	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate my request that the Secretary of State is not in the closing, but to confirm that the renewal of the college is a priority or not a priority investment. I am saying that it is not a priority investment, but I think it is worth seeing clearly in this, because if we are not talking about a priority investment, then despite all the communication panels, this law cannot apply to it. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-264	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Again, there's someone else you'd like to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. [[For signal:]] Yes, Antal Csárdi again, please. You've got 48 seconds left. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-265	I'm sorry, I was just trying to...
u2020-03-09-266	Congressman, go ahead and say it.
u2020-03-09-267	Thank you very much. I have tried to wait for you to respond to my request by any pro-government Member, including the Secretary of State. But apparently they do not want to argue with that statement. So I think it is very important that it be included in the report that the renewal of the college is not a priority government investment, so I think that it is important to fix this when we look at the real reason for the law. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-268	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán, Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-09-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would only respond because the question addressed to us as clearly by the main representative of the people, a representative of the Hungarian Parliament, is an order from the government. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] So that's why I'd answer it. The design of the law and without any cynicism, Congressman, is fundamentally different from what you say about it. The design of the law is that it allows for an amendment of a law that can make certain investments of particular interest in law or government decrees. These investments have a certain number. Depends on how we calculate, at the moment we can identify eight of these groups of investments. But after that, this number can be freely expanded by law or by government decree. This could include other investments. There is no doubt that the current case has not been a problem so far because it should not be put around in view of the size of the investment. So, for example, this is the renovation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the renovation of the Castle District, the construction of a small-ball-European championship hall, these are the investments that the legislator generally declares as such; because the size of the investment is something that justifies it. In this case, an exception will have to be made because of Article IX. Mrs. Mayor of the District, the unwritten rule that used to be in such investments, of course, that no charges for the use of public land were collected, he broke it. And that's what we need to build a legal arrangement for. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Finally, one last thought in connection with this, and what Congressman Molnár said. I believe that the task of opposition representatives will be to look at the investments in the future that the government or parliament will make as a major investment in the public interest of investments of the national economy, and to pay attention to the fact that it complies with the conditions laid down by law. It is defined what priority objectives must be met in order to make this decision. If the Government or the parliamentary majority does not make an appropriate decision, it may be challenged before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.40]]
u2020-03-09-270	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have nine seconds for Congressman Antal Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-271	Thank you very much. I would just like to thank the Secretary of State for confirming that investment in the dorm is not subject to this law at the moment and confirmed that we have seen a school example of personalised legislation. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: There is no law in force!]] Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-272	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to speak more within the context of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask... [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr László Böröcz wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-09-273	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly: Mr Krisztina Baranyi, Congressman, we did not want to discredit you, because Mayor Krisztina Baranyi has already humiliated herself with this step. [[A statement from Jobbik: Shame on you!]] The truth is that Mr Secretary of State has told me a lot of things, and my fellow Members have covered a lot of things here in terms of answers. Of course, if the government provides the Reformed Church with a certain amount of money to renovate a dormitory, obviously the church will be able to use it to renovate its own dorm. If you can save money from this in connection with the public use charge, you can obviously have so much more content done during the renewal of the college or reduce the price by that. [[Antal Csárdi: Five billion HUF!]] And Mr Secretary of State is quite right that any such investment, which the government declares as a major investment in the public interest in accordance with the bill, will in each case be able to see that it is otherwise right or wrong, you will be able to decide for yourself. It is possible to argue with this, although I would add that this proposal would not have been necessary if you had been included in Annex IX. In the district, that is not what your coalition partners are doing, and on the mayor's recommendation, they are not trying to bring down the Reformed Church and thereby rebuild the college. So I would ask all of you to consider these, but you will support the law tomorrow, because I think it will benefit us all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Presentation by Gergely Gulyás, Fidesz; László Böröcz, Fidesz; István Bajkai, Fidesz and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, Members T/9284. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 March 2020, CLXXXIX of 2011 discussed the local governments of Hungary. T/9284. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the table of the House intends to amend the law on the local governments of Hungary based on the experience of the year behind us. Unfortunately, as a recurring case, there have been numerous instances in which the municipal representatives who obtained a mandate on the list have not received their credentials. However, this practice could jeopardise to a large extent the smooth functioning of local authorities, which is also required as constitutional standards. Furthermore, it is not negligible that the expression of the electoral will suffers serious injury. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted states that if the elected municipal representative fails to receive his credentials, his mandate will not be established, but he will remain on the list as a candidate. In this way, on the basis of the list, it may subsequently receive a mandate from its representatives if all the candidates on the list have fallen for some reason, whether independent of each other, and cannot complete their mandate. Dear House, The proposal before us also seeks to clarify the conflict of interest rules governing representatives of local governments, non-members of non-members of the committee and full-time mayors. The amendment would not result in conflicts of interest when the representative becomes a member of the supervisory or management board of an entity established by the State or operating with its ownership. If we are talking about a company established by or operating with the ownership of the local government, that person shall not participate in it as a member or as a personal contributor, nor shall he be entitled to be represented. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the rules of conflict of interest for the main job mayors of settlements with a population of more than 3 000 inhabitants, the proposal will in future provide the elected mayors with the possibility of establishing a relationship for the pursuit of health care activities as an alternative job. In doing so, it would not create any obstacles to the legislator's ability to pursue his lifesaving profession on a voluntary basis. However, there is one exception to the norm, namely that basic health care activities are not included in what has been said. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposals before us prove to be suitable to remedy the difficulties encountered in practice, so that, in the future, there can be no possibility of weakening the electoral will and harming legal certainty, in addition to the risk of the smooth functioning of the local authorities. The proposal submitted should therefore be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you, on behalf of the author, if someone would like to speak now. I have received a signal from the authors that they do not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I'll ask Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State, if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State indicates that not now, but at a later date. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. We are discussing the item on the agenda on a time-frame, so it is not possible to make a two-minute comment. First, I will give the floor to the Member who has applied in writing. Mr János Bencsik, an independent Member, came forward in writing. Congressman, please.
u2020-03-09-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Where are the times when Tamás Deutsch could not be Minister of Youth and Sports until he passed his state exam? ! That's what I remembered when I read this bill. At the end of last year, you made a law that allowed a 22-year-old law student to become Deputy State Secretary in the name of Zsófia Rácz. But government parties have a long tradition of personalised legislation. In 2010, one of the most famous, lex Borkai, was created for the sake of the then mayor of Fidesz Győr, so that three years instead of five years at the armed forces would suffice. But it is also worth recalling that, for example, Peter Polt is now able to assist in a series of economic crimes by abolishing the former statutory retirement age of the Attorney General in his case as well. But we could also mention in 2010 the legislation which at that time prohibited the installation of posters on electric poles. Then their goal was to make the business of Lajos Simicska's competition impossible. Then, when Lajos Simicska fell out of the pics, this law was abolished in 2015, and then a new NER-oligarch, István Garancsi, was allowed to campaign again on the columns. So it is clear from this that you really have the rule of law, the rule of law, does not mean much when it comes to your own personal political interests. I would like to ask you what is next; for example, will you be an example of a lex Simonka, which will allow prisoned politicians to return to politics without downloading their own statute of limitations? [[18.50]] Or will he be a lex Butcher, for example, which states that in the case of public investments above a billion forints, only direct relatives of Lőrinc Mészáros can win? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] For example, let us recall the example of Paul Schmitt, for whom, eight years ago, you, my honourable members of the Government, were able to amend the Fundamental Law so that only two thirds of his salary or allowance could be taken after the departure of the former Head of State. The question arises, for example, that a lex Orbán will be able to refurbish stadiums, castles after the term of office of the former Prime Minister, for example, only for the husband of the first daughter. My dear fellow Members. It would be easier if they created a government green number that all the Fidesz politicians could call, and with a phone order, they could drop off a wish list of laws they'd like to amend, and then they wouldn't have to beat various committees, laws, it would be much easier to do so. I ask you not to take this seriously, let this be a warning sign, and please return to the ground of legislation and try to eliminate and reduce the number and quantity of personal laws. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-09-278	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2020-03-09-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the authors, Mr Nacsa did not want to comment [[Nacsa Lawrence: I will!]] But I'm sure I'll make him speak with my words [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] 'Cause we had a small rumble between us on this law on the Justice Committee. I asked two important questions about this bill, when it was about the lex Dézi part, to tell me why it is not possible to work in primary care and why it cannot be introduced in the same way in settlements under the number of three thousand. What was your answer? That in settlements above three thousand inhabitants the full-time mayor is required, and otherwise not in primary care because the doctor cannot contract with his employer after the basic supply is a municipal authority. Yes, from my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, this really came out quite simply and simply, because he did not start, let's say, to think further about the fact that not all doctors, let's say, would be involved in basic care in their own settlement, let's say, he also forgot to take into account that many of the settlements under the number of three thousand have full-time mayors. But then, when I went home and I wondered if this lex Dezsi thing I don't think is going to be presented today, since we know that Mr. Dezsi's opinion, like mine, is that football is not a sport, so he's grown a lot for me. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] This proposal may not have gone in since then, but how embarrassing it would be to withdraw it, in any case, the point is this. This violates the principle of equal treatment, because, on the one hand, there is a full-time mayor in many settlements of less than three thousand people, two: why shouldn't a district doctor in one settlement be mayor in another settlement? No? I mean, I don't mean to offend anyone, but let's say, for example, we could lead the intellect back to the mayor's arena. Because who do we exclude from this position? The doctors, the district doctors, the intellect, who knows all the residents of the settlement, who, by the way, has put their whole lives in the service of those people. It wasn't like that in the past. It must have been a long time ago. Not today, since Fidesz's interests would be greatly affected by the possible flooding of the mayor's offices as top officials by members of the most intellectual profession. I believe that, but then I would like to say that 89 percent of the settlements are less than three thousand souls. 23 percent of the population lives in these settlements of less than 3,000 inhabitants. Now, for one third of this population, the government can't provide regional medical supplies, so there are 80-85-year-old doctors working. Well, how better it would be if these people, who are really on 24-hour duty by profession, couldn't be... if you've already brought this principle into the legislation, brought it into the municipal system by Fidesz with this proposal, then why can't this apply to everyone who could be mayor in addition to their medical profession? I just don't get it. I mean, because Mr. Dezsi has to continue his cardiology, but we don't respect the 65-year-old district doctor who can't retire in life because he doesn't have a replacement because the government took care of it. Then why can't he be mayor, like, in a settlement with 1,800 souls? If anyone, my fellow Member, Róbert Dudás, knows what a small town mayor is. You know that, don't you? A 24-hour caretaker. Ask him, he can tell you. Now, doctors are on 24-hour duty for the rest of their lives. If Mr. Dezsi has created this situation with his person, or Fidesz, then why does the petitioner and the government's representative humiliate doctors who would like to serve as mayors in countless settlements? Because if it's for Mr. Dezsi, then go to a supply system where there's a constant shortage of people. So what we expect from the district doctor in Cajágroböge's underwear is that he does not retire until his death, he does not stop his profession, because there is no replacement, we expect, but we do not respect that if one of his colleagues is honoured by law, he may at least benefit from the settlement where he would like to be a mayor or district doctor of the neighbouring municipality, or himself, if he does not continue in the basic care system, but rather in a private practice, with a contract with OEP; he has many forms. So I just wanted to say, my fellow Member, Nacsa, that if you have so simply lost me in the Justice Committee and thought that you have rounded up the story, I will now open the story to you as a rapporteur, and please answer these questions, why does not the principle of equal treatment enshrined in the Fundamental Law apply to all mayors and practitioners of all medical professions with this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-280	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear tableds, I do not want to bring back the thoughts expressed in the general debate once again, and I would like to make three brief points. It is true here, too, that the Secretary of State or the authors, which I just said, is not a threat, but rather a wake-up call - we will also be paying attention here, because my fellow Members here have analysed the most trivial thing at length, but let us also pay attention to who will be the first failed person to go into the supervisory board of a public company. Obviously, it's meant to be someone again. We don't know yet, but we'll be watching. And let me ask you not to introduce the law next week, if possible, on the other hand, to forbid the representatives of the local government, because it would not really be fair to take this opportunity away from the representatives of the local government. The other thing I don't understand is what the logic is - if someone gets on the list, doesn't get a mandate, doesn't get a mandate, and then they might be able to bring it back; there was such a life situation with you, I'll tell you honestly, I've been in politics for years, I've never heard anything like it. If someone resigns from the list, it fails, wait a cycle, wait a season, and then comes back next season. As far as the mayor of Győr is concerned, we wish him good luck, but we can see that he is in great momentum, so we do not want to discourage him from surgery or work. What I would like to say in addition: what Mr Bencsik said, who was here, remembers, in the general debate, I also collected who in recent years were the beneficiaries of Fidesz's legislative technology, so how, how, and then I received a signal from the President of the SAO that I had taken him out of line, because there is no obligation for the SAO President to transfer someone from Parliament to the most important audit body. I didn't exactly put it that way. I would like to say to Mr Domokos here that he could not have been a member of the Fiscal Council, who had been a Member of Parliament. He became a member of the Fiscal Council with this SAO-president thing, and the law was amended to do so, so it really needed to be transformed that he was a Member of Parliament in the previous period. [[19.00]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, obviously you know that we are not going to vote, but I would just like to say in relation to this law that we will also be watching what is happening again; not only the mayor of Győr, we already understand, but also the other two cases. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-09-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-03-09-283	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not want to repeat what was said in the general debate either, but I can say that this bill has become worse than it was before, following the Commission's debate and following the amendments. So, of course, the LMP fraction will vote against this. However, I have a few questions for the authors. I am very pleased that you are here, and I am sure you will be very active in this debate. Basically, I have already pointed out in the general debate that there is a situation that seems to be a very strong contradiction in the legislation that has now been established. Article 28 of the municipal law. § (1) provides that the mandate of the local government representative is to be established by the election of the local government representative. The current amendment raises a paragraph (2) that says that if the elected Member does not take up his credentials, then his mandate will not be created. That seems like a very strong contradiction to me. I would like someone to resolve this because it is very clear (paragraph 1) that, when elected, in practice, when the vote is closed, the municipal mandate is created, then the rights are created. Compared to this, the situation that came in the form of an amending proposal is even more shocking, that the Member who has resigned from his mandate will remain on the list and that he can subsequently obtain a mandate as a representative. That's pretty amazing. Congressman Bencsik has very well demonstrated how the law has been designed and how they ignore the fundamental principles of legislation, but I do not think this situation is ridiculous for a minute, but it is quite shocking. So, specifically, someone gave up taking over his mandate, gave up working as a representative after the election, and then, with such an amendment, in the case of this election in October, they say that he will still be elected as a representative. That's pretty amazing. Not to mention that there's absolutely retrospective legislation going on here, because we've already had a match, we've had a match, we've had an election, and we're going to change the rules of the game to this election. In fact, this has also been said by several of my fellow Members that there can be quite clear motivation behind this, obviously there are situations like these, and there are people who I would like to open the way again with such personalised legislation. That's pretty amazing. In particular, the municipal law is violated, the local government is violated in such a way that it is being pummeled as they please, and the local government law is thrown out of context. As regards personalised legislation, many things have already been said, my fellow Members, I do not wish to repeat them in any way, but this amendment is not acceptable from a substantive point of view. Here, before the mayor election in Győr, this must be at least for their benefit, it has already been announced that this will be done, so if Mr. Dezsi wins the mayor's election, then this will be adapted to his person. However, with this being said in advance that they were going to do so, they were obviously able to find a candidate in this way who would not disgrace you in Győr after the already shameful situations, and this was an inconvenience that had to be undertaken to adapt the legislation to the needs. But it's amazing! Here, Mr Ovadi said in his introductory thoughts that the legislation should be fine-tuned on the basis of the experience of recent years. As I understand it, this is a legal situation that has existed since 2013, which is now, after 7 years, subject to a political situation with good pre-arranged intentions. This is unacceptable! Then you said that the mayor should be a full-time mayor in a specific category of settlements and created a conflict of interest. Yet now you are facing a specific situation with yourself and with the situation in 2013 and you are saying that this is still being overwritten. I think it's ridiculous in this way, too. As regards other conflict of interest rules, we have already expressed our view in the general debate that this is in no way a good direction. So what we can say is that, along with this being very instructive and symbolic, as Congressman Benchik has presented this situation, you will also say that this is not ridiculous at all and that we have no reason to laugh. What you're doing with the title of legislation is quite an outrage. LMP will vote no for this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group, as rapporteur.
u2020-03-09-285	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not want to repeat the arguments made in the general debate and the general debate, when we presented the bill, the various positions expressed at that time. I'd like to answer a few questions, and I'd like to put some points to your attention. First of all, I think that this legal provision is correct in relation to basic care, on the one hand, because it is obvious that there should be no one in charge of it, so the local government also has basic supply obligations that arise from the law. On the other hand, I do not think it is right to have relations with the co-Mayors of neighbouring settlements or remote settlements. I do not consider this to be a healthy situation, which is why I support the current form of the law, because if someone is not in it on the one hand, then there is a physical barrier, so from Győr, Nyíregyháza, Szeged, Pécs we could also go to the other part of the country for basic care, but obviously the mayor is not near his settlement. On the other hand, when it comes to a surrounding settlement, I think it is wrong in the basic care of a co-counsel, partner mayor, whether or not from other party positions, to establish a subordination and power relationship with an already elected mayor and another elected mayor. That is why we do not support participation in primary care. Please accept this in my answer that I do not believe that this creates a healthy situation between elected mayors, whether in a party or in other party positions, and that this can cause tensions between municipalities and power relations that are not healthy in the life of local governments. For settlements under 3 thousand, it is not mandatory to do so in full-time. So if someone wants to do medical work with him, he can choose not to do his mayor's full-time job. It is only mandatory to perform the tasks of mayor and city manager in full-time jobs above 3,000 persons. By the way, the list is long: scientific, educational, literary, editorial, artistic, foster-parent employment, legal-protected intellectual activity. So this is not the only exception, I say this to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, but the list of these exceptions is extended by one, and again, it is because we do not want to make any obstacles to saving lives. And I think that if you want to do your medical profession properly as mayor of a small settlement, you can choose not to do your mayor's full-time job. In large settlements and settlements over 3 thousand, you can't even choose non-full-time activities as head of settlements, so this passu of the legislation is justified. I told Congressman Gyula Molnár that we were listening, too. The first person in the greasy board was your former defendant, Imre Lakos, so that's it. We've been watching, too. Let us also note that after October 13th, it was your defendant-partner who was appointed to the greasy board of directors by Gergely Christmas, so if you're watching him, then allow us to watch him, too... [[Gyula Molnár: Good.]] Thank you very much. I would say to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes that the rules of the game have not changed, indeed! This law is precisely to ensure that the electoral will is not violated after the electoral struggle with equal rules of play. And given your point of view, the TAB modifier contains the exchange of words that it is not your mandate that will not be created, but if you do not take over your credentials. Thank you very much for bringing this to our attention, and with this amendment we have settled this. And the rules of the game were precisely about choosing a body, choosing a list of representatives, and if the list runs out, then the electoral will cannot prevail. It is precisely that the rules of the game on which the election result was made can be respected, and the candidate who has resigned can only come back if the list is completely exhausted, even for completely separate reasons. It would be precisely a change in the rules of the game if there were to be a hundred iks thousand and ten thousand people without representation, who, by the way, voted for that party list and ran out of candidates. It is precisely that the electoral will can continue to be respected and that the electoral will is respected by the legislator, by the law-applicationer, and by the remaining time, which is left over from that municipal cycle, that the representation of those people should be effective there; and not that, in respect of a list that is run out, another party, another ideology, or other principles, will take over the seats of representatives to replenish the body of representatives of the local government. I think what you're saying is exactly the opposite. It was not the rules of the game that changed, but the proposal to amend this law to respect and enforce the electoral will. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-09-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. [[19.10]]
u2020-03-09-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, I would argue with my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, when he talks about the possibility that the doctor might choose the mayor who doesn't have a full-time job. There is a problem again, because according to the rules of forming logic, which you have just said, in the case of a doctor working in primary care in the neighbouring or a little further settlement or in the case of the mayor there, there is a problem again, because if you choose not to be full-time, but side-time, you will face the exact same problem that you will be employed by another mayor and not a full-time mayor in another settlement. So that logic wasn't good, so you couldn't convince him. The other is to say that you can choose a settlement of less than 3,000 people, perhaps a doctor, that he does not work as a full-time mayor, and then he has resolved to practice his medical profession. Well, I'm sorry about that. If you can make up for the shortage of two hours a day in your profession in either primary or hospital care, why would you choose not to be a full-time mayor when you can't make a living on your two-hour order? So it's very good, it's very simple to tell others how to do it, but especially in the countryside and in small towns there are a lot of problems that if we could find a doctor for two hours a day, they'd be in a better position. And why wouldn't it be such a life situation that a doctor could become mayor and take care of that two-hour order time a day? Why would he choose not to be a full-time mayor? So I would like to bring this thinking into your world, and if, for the sake of a prominent person, you are already introducing legislative proposals, you should respect those working in the same state of life and in the same profession, otherwise in the absence of a profession in the country, by saying that along this logic, you do make this proposal, since you are already coming out to Mr Dezsi, extend it to people who are indeed living in the territory of a quarter of our Hungarian nation. That's a huge number. I just told you that 23 percent of the population is in a similar situation, where such a favourable rule in the health care system could provide very serious help, and we could increase the level of the mayor's intellect with them. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-288	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-289	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Why has this proposal come before us not now, but in 2013, when it was permitted, by the way, if we now point out to the doctors this debate today that a doctor could be mayor? There was a problem, because he couldn't get to school, he couldn't get to public property, all the money, especially in small towns, went to medical offices. This was one of the reasons why the settlements below 3 thousand would cease to exist. The other thing Andrea Varga-Damm says is what the logic is or doesn't make sense if one doctor doesn't live in that settlement. The fact that there are common offices today, there are joint council meetings, there are local authorities as joint employers, since there are joint offices of 12, 16, 7, 8 municipalities, and at the joint board meeting they set out their budgets, in which they also decide to carry out mandatory tasks. And indeed, it is a difficult situation when he is on the board and would be his own employer, so we have tightened up several cases of conflict of interest rules. At that time, there was a Member of Parliament or a Party who considered this to be too strict. Seven years have passed, someone mentioned that the practice is indeed worth adjusting at times in legislation. I think it would have been more elegant if, as a general rule, we had allowed this profession to be practiced and provided exceptions in such a way that those who are in employment [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes!]] - who's in a contractual relationship. This would have been better suited to my approach to the rule of law, but I also believe that this bill is capable of resolving this situation. So what I can suggest to honourable Members is that any situation that has or has not worked out socially over the past few years is worth reviewing and it is worth dealing with. This is also what this legislation aims to do, by gathering experience, to try to transform the rules that may not have fulfilled the expectations of it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-03-09-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2020-03-09-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with Mr Kovács, but I would add that before an election it would be appropriate to amend these laws, as far as the electoral law is concerned, not a few months after an election. So it's not supposed to be elegant anymore. Thank you very much, Mr Nacsa, as rapporteur, for your response. Yes, I have seen that they have tried to modify these two paragraphs a little, which I have referred to, but I see very strongly that this contradiction has still not been resolved. Congressman, look at this: paragraph 1 in the law states that the mandate, rights and obligations of the local government representative are generated by the election of the local government representative, point. So when the election is over, the person empowered to do so can be considered a representative. They will bring this paragraph (2) in if the municipal representative elected from the list does not receive his credentials. This absolutely does not affect (paragraph 1) the fact that his representative's mandate has been established remains on the list; I do not understand this. So, according to paragraph 1 he became a Member, and according to the amended paragraph 2 that you are now importing, he remains on the list, and on the basis of the list he can obtain a mandate for representatives of local governments on the basis of the election and other laws. So this is a perfect contradiction, because (paragraph 1) states at the same time that by his election he has obtained a mandate as a representative, point, and paragraph (2) indicates different cases that he remains on the list and can obtain a mandate as a representative. I feel that this is a serious legal problem and that there is still a contradiction in the proposal that I see that you have tried to amend, but I do not think that it has been possible to make this legislation coherent. Thank you.
u2020-03-09-292	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Gyula Molnár, Member of the MSZP Group.
u2020-03-09-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I got a serious threat from the people in front of me to be brief, so I'm gonna be brief, and I'm just gonna say this because I want to get a little out of this medical dilemma. In the other matter, in which Congressman Nacsa has now responded to me, give me an example where there was a problem that MEPs ran out of lists and therefore an early election had to be issued. We've been talking here with my experienced city council rep friends, and we're sitting in circles here. What I'm saying is, if you run out of MEPs on a list, I'd rather have an early election there, because there's something really wrong with the lists or the lists. So, honestly, I don't think it's so lifelike that I just can't really find the words. If you run out of people on the list, then there's an early election. As for the other thing: I understand the payback you said, Mr Lakos did not become a representative anywhere in any local government, so he is, in this respect, a party politician on the board where he is. What I've been trying to say is that I can see that some people aren't happy that they've lost the municipal election, and they need to be given a state mandate. My request is not to be forbidden on the way back, that was just my sentence. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-295	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I, too, would like to join Congressman Molnar's words. I was a municipal representative just a month ago, and I still have a vivid list setting and October 13th, so I pretty much know how a list is made and how it stands up: we are talking about multiple over-insured lists. [[19.20]] So, in fact, I would be interested to know that when Congressman Nacsa talks about how the electoral will is violated if this law does not speak as you think it is, how much it can be damaged, because Debrecent is an example, and I would join Congressman Molnár here, if people run out of the list, that means that Debrecent was attacked by a nuclear attack. So I would like you to give me an example as a municipal representative, who still has vivid memories of how this list works. I think that if you get a microphone in your hand, Congressman, it'll make this interaction a lot easier, and you can say it louder, because I don't understand what you're talking about right now, but if you could enlighten us, who are sitting here, I think we'd be happy to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-09-296	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2020-03-09-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa doesn't seem to be responding. Then I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to reassure me that you are not about to adopt an incoherent piece of legislation tomorrow. Solve the contradiction to which paragraphs (1) and (2) of paragraph 28 apply. I drew attention to this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-09-298	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the debate is closed. First, on behalf of the government, I would like to ask Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State, if you would like to respond. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] No. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate on behalf of the authors. Here you go.
u2020-03-09-299	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Answering the questions of the leader of the group: there are usually more people on a list than the number of seats the party list acquires. So there's a line. But there are a lot of people on the list who do not have a representative's mandate, or who are not asked to take over their representative's mandate, because they did not get as many votes as the list of the party or party association has, which is where the representatives are, so they are not elected. That's why there's an act that doesn't take over your credentials. This has happened in your party as well, in parliamentary elections, not to receive a certain candidate's credentials. So, although he is an elected Member, but because he does not take his credentials and then he does not take the oath, the legal relationship will not be established, so this Member will remain on the list as per the current amendment. You are absolutely right that the term "the mandate" is not created properly, so we have taken this out, but the receipt of the credentials is a legal act that is regulated by a law with which this incoherence you have already indicated is settled. So the law is perfectly appropriate. Thank you very much for your signal, because you were absolutely right about this. Since his mandate is established, but then he does not take over his credentials, he will be returned to the end of the list, and from then on he will be able to fill it again if the Members run out before him. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Varga, that such a problem does not, of course, occur in a city the size of Debrecen. You should not start from your own local government experience, where there is also a regional and list selection, but from small settlement districts, where you are familiar with the municipal electoral system, there are only list votes, and there the number of persons on the list can run out. There's been such a problem in the small settlements. Once again, Congressman, it is not a matter of giving up a body, but of countless separate reasons. Tragedy may occur, death, another kind of assignment that is incompatible with the local government's representative, so there may be a number of separate reasons. In this respect, the most vulnerable area is possible in the small-scale elections to small-scale settlements. Obviously, we are not thinking of a city the size of Debrecen, where there are individual districts, and the composition of the body is so; so let's not confuse this. Thank you again, everyone, who has given your opinion in this debate. I ask you, although it has not been said now, but even Jobbik has made such an observation in the general debate that there are also forward-looking elements in this law, such as the strengthening of conflicts of interest with representatives of local governments and many other issues, do not stand in the way of saving someone's life and vote on this law tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of "Actual affairs." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-301	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. The currentity of my post- Agenda speech is that the National Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the Government of Hungary have recently concluded a strategic cooperation agreement with each other. The history of Hungarian pharmaceutical manufacturing dates back more than a hundred years, and we can also say that Hungarian pharmaceutical production is world-class, and this domestic industry has received serious recognition worldwide. Domestic-owned pharmaceutical companies directly provide 22,000 jobs, including suppliers, to 40,000 our countrymen and families. Magyos is the most important representative of domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers. The National Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers, which brings together 35 member companies, celebrates the 30th anniversary of its founding. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary bases its public work on dialogue, and this is no different for pharmaceutical manufacturers. The sales of the sector in 2019 exceeded HUF 725 billion, in 2018, Hungarian pharmaceutical companies contributed nearly HUF 80 billion to the country's budget. Thank you for that. Dear Parliament, Under these circumstances, the strategic cooperation agreement was reached between the National Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the Government of Hungary. In this agreement, which was signed by President Dávid Greskovits and Minister Péter Szijjártó, the Government of Hungary undertakes to develop the pharmaceutical strategy together with pharmaceutical manufacturers, the cooperating parties will jointly shape the Hungarian R &amp; D environment. Thanks to this agreement, Magyos can give preliminary opinions on and make proposals for legislation affecting the sector. Within the framework of the cooperation, Magyosz maintains the safe survival of the Hungarian patient care, seeks to connect Hungarian suppliers to the supply chain, increase their export activity, increase their R &amp; D work, maintain the number of employees. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary is therefore seeking a continuous and long-term cooperation with Hungarian pharmaceutical manufacturers. And that this strategic cooperation agreement is not just a signed paper, a document, it also shows that the Ministry and the National Association of Hungarian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers agreed on a joint proposal, a legislative amendment, which will make it significantly easier for Hungarian pharmaceutical manufacturers to work on the basis of a Polish example, and which you will soon be able to learn about. I ask that you support this bill or amendment with your vote here in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-03-09-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a post- Agenda speech:, Is the Prime Minister really the protector of Christian Europe? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity. We could close this question very quickly by saying no, but I think we should discuss this in a little bit more detail. A very serious issue of fate, we have faced very serious and ominous developments in the context of the migration crisis. It is clear that once again a situation has emerged that hundreds of thousands of migrants could easily start moving towards the middle of Europe, including, of course, the Hungarian border. This situation emerged because the President Erdoğan, whom Prime Minister Viktor Orbán repeatedly referred to as his friend, started blackmailing Europe again, but now he is not only blackmailing Europe, but he decided to open the borders to migrants. Moreover, on the basis of the latest developments, Greece is finally forced to fulfil its already binding tasks and therefore to protect the borders. At the same time, President Erdoğan also suggested to Greece that they open the borders, so that they too should be free from the problem and let migrants move on to Europe. A very serious crisis is beginning to develop, more precisely the crisis we are seeing, and it is obvious that this is not a short-term problem, it will escalate in the situation. It is quite a serious problem that the agreement that the European Union has tacitly concluded with President Erdoğan is worth about that, so it worked for virtually a few years, and when the Turkish President thought that he had political interests to break it up in his own way, it proved virtually null and void. Unfortunately, it must be said that, during this time, in these few years, Europe has not taken advantage of this time and has not taken steps to identify the causes of migration in a meaningful way, on the one hand, in general, and to initiate meaningful action to reduce the causes of migration. [[19.30]] On the other hand, the European political elite, the European Union, has failed to fulfil its obligation to defend its own borders. And during that time, unfortunately, we have seen the irresponsibleness not only in European but also in domestic politics, which we can see from the government and Fidesz politicians, that the migration crisis is seen as a kind of political tool, and they are clearly interested in maintaining this situation, and that is to scare people, together with knowing that, of course, this is an extremely serious problem. On the other hand, we have also seen that, as in Europe, a significant part of the political elite is skeptical about the problem and has not yet been willing to engage in a substantive debate. This is what we have seen, especially from the Hungarian left-wing parties, that they have also denied the weight of the problem themselves, and that we really have to face it. But the situation with the Prime Minister is frightening in itself. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is trying to play a political role as if he were the protector of Christian Europe. However, this is contrary to what we can see from him. So he's making a close alliance with dictators, politicians, and he's calling politicians, dictators who can't be said to be friends with Christian Europe. President Erdoğan can be said in particular. One thing must be said in any case, in relation to the Turkish minority in Europe, it urges that this huge minority should not be integrated and that it is able to use the Turkish minority in Europe as a political tool, as a political weapon, to pursue its own political goals and coincide with the destabilisation of the European Union. We can also see this from this example that it is able to blackmail Europe at any time and to break any kind of agreement at any time. The Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's attitude to President Erdoğan is particularly frightening. It is worth recalling it back to Parliament with a few citations. In 2015, Mr Orbán simply said that we Europeans should actually say mass to President Erdoğan every week, regardless of any political views. Now there is no Fidesz Member or member of the government present, but I would ask you that you still believe that there should be a Mass on President Erdoğan. The Prime Minister has repeatedly called President Erdoğan a friend, and he has also said that one can stand by his friends even if it is uncomfortable. I would like to know now how Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sees the current situation, and he sees the time to perhaps turn his back on his friend, or if he has a real strong political alliance and friendship with President Erdoğan, then he will take action to re-evaluate the situation and close the borders of Turkey again and not put the European Union in such a position. The LMP position on migration is clear that Europe's external borders must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped, and it is also quite clear that immigration policy must remain national. Let us say that solving the migration crisis, thus finding real solutions, is a fate issue for the whole of Europe, so it is also a fate issue for Hungary. We will put forward this comprehensive proposal for a decision once again, which would address this issue, and we sincerely hope that the situation that we have just developed will give us the opportunity to have an honest exploratory debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke with the title after Women's Day. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2020-03-09-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I did not want to make a speech in Parliament on women's day, but the report with the Secretary of State Katalin Novák led me to do so after the agenda. I think that celebrating women's day could be a private matter if you didn't take on such an important position as Secretary of State Katalin Novak, the Secretary of State for Family Affairs in the government. Although an article was published in one of the newspapers or web portals where he said that they did not celebrate this great day in their families, he did not expect a flower from his husband and son. He says: "This day is exactly like any other day in our country. Of course, I'm not complaining, because Mother's Day is very important in the family, so we can't let the greeting go. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is clear here that Katalin Novak mixes two important festivals, but then goes on to say: "The fact that I was born to be a woman is a privilege for which I am very grateful and affects every day. That's why I've experienced the miracle of giving birth to a child three times. I think that today in Hungary there are hundreds of thousands of families and women who cannot have children, and not because they do not want to, but some disease prevents them from doing so. And to reveal on women's day to a secretary of state who is responsible for families, that he considers it the greatest miracle of his life, which is natural, and I consider it so, but I am sorry, don't insult hundreds of thousands of Hungarian women on women's day. Don't tell them they're not equals like the others. I figured out why I don't like women's day. Because such sayings have warned me for ten years that I am not a full citizen of this country, because I cannot fulfill what some people here think, let's say, within politics, that I was born only to have children and to have children afterwards. And I feel really bad about the expression, because it just slipped out of my mouth, so I'm sorry, Mr. President, if it's coming from a woman's mouth. I challenge myself on behalf of women who can't help becoming mothers! And Katalin Novak forgot one more thing: Women's Day is a very serious achievement for women, for women's movement. This was started because women did not have the right to vote, women could not work, and they were still able to work for much less in Hungary than men. We are talking about rights that we are not discussing with women on women's day, but we are trying to recall to our fellow human beings those rights that were not natural, let's say, a hundred years ago, not for everyone, could not have. And then we could talk about the right to study. Let's not confuse it with motherhood, that's what I'm asking of Katalin Novak. And I ask Katalin Novak not to mention it to those ladies on such a day... yes, there will be one day, the first Sunday of May, called Mother's Day, which is at least as painful for these ladies and families where no child can be born. I think that when we celebrate such days, we should also consider people who cannot experience this miracle and this happiness. That's what I'm asking everyone, and especially the members of the government, to think about them at a time like this, and not to insult people who don't have that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-09-306	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, To speak after the agenda, Congresswoman Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik Group said to you, "This is what the students are calling for." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-09-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As parents, when I have a 10th and a 12th-grade big boy, I always remember when they left for the first class, how much we waited for them to finally be schoolchildren. Then, as the years passed, and as a parent, I learned what it was like to have a child in public education, we couldn't wait to leave primary school and finally go to secondary education. I must say, fellow Members, that I am now looking forward to leaving public education and leaving high school and finally having children in higher education. I'm saying this because they themselves make up ideas that there's a very big problem with the education system. They're just students. I got a few sentences from the Siófok constituency, as students see the current education system. I promised them that here, within the walls of Parliament, I would tell them the messages they were sending you from the constituencies of Siófok. Instead of filling objects, there could be classes that help you choose the university. I think it's a legitimate request. [[19.40]] - Basic first-aid and health classes. I also think that we should talk as much as possible about the problems that are accessible by education, and yes, they concern health care, because these students would like to know more not only within the biology class, but also from other aspects. The teaching of foreign languages is not effective, the few language teachers cannot teach ten extra children effectively, especially the practice of speech, which is the most important. I have to agree with this student who wrote this down. Because what is going on in today's Hungarian language education is not only not effective, but it is sometimes useless. We have to say this because speaking-centric education in language education works, but unfortunately, in a school with a standard curriculum, it is not enough. While the government is trying to make these language lessons effective, as long as it's not speech-centric, it's still the same old system that grammar is pounded into the children's heads, and it's a frustration that makes them unable to speak, and these children want to speak foreign languages. That is what the government should now finally understand and change language teaching. Let the teachers choose the book on which the curriculum is built, not tell from the center how to teach, because everyone is trying to teach in a different way. I think that this is something that the opposition has said a lot about, that this centralized textbook market that you have created is also not in the interests of children, not in the interests of students. So both children and students see that this centralised textbook market is not for the future. They teach us things we won't be able to use in life. More emphasis on language education! To strengthen language education, training for adult life, media, singing classes, 11th grade, 12th grade lifestyle, farming or anything useful. This is the true request of students, because they also recognize that there are educational materials in the curriculum that they will not be able to use in the future, but that is what students need, whether financial or farming knowledge that would be essential. There is a point here that Jobbik also calls for, and this is the abolition of zero hours. The elimination of zero hours would be necessary because children and students are in school for 8-9 hours, they are tired, and if they start at zero hours the next day, then not only can it be said that they are not effective, but are directly harmful to the body. So this is what the students are telling you to do, to look at it and to look at their aspects, because without it, we cannot build the future, because we know that our children are the future, and they need more support. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-308	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "Remembrance to the Historical Paper." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-09-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, They must have gotten used to me remembering from week to week one of our achievements, a historical memory that certainly contributed to our history and to the development of our country. Today, 170 years ago, on 9 March 1850, the Pesti Napló newspaper was launched, which worked until October 1939. It was considered the most important press history achievement of the post-freedom period, since it was launched as a newspaper without censorship, without the influence of power, founded by intellectuals who needed credible and wide-ranging information to citizens. It was founded by a gentleman named Ferenc Császár, who was a judge of the board, a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and a prominent member of the Kisfaludy Society; we all know who learned history that at that time the Kisfaludy Society had an important intellectual influence on the intellectuals of our country. Ferenc Deák's famous article, the Easter article, was published in this paper on 16 April 1865, which then launched a broad social polarity about the need for reconciliation and the process of reconciliation between the various social groups and the various political sides, and then the reconciliation took place. Publishers and editors in chief followed this period, during the 89 years he became an innumerable editor-in-chief and owner, but the point was that the paper remained. This is where the first journalistic strike in the world broke out in 1911, which was successful because the publisher gave the raise to the journalists. In 1919, during the period of the Republic of the Council, the first issue was banned, and on September 28, 19 the first page of which remained empty, because censorship refused to allow the articles to appear. In 1933 Andor Miklós died, who came to the paper as editor in the early 1900s, and in 1910 he went with more of himself, and in 1920 he returned to the paper as owner and carried it on for 13 years. At the time of his death, he left it to his wife, Frida Fungalgángyi, the great actress of that period, but in the 1939s there was such an impenetrable economic and political relationship that the state had taken away the printing press and the paper The Est and the publication of this newspaper from the owners. That's the end of the paper. As a civil newspaper, this paper has been published for the longest time in the last two hundred years, and it has been the faithful chronicle of our country, Hungary's political, economic, cultural and scientific life. Today, when we talk about the importance of freedom of the press every day, when we talk about the fact that fake news, already fake news, we talk about it all over the world, how serious destruction they can cause in society, it is a great pleasure to stop for a minute, for example, when we remember such an anniversary, when we remember a page that has worked for nearly 90 years, where credibility, wide-ranging information, reliability, social-building potential of information have existed for such a long time, and we can say that in Hungary's life, for example, this paper is a legacy that could be built on heritage today by those who call themselves the press. In today's world, in the world of fake news, the press is not a press, it's a trombone. I suggest that all those who are doing this today, that they sometimes stop, remember the historical papers that have been able to preserve the true nature of the press for many decades, for almost a century. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-310	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group also spoke after the agenda, or let us free our country from the burden of transit. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-311	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, this is going to be a subject on which it can be clearly seen that the green light that the government is now proclaiming is indeed an ideally and effectively sound paradigm shift, or it's not about anything else but the fact that they're covering a green-painted camouflage for their activities. The geographical situation of Hungary would make Hungary the node of the transport Corridors, as we can only think of our railway network, the trans-European rail freight network, and we can talk about some 3,000 kilometers of sections here in Hungary as well. So, from the north to the south, from the east to the west, these very important European corridors wind us. Obviously, nothing would work without transport, the sector itself has a huge capacity to generate GDP, as we can talk about 10 percent on the EU average. However, we also need to see that this has an unintended, so-called negative external effect. [[19.50]] The question is just how much we can reduce this. In our opinion, a proper transport policy could save tens and hundreds of billions for the Hungarian people. There are certain EU expectations that aim to shift transport and transport relations towards environmentally friendly and energy-friendly modes of transport. The EU Transport White Paper, published in 2011, also sets out certain targets on the basis of which, say, 30% of road freight transport should be shifted to rail by 2030, and an even bolder target has been set by 2050, where a quite fantastic number has been targeted, and 50 percent should go from road to rail. For Jobbik, for which the protection and protection of the human, natural and built environment is a fundamental thing, the fact that we can pass these on to the successors, to future generations, tells us that this area should be given much more attention, if necessary, also during the budgetary negotiations. Let's see. We see that in Hungary about 20 percent of 50 billion tonnes of freight-km of traffic is involved in the railway. This could be increased, and the fact is that, in support of the study by the Air Task Force, it can be said that hundreds of billions could be saved, as the study shows that the negative externality in accidents, pollution and infrastructure can be estimated at some EUR 140 billion in the European Union due to unequal modes of rail and road freight transport. If the Hungarian government could reach it and, by the way, I indicate that we recommend this to you in the budget year after year, my honourable members of the Government, to pay more attention to intermodal, multimodal transport possibilities in Hungary, then only about EUR 3 billion of these negative externalities could be saved in domestic terms. 3 billion euros is a thousand billion forints! By the way, 40 percent of this is responsible for heavy goods vehicle traffic from the east to the west through us. 40 percent, so we're talking hundreds of billions of forints. If these heavy goods vehicles could be diverted to the railway with a proper transport policy... 2012 is a sad year in this respect, since the so-called RoLa, which transported trucks through Hungary, loaded on railway trains, frees the roads that would indeed be extremely important from the point of view of road safety. Think of the 16,000 accidents and about 600 deaths that occur annually. But to be a little selfish, I can say that from the point of view of the southern part of South Transdanubia, we should just think about the road 6, which is being trampled on by Romanian, Croatian and who knows where the trucks coming from would be very important to keep this issue in mind, because where else, let's say, the section between Barcs and Pécs, is extremely difficult for people who have a job there. I would ask my fellow pro-government Members to pay attention to these things and to listen to Jobbik's proposals. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-09-312	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition, applied for a post-municipal speech:. The metropolitan authorities are also trying to protect their citizens from the coronal virus instead of the government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-313	Mr President, Dear House, Today, the comments before the agenda and the contributions of several factions also sent a message to the public about or opinions on the control of the coronal virus. In fact, this is what I chose, although I should have thought that many people today would be talking about it. However, I feel that I must mention what Budapest, the capital of Hungary, is doing, the responsibility of its municipalities to participate in this defence and to help the country. I would like to advance the news in December that this virus has been identified in China, and we have received news of the victims in the first days of January. And then we could hear about quarantine and many other things that we had never known before, and that they had declared a state of emergency in three provinces. I've had the pleasure of seeing a video of the Chinese embassy's defenses organized by the Interparlamental Union. So we've known him for about four months now that the coronal virus has started and is infecting. Everyone knew that there was no barrier to this, and this could get here. We knew most about it when it appeared already in South Korea, Iran, and then in a country as close as Italy. I feel that we reacted very slowly, the government reacted very slowly, especially the government, who were responsible for this, especially professionally and in the structure. The municipality, the municipality of Budapest, also felt responsible in this regard, so already in early February, the municipalities met, above all the mayors, and discussed the tasks that appear as a task in the districts of Budapest. As far as outpatient care is concerned, this is the district's job. I think that the districts of Budapest were conscious sooner than perhaps they were conscious of the government, because the national operational body was formed much later, not to mention that it is not the wallet, but the Ministry of the Interior that holds it together, although it does not matter, because the focus is on measures. The municipalities were, of course, invited at this meeting by all 23 municipalities, less by the capital, as the capital does not have outpatient care tasks, and some pro-government mayors also appeared in substance to agree on the type of tasks involved. Although there was no instruction for this at the time, at least the promise that everything was in order, that we were prepared for everything, that we had all the protective equipment at our disposal, when it turned out that 1.2 million mouth masks were only enough for a few days, and none of this would reach the general practitioners, since health care, especially inpatient care, who will be involved in protection, would not even have access to them, let alone to the people of the street, citizens. I think it is a lesson that the municipality of the city is first conscious of what to do and feels a spectacular responsibility from which a measure is also presented, because the activities can be seen continuously in endless films on the district authorities' website, and much later the website of the Hungarian government, which can be viewed today, has been published. I think that the huge money that has been spent on different country impressions, I think that maybe we could have used it for other purposes, we could have turned it here. I would like to mention that I also thought of this as a tribute to the municipalities, because the responsibility of the municipalities in this city, where there is such a large population, has moved before our own government has. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-314	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, Member of the Democratic Coalition also applied for a post- Agenda address. The Hungarians in rural areas are not even protected by the government as much from the coronal virus as the one in Budapest. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-03-09-315	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Six months ago, we didn't even know it existed, maybe if some of the virologists knew it, it's determined our everyday lives now, and it's all around us. Even though all mass epidemics are a difficult situation for a community, for a country, but there is nothing to be said about the Orbán government, whether it has known for months what is going on in Asia, that it will inevitably happen here, and now we see that it has happened, since the beginning of January it has been 60 days, which would have been enough to prepare for, but it has been unprepared for the coronal virus epidemic. [[20.00]] Unprepared, because one of the most serious crimes of the Orbán regime's reign is the destruction of health care. That's why the surreal situation around us right now is that while we're doing really well in stadiums, basic hygiene tools are a missing item, we don't have enough hand sanitizer, but we don't have enough mouth masks in pharmacies. And what did Minister Kasler say? Mr. Kasler says there are 800 beds waiting for people who are sick from the corona virus all over the country. I like the sound of that sentence, but there's only one problem: that's not true. It's not true, because the Minister doesn't seem to be telling the truth even if he asks. Because at the moment, the Minister has been tested and found light. The minister seems not fit for his task, because what he says is nothing more than a dangerous toy with numbers; because what he is talking about is that 800 beds are a bed reserved for all infectious patients, and we know very well that the coronal virus epidemic will not eliminate hepatitis or epizootic meningitis, but also complicated children's diseases, chickenpox and diarrhea infections. Dear House, Seeing what the government has done to Hungarian health, it would be true, though we know that the 800 beds that Mr. Kásler visits are not enough doctors or nurses to provide the beds. Doctors and nurses have long fled, and they have long been healing in Sweden or England. It is also the government's fault that hundreds of GPs in the country are absent, that there are circles with a radius of 40 km, where there is absolutely no GP at all. And that is what makes this situation truly tragic. We know very well, because the news is that the plague is primarily a threat to the elderly, but I ask you if an elderly man living in a small village in Hajdú-Bihar, who can't even afford to prescribe his heart medicine, because there's no general doctor in his settlement, how do you think he might be able to detect that he's not a coronal virus. I have to say that the government should be ashamed of itself, while spending hundreds of millions of forints a year on the mania of their prime minister, football and luxury aircraft, until then Hungarian patients die from banal hospital infections. The protection of the health of Hungarians, especially the health of those living in the countryside, is of little importance to them, and we do not know so well that in recent years complete hospital departments have been closed in many rural hospitals. The Democratic Coalition, we see, has made countless suggestions over the last few days to save what can be saved. We demand, among other things, that hand sanitizers be put out in every hospital, every medical office, posters and signs of danger in community spaces, as well as the protection of general practitioners. Yeah, make sure there's enough real protection masks, and at every county hospital, you're gonna have to isolate a department for infectious patients. If it doesn't work any other way, instead of a multimillion-dollar premium paid by football players from abroad, get doctors and nurses to take professional care of those infected with the virus. Dear House, I looked for the passage in the Ten Commandments for a coronal virus epidemic, after all, according to Mr. Kásler, diseases avoid those who obey the Ten Commandments. It's possible that the government, the governing party, has NER-compatible ten orders, and I don't know, it's something to steal in, and it might protect you from the coronal virus. You may have enough to pray, but I'm afraid the people of this country will be short. Enough of the lying, enough of the fact that they can't even figure out where the patients we found were, who they met. With you, there's been no trust in the government for a long time. You, the government, are life-threatening, in fact, the government is the greatest threat, because of which millions of Hungarians are not safe. And yes, I am worried about the Hungarians, I am worried about rural Hungary and the people left behind. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-09-316	Honourable Congressman, I do not wish to respond, I do not wish to, but I reject the citation of the Ten Commandments in this form. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda: after the Slovak elections. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-09-317	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai of the Pulpit: Card!]]
u2020-03-09-318	Yes, Congressman, that's what we just indicated. Would you be so kind as to insert your card? [[Péter Ungár: It's getting late, please be patient. It's happening.]]
u2020-03-09-319	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I thought we should talk about the Slovak elections because there are hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people in Slovakia, who are very impressed by what is happening there. In addition, the development of a government in Slovakia and the fact that this government has a coalition partner, a Hungarian party or even a Hungarian party in the legislative process, is of primary national interest, this is of primary importance for the national interest, since Slovakia is one of Hungary's most important partners, whether in terms of trade or in terms of cooperation with V4. At the same time, it is also important that the Hungarian community, the Hungarian minority, should be represented in Parliament, because it can guarantee Community rights which, by the way, should be mandatory in all countries according to the European Union's core values. The sad thing happened, it is almost a national tragedy that the Hungarian community has no parliamentary representation in Slovakia. Obviously, I will not be able to tell from the Hungarian Parliament what specific reasons for this; it is likely that Hungarian parties competed with each other and did not help. The reason why this has happened is not really my responsibility to judge, but it is certain that this has been the case, that there is no representation of Hungarians in the European Parliament, not only but also in Slovak legislation, which is very serious in terms of Hungarian national interest. Although a Hungarian representative was included in the list of the new governing party, it is not the same as if there were a party for Hungarian representation. The fact that Most-Hidd was a party of Hungarian interest out of Parliament, in my opinion, it was not the government side that had yet to decide, but the Hungarians in the Highlands. So far, they have decided to represent the Hungarian community in the Highlands, and now they have decided that this will not be the case. This decision must be respected. The fact is that the Hungarian government's policy on the Highlands has been very double lately. On the one hand, they supported a government, the closest ally of the Hungarian government was a social democratic government that was involved in a lot of corruption and mafia issues. That's part of what caused them to lose the election. The allied party of this government, where they were mostly Hungarian politicians, was not supported. On the other hand, they supported a Hungarian party that considered the allied party mentioned by the government as a mob party. Clearly, it was not easy to find out in this political situation either for the Hungarians in the Highlands or for Hungary it was not easy to draw conclusions from this. It is also very important, and perhaps in every respect it says a lot about the Hungarian government's activities, that the Hungarian government talks a lot about national politics. Its positive steps were sensible, such as legal nation reunification, such as the economic recovery programme or the Bethlen Gábor Fund. However, we have to admit that the same national policy recipe does not work in every separated Hungarian area; it works in Vojvodina, where Hungarians are actually united, or what works in Transylvania, where Hungarians became united after the Fidesz helped create two parties that wanted to break it, but failed, this recipe does not work in the Highlands. This recipe does not work in a Hungarian community that is different to dual citizenship because of Slovak laws, and it does not work in a Hungarian community that is different to the Orbán government than they do in the South or Transylvania. [[20.10]] The fact is that the Beneš Decree is still in place in Slovakia is a tragedy in all respects that it is allowed in the European Union. At the same time, it is also a tragedy that dual citizenship is banned or that terrible things have been done about the language law. Let's not talk about the new anthem law. At the same time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly explained the historical climax of Hungarian-Slovak relations. At times like this, I always think about what Hungarian interests could have been if this had been at a historic low point. However, there is no confidence in the new government that it will take minority affairs seriously. Overall, I only wanted to say this because the Slovak election was over, it ended tragically in Hungarian terms, and so far it has not come before the House. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-09-320	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
