u2020-12-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 25th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, Once again, I must fulfill my sad duty to announce that three of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Mária Vojnik, former politician of the MSZP, one of the founding members of the party, obtained his mandate at the parliamentary elections in 1998, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County's 1st single mandate constituency, and until 2010, he was a Member of Parliament in the region for three cycles. Under his mandate, he was State Secretary for Health, Chairman of the National Assembly's Health Committee, Member of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority and Religion, and Labour. In addition to his national positions, he has actively worked as a representative of the local government of his health and his narrower country, Nyíregyháza. He died in 69 years of his life. Ildikó Pécsi is an actor and director who obtained his mandate in 1994 in the 22nd constituency of Budapest in the colours of the MSZP, and until 1998 he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament. Under his mandate, he supported the work of the Committee on Culture and the Press. Ildikó Pécsi's acting career began from the National Theatre of Pécs, and over the years he has been a member of several renowned theatre companies. He played in more than 100 Hungarian films, TV games and series. His artistic work was recognized in 1976 with the Mari Jászai Prize and in 2007 with the Kossuth Prize. In 2006 he received the award of the Middle Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, and in February this year he received the Lifetime Art Award of the Hungarian Film Academy. He passed away 80 years of his life. Ferenc Tóth was a member of the Parliament from 1998 to 2014, for four cycles. He obtained his mandate at all four parliamentary elections as Fidesz candidate in the 2nd single mandate constituency of Tolna county. During his term of office, he was a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Research for 13 years. Ferenc Tóth devoted a significant part of his life to public service. Fadd served the interests of the locals as mayor, then deputy mayor, Member of Parliament, government commissioner of Tolna County. In 2019 the Officer's Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit received a medal. He passed away when he was 70. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Ferenc Gyurcsány arrives in the room. Intruder from the benches of the governing parties: Whoops!]]
u2020-12-14-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because the European Council concluded a long six-month series of negotiations at the end of last week. We all know that Europe is in a difficult situation, that its share of the world's total total production is constantly falling, from twenty to a few percent to 16 to 17 percent. In the meantime, we have lost the United Kingdom, which was one of Europe's largest economies, and the European continent has also been hit by a corona virus, the health and economic consequences of which have to be dealt with. Half a year ago, Germany took over the Presidency in the European Union and decided to set up a recovery fund, which is hoped to modernise the European economy, so that it could stop the decline in its share of the world's total product; it could regain momentum lost by the loss of the United Kingdom; and it was also hoped that the Germans could manage the health and economic consequences of the virus with this recovery fund. It is also important to know, ladies and gentlemen, that the debt of the most difficult European economies is skyrocketed. There are countries in the European Union whose public debt is above 200 per cent, but there are 160 per cent, and the second largest economy in the Union is likely to exceed 100 per cent by the end of the year. Compared to this, Hungary is still under 80%. The German proposal was to take out a loan together and create a recovery fund called next generation. You should know that this fund is a loan for every penny you're gonna have to pay back. And if you can't pay, you'll have to take care of the others. We Hungarians were not happy at all because of this idea of the debt community. We understood the argument made by a group of countries called the bad guys, which said that every forint, every euro, has to be worked for sooner or later. However, because of the countries in distress, and they are many, so because of their solidarity with them, we have finally adopted this crisis management concept for the Germans. This is what the House has decided here at some point in the summer. And the Hungarian Parliament also laid down conditions for the adoption of the German proposal, as the resolution said: the Member States in the same situation must receive equal treatment; the citizens of the richer Member States should not receive more support than the citizens of the poorer countries. And this resolution, from which I am quoting now, says that making resources subject to political and ideological conditions under the rule of law is unacceptable. Accordingly, we discussed and reached a corresponding agreement in July at the European Council's summit of prime ministers. Between July and November, following the need for the European Parliament to establish a recovery fund, so between July and November, the Germans negotiated with the European Parliament and finally reached an agreement that would have made financial aid, the recovery fund, subject to clear political and ideological conditions. Meanwhile, these months were characterised by a rather harsh voice and unbiased attacks on Hungary. Some said that in some Member States there is a crisis of the rule of law, especially in Poland and Hungary. The European Commissioner for Gender said that this mechanism is the way to bring the Member States into line. One of the Vice-Presidents of Parliament, a former high-ranking German government official, said that Hungary and Poland should be starved. A high-ranking German state leader in office said that we will finally have a tool that will be very painful for Hungary and Poland. So, in this context, Hungary had to establish its position. We have not deviated from the direction imposed by Parliament, and so Hungary and Poland have announced that the agreement reached between the European Parliament and the German Presidency cannot be accepted; political issues must be rescinded from the issue of economic aid, and we will not allow it, and we want to negotiate until an acceptable solution is found for us. [[13.20]] After all, at the end of last week, common sense won, we defended Hungary's sovereignty and defended the Hungarians' money. Perhaps this is where Poland should be thanked for the friendship, for the endurance and for the camaraderie that we have fought with all along. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Overall, there is no exaggeration in saying that we have won, because we have carried it through that in times as difficult as the present epidemic, we must not impose economic aid on political conditions, simply because they hinder us from taking rapid action. He also won common sense because with this decision, Europe's unity was preserved. We defended the European Constitution, we didn't allow it to be bypassed. We have removed the danger of imposing budgetary pressure on Hungarians on immigrants. We have prevented a country that does not accept immigrants from being financially punished. And in the end, we protected the Hungarians' money, and what is due to Hungary will be given to them. The results achieved, Mr President, in this House, also have a higher horizon, namely to protect the unity of the European Union. The agreement is an encouraging outcome for Europe's future, because it has become evident as a result of long debates and difficult debates that the European Union can only function successfully as a community of nations. The real stake in the debate was who will lead Europe in the future: the governments elected by the citizens of the Member States and the Council of prime ministers, presidents of the state, or George Soros will succeed in forcing his own system of power to Europe, which we know very well from here, Hungary, a network consisting of NGOs spreading liberal post-national and post-Christian ideas, international mainstream media that deliver and strengthen their ideas, a significant group of MEPs, the Soros delegates who are admitted to the Commission. They wanted a new weapon for themselves, which can be used at any time against countries that don't like George Soros. However, at the last moment, Europe's governments woke up and we made a unanimous decision, saying that political issues cannot be linked to financial issues, that subjective criteria cannot be the basis for financial decisions and that the legal procedure laid down in the Treaty of the Union cannot be devised. I repeat, the European Union has maintained its unity and won. The agreement makes it clear that the European Union is an alliance between nations and states. Ladies and gentlemen, An important phase has been completed, but there are still issues of struggle left open. The Commission has just published a migration action plan, which describes the need to continue importing migrants and to give them housing, social assistance and voting rights. The Commissioner responsible for the case in Brussels speaks directly of 34 million migrants. Giving housing, aid and voting rights to 34 million migrants is the challenge, and if this is not enough, a gender action plan has been put on the table, the Commission's official action plan. I think it is right, this House, that Hungary also opposes the migration and gender action plan with all its might. I think that instead of supporting immigrants, we need to support children and strengthen the traditional family model instead of gender. Dear House, Europe has to face even a worldwide epidemic. The situation in Europe is critical everywhere. The coronal virus won't let you squeeze. The second wave has peaked all over Europe, and although Christmas is coming, European governments are pushing the holidays back almost without exception; for example, in Germany, there is a complete shutdown from Wednesday. Mr President, We're fighting the virus, too. We are currently fighting on two front lines: in hospitals, our doctors and nurses are fighting for our patients, in schools, and in kindergarten, the goal is to save parents' jobs. Over and over again, we must thank our doctors, nurses, teachers and everyone involved in this fight. I would like to inform this House that we have a difficult weeks ahead of us, but we are now at a distance from the vaccine that we can finally defeat the virus. We're gonna have to hold on until the vaccine arrives. I can report to this House that the first dose of vaccine can be expected in the last days of December. The operational tribe has prepared a vaccination plan for the country. The vaccine will be voluntary and free. First, we will inoculate health care workers, the first line of protection, and then chronic patients. We have launched the vaccineinfo.gov.hu page, where you can request a pre-order for vaccination. We also sent a letter to our retired countrymen with a registration form, please, who would like to receive vaccination, please register. Dear House, As far as the vaccine is concerned, protection against the epidemic and the vaccine are not a political issue for us, which is why we are discussing both in the West and in the East. I see the struggle of the big pharmaceutical company for the market and the money, but it is not in the interest of the pharmaceutical multi-companies, but the most important thing for us is that Hungarian people get a reliable vaccine as soon as possible. It's people's lives, and all life matters to us. We have already signed with all serious vaccine companies, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that there is a vaccine in Hungary in a fast and reliable way. Dear House, Until the vaccination can be started, the epidemiological rules must be maintained. These rules are strict, but I'm asking everyone to stick to them. Let's take care of each other and we'll make it again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-2	Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister's speech did not exceed 20 minutes, so the response is possible within a time frame of 5-5 minutes per faction. First I give the floor to the head of the MSZP faction, Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-12-14-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Human nature, human thinking, is such that we interpret certain events and certain events differently, I think that this is absolutely natural. In relation to the events of the past few weeks, not only in human thinking, but also politically, if we look at the events of the last week, we can interpret it quite differently from what we have just heard from you. [[13.30]] We heard your interpretation, we heard George Clooney's interpretation. [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Although you seem to be more interested in this than I am in it, but, Prime Minister, allow me to explain our interpretation here to you and to tell Parliament, to my fellow Members. We have interpreted the events of the past few weeks as being ashamed. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's for sure! Intercoms and applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]] We should be ashamed of you. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think the applause was not for athletic production on the gutters, we should be ashamed of you, because what has happened in the last few weeks means that they are talking about us in Europe and not in a positive approach. It begins with the gestapo by Tamás Deutsch in the European Parliament on one of the group leaders of the European Parliament. He went on to say that Szilárd Demeter had Nazid with a gas chamber, and now he's talking about the fact that he didn't really get a scratch on these things. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For sentences, you're in position right now. I'm glad to hear it. You've got to be ashamed that he's still there. [[György Balla: It's a bachelor!]] And we should also be ashamed of József Szájer, because that fake Christian policy, or, as the Prime Minister said, post-Christian policy slipped down the drainpipe of a Brussels gay bar with a backpack full of drugs on its back. Prime Minister, shame on you. And we should also be ashamed of the veto's bluff, because, in fact, the European public was all about the fact that you and your Polish colleagues were blackmailing the European Union, blackmailing the southern states, blackmailing European citizens, but you can see that, in fact, this blackmail has not been such a great result for you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] From the point of view of Europe, yes, because the fund that can now be used will also help millions of European citizens, including Hungarian citizens. And, Prime Minister, it is not true that this aid fund is just a loan, because the Hungarian EU representation itself describes that there is also a non-refundable grant, so it is not just a loan, but also a grant. And, Prime Minister, for a man who said he wouldn't compromise, he made a compromise, so I think that's not his greatest success. The second is that he quoted the proposal for a resolution, which was quickly adopted here in Parliament in the summer, but in this resolution it is also stated, for example, that the ongoing procedures relating to Article 7 must be closed; therefore, he has reached a compromise which differs from Parliament's decision, even though you have always said that this is what you will insist on. And, Prime Minister, you have well mentioned that in recent weeks there have been other events: over 7,000 Hungarian people died in a coronal virus, hospitals are full, families' livelihoods are at risk, 150,000 former workers are not getting any help or care. And, Prime Minister, you praise the teachers, we thank you for your work, but for example, this government refuses to give them a hundred percent pension. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] That's why they're afraid of testing, afraid of disease. But in the same way, half a million workers, many who are fighting the virus, because they do not want their income to be reduced by 40 percent, and it also plays a role in the spread of the virus; they do not give the demand that they have made, and we are here in Parliament. Prime Minister! Don't fight Brussels for once. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But against the virus, that's what we can support. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-4	Ladies and gentlemen, In particular... [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'll wait until Congressman Kósa finishes his private meeting with Congressman Hende to quote the classics. So, in particular, with regard to the advent, I would ask the pro-government ladies and gentlemen not to lose their patience. There is a long line of comments before the agenda, and I would like to see that the dignity of this House is preserved at the end of this, at least what is up to you, I ask you to do everything you can to achieve this. Now it's time for the leader of the Dialogue, Szabó Timea.
u2020-12-14-5	Prime Minister, in this last parliamentary week, we were a little hoping that you would hold a more decent year-end review, but this has not succeeded; let us say, we are not so surprised, because there is no way to report much pride here in the last year. Let me say a little here about the EU's agreements for the past few weeks for the first time. For the sake of fact, let's just say that the rule of law mechanism you have been fighting with your hands and feet has not softened a bit, so that is exactly what the Council has now accepted, which you have protested to stop you from stealing. The fact that you are now turning to the Court of Justice has, in fact, been part of all the mechanisms of the European Union, the European Union that you are constantly dictatorizing and receiving dictators, compared to this, you are the one who is now turning to the Court of Justice. So the Union doesn't work so dictatorially, does it, Prime Minister? Let me just say one thing about this, not two. The post-Christianity, you mean the slide down the gutters naked, post-drug Christian-conservative, or something else? If you could explain that, we'd appreciate it. With regard to the proposed gender, which is now on the EU's table, let me add that it contains exactly as much money for women as for men. Katalin Novák has just brought to the attention of Hungarians today that Hungarian women should not be insatiable, they should not want to compete with men in everything, they should be satisfied that if they earn less than men, the Union is fighting this right now, and that is exactly what we want women to earn as much as we do. But let's get to the point of what's been going on all year in your administration, let's take a look at the epidemic, because it looks like we're watching some other movies, Prime Minister. [[A statement from the ruling parties, that's for sure.]] On September 12th, you said, "What you need to pay attention to is not the number of diseases, but the number of deaths." The success of defense can now be measured in the number of lives saved. That's what he said. In comparison, according to yesterday's data from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, Hungary has been the third worst death in the European Union in the last two weeks, only Bulgaria and Slovenia are ahead of us, the third most died in Hungary in the last two weeks. Let me also say that since mid-September and November 2,500 people have died in Hungary in total, while 2,300 in the last two weeks. In two and a half months, as many people have died as in the last two weeks. Prime Minister, according to your own definition, as you said in M1, you are a failure as big as Lachaza here. Why don't you just admit that in the beginning of November it was still more important for you to have 20,000 football matches [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Like making real restrictions; they were taken late and few. And let's look at the economy, because you think we're doing much better than the European Union. Let me tell you a number. In the third quarter of this year, GDP fell by 4.7 percent in Hungary, while the EU average was 4.3 percent, so the very evil Western European country pile you are talking about did better economically than Hungary, despite having taken more stringent measures than you. Unfortunately, there are worse data that people feel better about their skin, and this is unemployment. Now, a week ago, KSH corrected unemployment figures: in June, not 250,000 people declared themselves unemployed, but 400 thousand people declared themselves unemployed, in the summer, after the first wave, this figure only deteriorated. Prime Minister, what did you do? He was handing out the money to his own friends. Zsolt Semjén's sickly hunting exhibition receives HUF 60 billion, while 400,000 people lost their jobs and they get as much as Zsolt Semjén and Lőrinc Mészáros alone. Do you think it's fair disease management, decent help? Well, where do you live, Prime Minister? ! [[13.40]] You're full of shit! They failed in an epidemic, failed in the economy, and quite simply what they did morally with Szilárd Demeter, József Szájer, is shame! [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Thank you.
u2020-12-14-6	I give the floor to Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction.
u2020-12-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to begin by thanking everyone who works in these difficult times and in difficult circumstances to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. I believe that there have been scandals here in recent times that have shown your true face, the principles that you are actually pursuing. But the epidemiological situation is very serious now, so I think that it would not be worthy of a debate before the agenda, so, if you will allow me, I am not going to refer this question to the Parliament. Prime Minister! Veto in European Union politics, we believe that it can be a legitimate instrument. In many cases, it can and must be done that, if national interests are to be protected, if the rights of Hungarian workers are to be protected, if the rights of Hungarian natural resources and treasures are to be protected or, let us say, the rights of Hungarians beyond the borders, then the veto in European Union politics can be an instrument and must be used. But what is seriously condemned in your policy is that you have now used this veto because of the criteria of the rule of law, and because of these criteria, you have risked the money that Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy desperately need. Prime Minister! We are now experiencing not only the last ten years, but the worst crisis in recent decades, hundreds of thousands of families in critical, terribly difficult situations. I think that as Members of Parliament, we all receive shocking requests every day from Hungarian families in a tragic situation. In this situation, you risked these funds for Hungarian people to continue to steal European Union money in Hungary, so that you can continue to fatten your so-called national oligarchs, who are fidesz oligarchs, to fill propaganda with public funds in Hungary. Prime Minister! It has not been in the debates over the last few weeks, in recent months, that any use of this instrument should be made of the government's migration policy. We see the debates on migration, but these are clearly the criteria of the rule of law, because of these issues, so that they can maintain this operation, so they risked the Hungarian people's money. You said, Prime Minister, that we defended Hungary's sovereignty and protected the Hungarians' money. That's not how we see it, Prime Minister. What we see, we agree perfectly, is that there are very serious challenges to the sovereignty of Hungary and the Hungarian nation, in this connection the Hungarian Prime Minister has a job to do, and the government and all of us have a job to do. But, Prime Minister, this must not be enough for you to send messages to George Soros on Facebook or in different media. There are far more serious problems than that, and these problems should be dealt with, they should be faced with, and these are not the kind of messages that should be diverted to the public. Obviously it's much easier to send a message to George Soros on Facebook than, say, confronting Russian great authority interests or even the economic interests of Rosatom. It is much easier to fight György Soros and various mirages, like, say, confronting the profit hunger of German giant companies and protecting Hungarian workers from them. It is much easier once again to send messages with György Soros and continue a kind of war with him than to confront China's great power interests and China's brutal economic pressure, we can say, with its re-energising efforts. Prime Minister, these are the problems we have to face. What I'm asking you to do is not fight George Soros for some kind of interesting communication campaign. You have also mentioned the issue of migration, Prime Minister. Indeed, it is quite clear that, at this age, migration is a matter of fate for all Europe and fate for Hungary, so that this issue can be dealt with effectively. We agree perfectly that the EU's external borders must be protected, illegal migration must be stopped, we also agree perfectly that immigration policy must be kept in national competence. But, Prime Minister, here we can talk about meaningful action in addition to campaigning if you are pursuing a policy and the government is pursuing a policy to identify and address the causes of migratory pressure. So the reasons for migration should be addressed and it is not enough to conduct a political campaign on this issue. Prime Minister! You know very well that one of the main causes of migration is the process of climate change and environmental destruction. For someone who denied this issue not so long ago, even a few years ago, the real weight of this problem, you do not pursue a policy at the level of the European Union that you would take action against these effects and take action on merit. But their policies are also preventing the European Union from taking action on its merits, being able to act effectively against climate change impacts, and thus reducing migratory pressures. I am asking you, Prime Minister, that is clear, and I believe that there is no debate in this Parliament that this is a matter of fate, but at last do not prevent this problem from being solved, and do not see the possibility of a communication campaign in this. Take action so that the migration crisis can be eliminated in this way and a development policy can be implemented so that everyone can ultimately thrive in their homeland. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-8	It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-9	Thank you for the floor. So, if we simplify the matters of the country to the point where the dog sits and the dog stands, and we talk to our constituents at this level, then there are two options: either we ourselves do not understand intellectually what is going on around us and what we are a part of, or we may understand, but we despise our constituents against all claims. From the Prime Minister's text here, I can't decide whether he himself doesn't understand what's going on around him or doesn't want his constituents to understand what's happening around him. Ladies and gentlemen. What happened last week is not what you're talking about. It's not! It is not about the historical essence of the matter that the Prime Minister and government communication share with us. I do not wish to give you a history lesson just because I am sure that many of you will know the things referred to significantly better than I do. But let me tell you something. There's a founding father named Alexander Hamilton, but he's not actually a founding father, he's the first finance minister of the United States, there's the XVIII. At the end of the century. It won't be as exciting as arguing with George Soros, no doubt what I'm saying, I'll just be right. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The fact that George Washington is setting up a financial system for the future United States of America in the first government of Washington, and the first countries to take out loans together [[His mic's falling off.]] then you're going on that trip with a bond issue... [[There's a grumble and a scoop from the ruling parties.]] Like this! Then the European United States will take the historic path Which, in fact, now makes him perhaps the most influential country in the world. Indeed, our debate with the Prime Minister is partly about the future of Europe, that we want a strong federal Europe, and how this idea fits in, this concept by thinking that, by the way, a Europe of nations will remain a federal Europe. Who's right about that? What happened last week was that, for the first time in the history of the European Union, the Member States that made up the European Union contributed to the Union being a joint borrower, a common financial system was set up, and therefore a situation has been created in the debate that we are having here, that we call it European united states or a weaker Europe, unfortunately, the Prime Minister might have thought, and I say that thanks to God, he has taken us in the direction we would like. By the way, what happened was a significant and substantial defeat of the Prime Minister and his policy last week. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It's not about that! Ladies and gentlemen. It's not worth always giggling, because stupidity won't be covered by any pompous grin on your side. Here in the historic main debate, the Prime Minister had to allow it. He couldn't help it, because the big debate, it's not the veto, come on, please. Plus, it's what's left of it. The big debate is not the seven-year budget, because it still happened. The big debate is that the European recovery fund will be financed in this way. Those in Europe have won with this in a tiny step, who say, please, that this will become a more common world. That they'll call it the United States of Europe? You've got to be kidding me. Something like that. An alliance of European nations? [[His mic's falling off. There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You've got to be kidding me. But one thing is clear: in contrast to all your intentions, in these months, Europe will show its own social face, there will be some common rules on the minimum European wage, Europe will show its historical perspective that it will be able to create a new federal country. [[His mic's falling off again. Applause and applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[13.50]] And please, all of this will take us to the point where, thanks to God, the historic achievement that I think we have achieved over the past few years, this historic achievement will survive against your will. [[His mic's falling off. Intercoms from Fidesz: The microphone can't take it anymore! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And it gets stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2020-12-14-10	Next is Peter James. I'm asking you to be serious, seriously, with all due respect.
u2020-12-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! It was a very nice speech, and the potatoes are due; it's a shame that the Lipot was closed. [[A statement from the Fidesz: It's a pity indeed!]] But before you get too excited about the victory march here, let's quickly clarify what happened in Brussels, because all that happened was that you wanted to mess with the European Union, with your veto device, you tried to live up to the ends, see if there would be no rule of law, and then the Szájer scandal came, and suddenly you rang in a week. [[Voices from the ranks of Fidesz, including, "Woe!]] That's what happened, Prime Minister. There's no victory round, there's no triumph. You made a line, you made a little noise, and then you got a slap, and you shut up because you're such a man. You're a coward in Brussels, and you're a coward at home. He fought this battle in Brussels exactly as he fought a war against the virus at home. What did you say earlier? We're armed to the teeth, and we're waiting for the plague, and the government has an exact plan of action on how to proceed, and whoever catches the disease will be cured. Prime Minister, to this day, more than 7,000 dead people remind us of your big speech and nothing to do. Seven thousand dead, that's a shame! You said we'd be armed to the teeth waiting for this plague. Where are the weapons, Prime Minister? Where? ! This country needs to work together. You give this country one thing: hatred. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] Collaboration begins there, Prime Minister, with the government accepting 80 percent of the labour costs of the workers in distress. The beginning of the collaboration is to increase the time and amount of the unemployment benefit. Collaboration begins by making 100 percent of personal income tax reclaimable for employees who earn below average income tax, and if someone loses their job over 60 years of age, they will be retiring nicely. Let's just say, Prime Minister, you threw in the towel on both health and economic lines. Hundreds of thousands of people are losing their livelihood here. Wages don't go up, but they're falling. Many of our countrymen are forced to work part-time, but obviously they do not appear in the statistics because they would make the average worse. And so you are proud to say to the camera that the average salary in Hungary is more than 400 thousand forints. Prime Minister, where do you live? What kind of 400,000 forints are you talking about? ! In this country, wages are not rising, but prices are rising. In one year, a common pepper potato has become 30 percent more expensive, sale potatoes, not $4 million in Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] 30% increase in one year, while pensions are planned to be increased by 1.2 percent in total. Aren't you ashamed, Prime Minister? ! No, he's not ashamed. It's perfectly natural for you. He doesn't give a shit. This country is the 21st. You're facing the worst crisis of the century, and instead of dealing with this crisis, you're punishing me. He's throwing millions of punishments here in Parliament for someone who dares to tell the truth. No steering. Crisis management? No. Silence, punishment, threats, that's what it is. Because you, Prime Minister, are building your power on this precisely: poverty and fear. It's just, you know, if someone builds their power on poverty and fear, they'll keep the nation in poverty and fear, instead of freedom and prosperity. Prime Minister, poverty and fear weaken the nation, and freedom and prosperity strengthen it. Only a strong nation can overcome this crisis with a government that does not represent itself, but the nation as a whole. The tragedy of the nation is that we do not have such a government. You represent yourself, but we represent the nation as a whole. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Look, the opposition is extremely diverse. It's very diverse. We've got right-wingers, left-wingers, liberals, conservatives. [[Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz, including Anti-Semites!]] And yet, Prime Minister, we are able to work together [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And yet we are able to reach a hundred and a hundred compromises. Do you know why? Because the nation is more important to us than ourselves, and that is what you will never understand, and that is why you will never be able to lead this country out of the crisis. Finally, allow me one more thought: whoever has the power has the responsibility. Prime Minister, you have all the power and all the responsibilities, so as you once said to the nation, good wind, good luck. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2020-12-14-12	I now give the floor to the leader of the KDNP faction, Member István Simicskó.
u2020-12-14-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Thank you very much for informing the Prime Minister. The KDNP faction considers the progress made by Hungary at the Council of Europe last week to be a major success. The Prime Minister gave a briefing to prevent this from happening precisely last week at the Delegation Room meeting of the European Union Consultation Panel. I must say that you were there, the left-wing faction leaders, you could listen to the Prime Minister's position. He prepared an honest, clear and clear strategy for last week's Council meeting and presented the agenda points and the Hungarian position. The Hungarian position is clear, and it is clear now: not to allow any blackmail, wherever it may come from. This is particularly important at a difficult time, because we can witness a pandemic and we can also see an economic crisis. When it comes to people's lives, you can't afford political or ideological blackmail. We cannot and must not allow such debates to take place, but we must help people, we must help each other, and we must really work together to save as many people as possible, and we must not make Hungary's European Union resources subject to created conditions. There is an old saying, honourable fellow Members, and this is saying that no one returns from a journey as he has left. If the Prime Minister had gone to Brussels the way he wanted, then Hungarian interests would not have existed, Hungary would clearly have been a loser. My fellow Members, but thanks to God, Prime Minister, he has defended the money due to Hungary and has fought out the resources needed, and he has supported this Hungarian position with real success, in a way that all 27 Member States have been able to take this decision. Dear Parliament, So Hungary and Hungary's prime ministers returned from this journey in strength. That's how we see it. So the Hungarian position won. Indeed, Hungarian-Polish friendship has won, the cooperation of the Visegrád Four has won, and I must say that the success of the European Union is also a success, because it has really made a decision in accordance with Hungarian interests. For me, there is an important lesson to be learned from this meeting outside, and this is also the past period. I have a creed about people who usually get results who believe. Those who achieve even better, more performance, and even better results are those who are patient, but those who always achieve success and victory are those who never give up. At last week's meeting in the Delegation Hall, I saw that the Prime Minister was determined to start this battle, and he could indeed return home with victory and defend Hungarian interests. It is obvious in the European Union that the migration action plan, which represents a permanent threat for all of us, for all of the EU's communities or countries concerned with the resettlement of 34 million migrants and their right to vote. We will fight this, we will have to fight it, and we will support the government in this endeavour. Success and victory, because they cannot link the resources and guarantees of Hungary to political and ideological issues in Brussels. So a Hungarian victory was born in Brussels, while the Hungarian government and Hungarian health care are doing everything in their power to protect the lives of Hungarian people. According to our knowledge, 17 million vaccines have already been committed by the Hungarian government. This shows that it does take the necessary steps and decisions in time to protect the health of Hungarian people. As soon as the vaccine arrives, the vaccination plan is completed, tested and effective vaccine is needed, and obviously organised by the state, free of charge and voluntarily. These are all important principles, and this is the only way to do it properly. The registration's on the way. A lot of people have signed up, more than 100,000 people have registered for vaccination. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have every chance of winning another important victory if we continue to do so: defeating the Crown Virus and protecting the Hungarian people, and then Hungary will once again be a winner. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2020-12-14-14	It is now up to the head of the Fidesz Group, Mr Máté Kocsis. I give you the floor.
u2020-12-14-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'm telling you, there is no other country in Europe with a government that has such an opposition; to say it in a pestely way, there are no guys like you. [[It's a rare blur.]] I'm serious. They are attacking the sovereignty of our country, and they are cheering for this to happen; they want to take the country's money, and you are rooting for it, and you are writing articles, and you are discussing it. A pandemic rages, rages... But don't shake your head, Mr. Varju. The pandemic is raging, and you are cheering for this to be as damaging as possible in Hungary. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] They fake videos, fake statistics, deceive voters, now they're playing the vaccine tricks, they're questioning the effects, they're deceiving people, so there's no such people as yourselves! I'm serious. The fact is that my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, said that he was ashamed. I would like to make a comment on this. The problem is that you go abroad to be ashamed, even though you could do it at home sometimes, Congressman. [[Delightful, a big round of applause from the pro-government benches.]] I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why, Congressman. You forgot to be ashamed of your cocaine partner, you forgot to be ashamed of your cigarette-smuggling partner, your electricity-stealing associates, and now you've forgotten to be ashamed of your joint candidate, your celebrated star mayor, Krisztina Baranyi's elevated prize-winning Jewishism. That's why they forgot to be ashamed. But they forgot to be ashamed of Lajos Korózs or of her ratting. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't miss the Crew!]] The thing is, Congressman, when you're ashamed, you need to turn around and think about whether you're credible, not two-faced, what you're doing. What hurts you is that we stood up for Hungarian national interests, let us say it! It hurts. Their international considerations, their political interests, their political dreams and desires, whether true or untrue, have all led them in the direction of turning again against their own nation. In the last six months, even by their own standards, they have done so many times, and they have faced Hungary quite often. What I don't understand is, if we failed last week, then why are you guys so nervous? They're supposed to be calm and cheerful, because we failed, right? You guys are nervous after all. That means that maybe we didn't fail, and maybe it also means that they're not telling the truth again. They're looking with a magnifying glass for statistics that can be turned around, and yet again, they're rooting for you to get worse statistics on the epidemic. You guys don't give up your death campaign, you're flying black flags in the middle of a pandemic, instead of helping us while you're cheating people the most. Ladies and gentlemen, They made a fool of themselves according to their own intelligence. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I don't want to point out last week, but read the writings of people who are important to you, and they create their political-ideological foundation sometimes or more often. Congressman James, shutting down the Lipot will prove it in your presence. But in addition to the Prime Minister's threats and insults, do you know who promised to kill us, who was the last person to threaten us? Do you remember who promised your political opponents a runaway, or what political side would hang the right-wingers? [[Laszlo Varju: Don't lie! Gergely Harvesto: Don't lie to me!]] Nod your head, Congresswoman Vadai. Your momentary ally would hang the right-wing politicians. That threat, Congressman, you forget to be ashamed of that. The truth is, all the compromises you talked about, the compromise you made on the left led you to the point that you didn't give up on Jewishism, but the left parties did. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Szilárd Demeter!]] They forgot to be ashamed of that, too. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] On behalf of Hungarian interests, you cannot be counted on, either in the case of the epidemic or in the case of an EU debate or anything else. Let me have a few more thoughts for closing. That one thing has been proven, we already knew, but now everyone can see that we are the only political community in Hungary, which cannot be placed under any financial or other pressure from abroad. [[Defiance, uproar from the opposition's benches.]] We're the only ones. You would have sold your country a long time ago. You would have sold it in a debate like this. Just think of anyone who watches this parliamentary debate, what the outcome of European negotiations would have been during a DK, Jobbik, Dialogue or MSZP government. Congratulations, Prime Minister. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-16	With all due respect, we're done with our response. Welcome to the Chamber after an hour, Agnes Vadai, and I'll ask you if you've... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Good afternoon, Mr. President. Are you okay?]] Hello, I'm kissing your hand. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Are you okay?]] Yes, thank you very much for asking. I was going to suggest that if we've been forced to live without your voice [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You had to, didn't you?]] then, despite the fact that it worked, let us continue to experience this experience. [[Defiance.]] So please be quiet. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Did you have to? Did you miss me? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] It is an exaggeration to come into the Chamber after an hour and immediately start shouting, even though you have no idea what has been going on in the Chamber for the last hour. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Yes, unfortunately, there is!]] You have no idea! [[Gergely Harvesto: There's a function for this, that little box, Mr. President.]] Congresswoman, believe me, it's far worse for a woman to be rude than a man. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Careful, Mr. President.]] If you can still understand that distinction. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Prime Minister has the right to rejoinder.
u2020-12-14-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Many important issues have also been raised. I would like to thank the Members who raised these points. Before I go to the more important questions, I would like to close this little childlike question. I think it is important what you think happened in Brussels, and I am glad that I could listen to this, but I think it is even more important what your owner thinks about this. George Soros spoke, and I report that the master is disappointed. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] It speaks for itself, and it looks like it's gonna be a skinny dinner. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] As to the more serious issues, the Prime Minister quoted a historical analogy, and rightly so, he referred to a former US finance minister. This is a well-known thing, and when the Council of European Prime Ministers discussed the issue of this loan... They're sitting side by side with the President of the Socialist Party, so you could really explain to him that this is all a loan, because he didn't know exactly how to identify it. [[Defiance.]] So it's all a loan. When this issue was discussed by the Council of Prime Ministers, he asked the question that the literature calls the Hamilton moment. Indeed, when it happened in the United States that the debts of the Member States were socialised, and the debt community that was established, it finally established the financial foundations of the United States of America. This issue was addressed by the European Council. The French and Germans are not worth listing all the prime ministers here, they both said that this is not the plan, so there is no Hamilton moment that I understand, because I note in parentheses that Hamilton later lost his life in a gunfight, closed by parentheses; old legendary times. But for the time being, Europe's leaders believe that this moment has not come, and that is why they stress in each document that this current crisis fund is one-off and cannot be repeated. However, this is not an answer to the Prime Minister's suggestion, because if something is not admitted, it can still happen and there is no need to assume that there is bad intentions, it may not be a Hamilton moment, but Europe could be dragged into such a situation. Because once he has created the first such package, it turns out that it will be necessary for the next one, it will create the second one, and from there it will be just one step to start talking about the fact that we will not only stand together for the sovereign debt arising from the credit that has just been taken up, but also for the former ones and all of them. That's the danger I think there is. The Prime Minister sees this not as a threat, but as a great opportunity and a historic moment, and I regard it as a danger. This is not for nothing, because we look at the world from a completely different perspective. We, who are sitting here, at least personally, believe that a drift into European united states, or even a conscious choice thereof, would mean abandoning a thousand-year-old Hungarian historical tradition and abandoning our country. [[14.10]] Therefore, we do not want to be in a situation like this, we do not want to drift into it, which is why, among other things, we were not happy when we found out that a debt community would be created as a result of crisis management. So the situation is so, there are clear opportunities for the citizens of Hungary. There are two political strategies and visions. There is a left-wing one, which is part of Jobbik and part of the LMP, and everyone who wants to give up the thousand-year-old Hungarian statehood, and they want to go into a European united states, comforting themselves, as I think the Prime Minister says in a self-confident way, that the states will still survive, of course, but if there is common money, if there is a common budget, and we are the Greeks and the Italians and God knows who everyone is in debt, then why is there national sovereignty? So it's an illusion. So there are, yes, fellow Members, some of you who are worthy of a better fate, who will be very happy to go up to an election list and put together joint candidates with a political party that has never made a secret of it not only in the last thirty years, closed by parentheses, but that is not here now, has never made a secret of its policy, not about preserving the independence and sovereignty of the Hungarian nation, but about something else that I do not want to categorize, because I would prefer to take an intellectual approach rather than a slap. So I would like to make it clear that this is two different futures, two different options, two different lives for our children and our grandchildren, and we, who are sitting here, want our children and grandchildren to be Hungarians, not a Hungarian ethnic group within the European Union, but proud heirs of the independent, sovereign Hungarian state. That's what we want. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think the debate is serious, the debate is worth continuing. I think that the interpretation of the decision of the European Union in this context is also justified, and it is good for the Hungarian Parliament to continue to interpret what will happen in European finances over the coming years in this dimension as outlined by the opposition. I could stop, but there were a few more specific things here, which, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to get out of here. It's not just good taste that's being used as a political tool by... dialogue? [[Defiance.]] The dialogue is the question of how many people will die now. I think this is not only a violation of good taste, but an immense underestimation of the work of doctors and nurses who work every day to save people's lives. Do you think people die because they don't get health care? Do you think people die because doctors don't want to save them? [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Do you think people die because the women in charge, nurses, don't want to care about them? [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Do you think people die because the women in charge, nurses, don't want to care about them? (Intercoms from the opposition. ) It's not that! Who do you vomit to, that people die, people suffering from incurable diseases, and that the virus will take them away? I understand that it's me, but believe me, the virus isn't me. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) This is a misunderstanding for you. This is a misunderstanding for you. I believe that you should help not the government, but the sick people who are in the hospital, that they are cheering for not being able to do more, at least they are not making camuvides and cheering for doctors and nurses to save these people. (Szabó Timea interrupts.) People don't die because of the ruling party, but because there's a pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, and here's the question of who stands where, who stands on the side of the sick, the infected and the people fighting for their lives, and who stands up against them, hoping the statistics will deteriorate. That's what this is about. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] It's not just tasteless, it's immeasurably amoral. [[Peter James: You spent 140 billion on sports, 50 billion on hospitals! What's this? What's this? What's important to who?! Intercoms from the ruling parties, among other things: Shut the fuck up!]]
u2020-12-14-18	Prime Minister, in order to avoid misunderstandings, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-19	To tell you this in the language of numbers: Hungary has spent HUF 1014 billion on epidemiological control since the outbreak in less than a year. [[Dr. Pál Völner to the opposition benches: Listen!]] We spent more than a thousand billion forints and 2991 billion forints on job protection. And I also have to say that the result of this is that no more people have died, no more have died, and the result of all this money spent is that if they put their emotions aside and watch the reality, they will see that 4 million 458 thousand people are working in Hungary at the moment. 4 million 458 thousand people, that's 64,000 less than what was a year ago. So we have 64 thousand people who have lost their jobs, and I would like to make it clear to you that we are launching economic programs that will return all 64 thousand people to their jobs after the opening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And as many jobs as the virus has eliminated, we're all going to create it. For the 4 million 458 thousand working people, I would just like to say to the betterman that this is exactly 800,000 more than when your newfound allies governed Hungary. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] They are asking for a list whose leader and government managed to operate 800 thousand fewer jobs in Hungary ten years ago than we, who are being attacked by you in this matter. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] I don't think that's fair what you're saying in this regard. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] In the veto case, I would like to say something to my fellow Member in the LMP, I think, in part, in agreement, because the veto has repeatedly been said in a negative context and was used as a synonym for blackmail. Veto is a national law guaranteed by the European Treaty; it applies to all countries on issues of vital national interest under the Treaty. So if a nation exercises its right to veto, then it does not threaten, blackmail, force, exercise its constitutional right guaranteed by the Treaty. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] It is a pity that you have joined your understanding of this and your pressure-bearing western friends. As far as the issue of average wages is concerned, because this is also included: I would also like to say to my colleagues, who are likely to be narrowly informed, that the statistics on average wages in Hungary are not published by us Hungarians, nor even by KSH. The data you use and you make it look untrue is all Eurostat data, without exception. So when we talk about the fact that, when you and your future partners governed Hungary, the average wage in Hungary was HUF 200,000, and now according to Eurostat, it is 383,000; for this reality, I do not want to be the one to hold the record of Eurostat. I would like to repeat it, because I see it hurting you, so I would like to reiterate that the government officials with whom you will now be on the same list, dear Jobbikos, in Hungary, have made such an economic policy that in 2010 the average wage was HUF 200,000, according to Europeans, and now the same figure, according to Europeans, is HUF 383,000. Congratulations on your good choice. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There was also a comment with a wider outlook, perhaps the president of the LMP also said that action should be taken against China. Why is that? Why is that? I would like to inform you that this happened in 2017, and that has been the case since Germany became China's number one economic partner. Why should we stand up to them? Should Hungary act against Germany's number one economic partner? What kind of thought is that? I'm sorry. What I can tell you is that I've lived 26 years of my life under the circumstances of a Cold War when the two great powers of the world were facing, and everyone around them had to settle in some way. Believe me, this has not been good for the world, for Europe or for Hungary. Why do they want to reinvent the Cold War? I see there are people in America who want to reinvent the Cold War, but why would it be good for us Hungarians to have the same logic in the world again instead of saying that the new era that lies ahead is the era of cooperation, and in which it might be possible, we should cooperate with each other? Why should Hungary opt out of the economic relations system with China, as you suggest, unless we should do so in the interests of the Americans, instead of following the German line, to which they are the largest economic partner there? Why aren't we following this line? [[14.20]] I would like to make it clear that the ideological approach in foreign trade and economic policy is a wrong approach, and at the end it will lead us to oppositions that will ultimately be against Hungarian national interests... is not good for us. So I ask you not to encourage us to face China by the Hungarian government. This may be an American interest, but it cannot be a Hungarian interest or a European interest. If you are watching, you can see that this is exactly what European leaders are trying to avoid, in some way, getting caught up in another Cold War situation. That is why Europeans do not stand here or there, but also create an independent economic policy for the Americans and for the Chinese. Why don't we try to understand this European line and find Hungary's place in it? [[Gergely Arató: Is the European line suddenly good?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, We also talked about pensioners. There, I would just like to reiterate that the Hungarian government is committed: epidemic and economic consequences here or there, from January we will start rebuilding the 13th month pension, which will also be a beautiful symbol of our future, and it shows that, after the economic crisis, Hungary will be on a rising path that will allow everything, everything that socialist governments have taken away from people, to be returned to the civilian government. [[A long applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-20	With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber to do so quickly and quietly. [[Several Members leave the Chamber. It's a short break.]] A series of contributions before the announced agenda will be opened. I give the floor to Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group.
u2020-12-14-21	Ladies and gentlemen, As vulgar, subpar and primitive a rejoinder as we have just heard from Viktor Orbán, it has certainly not been said here in the walls of Parliament in the last ten years. Instead of giving an account to the Prime Minister of why the death rate is so high, I will say it once again in his own definition, Viktor Orbán said in September that we should not be paying attention to the number of diseases, but the number of deaths. Compared to this, because you deny it, you lie about it, we tell you this, and then Viktor Orbán's answer is: "Gazdizik"? ! Such an infinitely vulgar and humiliating contribution to Hungarian people has not yet been made here. Shame on you, Viktor Orbán. And how dare the Prime Minister say that we support the virus and death? ! We're not rooting for you. You're rooting for me. The third highest in Europe is the death per 100,000 inhabitants because you have done nothing. Don't mix the season with the guy. By telling the truth, we are not rooting for the plague, but cheering for the Hungarian people. The reason we're telling you is that we're trying to get you guys to take action on time over and over again, so that the numbers aren't so disastrous. We know you're ashamed of these numbers, and we know you failed the plague treatment, but don't get blamed on us. Well, how dare they? ! And you have the nerve to tell the Prime Minister that we're criticizing the work of doctors and nurses. No, we insult and criticize your dishonest, worthless, thiefly work. I'll tell you what a big stinking plague treatment is. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] What Viktor Orbán has just said is HUF 1000 billion! He's spent 140 billion forints on sports in the last six months, out of this thousand. 103 billion for churches, 186 billion forints for Lőrinc Mészáros, 16 billion for the Prime Minister's Office, 5 billion forints for Ráhel Orbán's company for tourism advice. I'll tell you again, you're going to organize a hunting exhibition for Zsolt Semjén for 60 billion forints. Well, I'm telling you, all the good people here are getting sick and tired of what you're saying. There are 400,000 unemployed in this country, and they're even trying to lie to us about the statistics of the KSH. They are ashamed of this precisely because they know that they have failed economically, failed disease management, and have failed morally. There's no way they can hold this fucking coalition together that you've been building here for the last ten years. Szilárd Demeter apologizes for his Nazi writing by saying that I was wrong to call George Soros liberal Gestapo because George Soros is not liberal? Well, you should be ashamed of your Nazi writings. You will be expelled from the People's Party. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Krisztina Baranyi?]] And they deserve it, because now everyone's sick of what you're doing. They lie about all the statistics, they lie to the Hungarian people, they're fake Christians, they're fake conservative policies. József Szájer is protected by how great a fellow warrior they were and pretended not to know that in the last 30 years, József Szájer has lived a way of life that goes against the Szájer Basic Law? That it has nothing to do with that evasive policy of their own and their politicians' way of life, like what they preach! ? That Zsolt Borkai is a prostitute on a luxury yacht we paid for, and then he gets pat on the shoulder? ! That Szilárd Demeter is writing a Nazi article? ! That Gábor Kaleta will be punished for the pornographic image of 19 thousand children for a total of HUF 500,000, and then a kilo of potatoes and four million forints will be imposed? ! This is your fake Christian, pseudo-conservative government. Shame on you, all of you, and shame on you. Unfortunately, you're rooting for the plague, you're rooting for death. Three months ago, we begged you to introduce the measures. What did they do? Twenty thousand football matches were held, crowd events were organized, because Viktor Orbán feared for the decline of the economy. Well, even that didn't work, because the economy in the EU has fallen less than in Hungary. Exactly because you steal, steal, steal, lie, and lie! That's exactly why we're going to replace you in 2022. Yes, together, yes, we do, because we are not asking for this shameful governance anymore. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-22	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2020-12-14-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm not gonna yell and yell in this Chamber even if you do it for five minutes. What I'd like to add in advance is that from a party that once was unable to measure itself in an election [[Szabó Timea: KDNP! Z. Carpathian Daniel: KDNP!]] We'd expect greater restraint in the matter of failure. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as anti-Semitism and Nazis are concerned, please address such comments to Jobbik, the one with whom they joined, the one with the roof slider, the anti-Semit candidate, or the one with the IX. a district where your joint candidate works and says unspeakable sentences. As far as the epidemic is concerned, the most important circumstance remains the fact that it is spreading strongly around the world and restrictive measures have been put in place in the vast majority of European countries. Take one, for example, but Germany is richer than we are. Over the last few days, the number of deaths and daily new infections has set a record, where the opposition doesn't do what you do. Schools and shops selling non-essential goods remain closed, restaurants are closed, and even public alcohol consumption is against the law. It also shows that the imposition of restrictive measures is not a Hungarian peculiarity, but a fundamental circumstance in virtually every country in Europe. And since the number of infected people remains high in Hungary, the government decided to extend the measures, leaving the curfew until 11 January. In the meantime, step by step we will be getting closer to the start of mass vaccinations, any vaccine or any vaccine will be used, and it will have to be approved by the Hungarian authorities. In the meantime, it is important to assess who would like to make use of the vaccine; this is an opportunity, and this is why the vaccineinfo site has started. Thank you all who have already indicated your demand. [[14.30]] Because the vaccine is now our strongest weapon against the virus, the goal is to start mass vaccination as soon as possible. Now, as far as your policy is concerned, you may also have referred to 2022: what you are capable of, whether in the case of the epidemic or in economic matters, clearly shows what you are doing or not doing in the places where you were elected. A year has passed now, and, for example, in Budapest, the Municipality of Budapest, do not blame the government for not having a meaningful program, which is a dangerous cocktail with incapacity. Budapest is the most resourceful Hungarian city, it had every opportunity and opportunity to defend itself against the epidemic and against the harmful economic effects of the epidemic. The fact that he doesn't is not the government's responsibility, but yours. And about what they are capable of in economic matters, because you often refer to it, their bus tender tells us everything: a bullshit has won a multi-hundred-million-dollar commission that didn't even exist when the tender was launched, there's no experience for the company, and according to the news, it doesn't have a single one-pounder bus. How absurd! And it turned out that the supervisory board had indicated the risks, as it did, that they could have cheated on the tender. So before you try to lecture everyone here on moral and economic issues, you'd better stand up and tell them how this happened. The truth is, there are a lot of people who say that you don't have any real politics, and that's what I'm arguing with. I think they have a policy: it's in the bullshit, in the abandoned subway tunnels, in the stalling developments, it's in the resistance to responsibility in the TV studios, and in the constant bitterness of the government, and in the endless facebook moaning, and to mention one more thing: the ongoing campaigning against their own country. Your politics is actually stuck in traffic, in the first session full of fake news campaigns and huge hatred in their hearts. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's...]] That's the case, and that's what's going on with you. Speaking of your example, you lied about the statistics. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] , you were touring the Korózs kamuvideo, you brought that Kamuvide case to the House, you campaigned with it, you regretted the protective equipment from the Hungarians across the border (Szabó Timea intervenes.) Yeah, you've been rooting for the virus all along. So there's nothing, zero, zero basis for calling anyone on moral issues. I wish you a more responsible policy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-24	Lóránt László Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Before I begin my speech before the agenda, I would like to respond to Mr Prime Minister's reply to me. You did not agree, Prime Minister, that basically our national interests must be protected against Chinese great powers and brutal economic pressure in China. I would like to reply to the Prime Minister that it is another country to cooperate as a partner, whether with a great power, and another to fully submit to it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We agree on that!]] What Hungary is doing about China is the perfect submission, and the ectant example of this is this year's decision that you are the nearly a thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway project, the railway development project, which cannot be interpreted from the Hungarian national interests' side, is not only shutting down from the Chinese interests in such a serious economic crisis, but also encrypting the related documents, encrypting the possible guarantees that would answer the questions of return in any way, and instead of spending this huge amount on helping Hungarian people, Hungarian families, spending it on this project. Now, this is the perfect submission to the Chinese economic interests, the Chinese great authority interests! In this regard, I can say that we will never agree with the Prime Minister. We are a patriot, we represent a real national policy, not a policy that views it as a policy that, in order to survive a moment of political survival, for the sake of the momentary political gain, can at any time serve the economic interests of both China and Russia because that is what Viktor Orbán and his government do. You can see that we are in a very deep economic crisis, and at this time it is certainly a crisis that, you can say, is unprecedented, and we still do not fully see how long and how deep this economic crisis will be. In such a case, Hungarian people could rightly expect the Hungarian Government to use all means, all means, all means, this is the most important, to protect the health of Hungarian people, and on the other hand, to reduce economic damage, but it is very important, in addition to protecting the economy and protecting jobs, that it is important to see that when this epidemic is over, we should be confident that the economy will start again as soon as possible, how to redesign, how to take these lessons into account, and how to really implement a patriot economic policy that you are putting on your flag, they have been unable to achieve until now, and it can be seen that even the intention has not been made in this connection. If we look at this critical year alone, we could mention the measures when you have given up Hungarian interests, Hungarian national interests, and have slept with such interests, which have already been mentioned. So one of the ectant examples was the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, with which the Hungarian people were indebted. This project can be interpreted from the point of view of Chinese interests, and will be implemented from a gigantic Chinese loan that Hungarian taxpayers will have to pay. Similarly, a few weeks ago we could see the government's intention to spend Hungarian taxpayers' money on new investments in foreign infrastructure. They are now concerned that they wish to participate in the development of a railway project reaching or leading to the port of Koper in Slovenia, and that, from the other side, they have not spent substantial resources in the last ten years on the Hungarian rural railway sideline network, which is in extremely poor condition. Well, in return, we could also see that 34 railway sidelines were virtually sentenced to death by outrageous measures. We can also see that the Russian interests cannot be resisted, and the economic interests of Rosatom, the Russian nuclear giant, are perfectly effective in Hungary. They gave the Russians this gigantic project, which will indebte generations of Hungarian people with lies, and it can be seen that because of the incompetence of the Russians, they could not prepare the plans in time. This project is in a huge delay, and you are trying to compensate for it, and I do not know what interests it is that the legislative environment has been modified several times in order to oil this investment. This is outrageous! And there is one more point to be mentioned: the issue of migration has already been a topic today, and the Prime Minister has spoken about it a lot, and I believe that it will also be a topic tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. How credible is it that you want to deal with the issue of migration in cooperation with a president, a Turkish dictator, President Erdoğan, who, not so long ago, blackmailed and threatened millions of migrants by allowing Europe to move on, and told the communities of Turkish minorities in Europe not to be integrated and sees the Turks living in Europe as a political tool and a political weapon? This is completely unacceptable! We say that, indeed, the solution to the issue of migration is a matter of fate for all Europe, and it is also a question of fate for Hungary, but there is a need for real action here, not such a hypocritical policy, not political campaigns, but to explore the causes of migration through genuine debates, and to act in substance in order to manage it and to resolve it. There is no alternative to the fact that, in view of the devastation that has already taken place in the economy, the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary and Europe, all means must be used to ensure that reconstruction actually allows the development of a patriotic national economy. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-26	State Secretary Tamás Schanda will answer. I give you the floor.
u2020-12-14-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A sentence about the veto, because that's what he started his speech with. I think that the last week has shown that it is worth standing up for Hungary, it is worth standing up for the Hungarian interest in Brussels, and it is not possible to force external will on Hungary. This struggle must, of course, continue on a number of issues, but it shows that it is worth standing up for the Hungarian interest. It would be good for you to recognise this, and I would dare to say that you are fighting for the interests of Hungary. Honourable Congressman, In the main part of his speech he brought a question to the Parliament, about which we have often debated here, among the walls of the Parliament, the question of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Allow me, Congressman, to start with what you know very well: you know very well that the civil-national government is developing and expanding the possibilities of the railway. Your allies, the left, where you're trying to join, were your friends who destroyed rail transport, destroyed the national railway company during their terrible governance: railway lines were closed, hundreds, thousands of railroad families were destroyed, wing lines closed at 1300 kilometers in length. Honourable Congressman, We're next to the railroad. Look around and discuss it with those with whom you would like joint governance, why it was destroyed. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] , why they privatized matters related to the MÁV! [[14.40]] Honourable Congressman, In addition, let us not forget that the left also has a debt of HUF 300 billion in debt under its governance. left behind at the MÁV, only at the MÁV, so they handed over the national railway company. And when the national-citizen government starts to consolidate the railway undertaking, improve the infrastructure conditions, you are attacking these measures. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian section of the railway line between Budapest and Belgrade was last modernised in the 1970s, and the journey time between the two capitals exceeds 8 hours in a total distance of 350 km. Honourable Congressman, This also shows that it is only for this reason that it is worth doing this railway development, and today's 8-9 hour journey time may be reduced to 2.5-3 hours. And you say no to that. You know perfectly well that this can open new horizons in passenger transport, open new perspectives in national politics, as it connects us with our Hungarian brothers in Vojvodina and opens new horizons in foreign trade for Hungary. Honourable Congressman, You also know that we have talked about this here in Parliament many times, and that we are also talking about an obligation for the European Union to modernise this railway line. You know exactly what I mean. You are asking us to account for an investment that we think is right, and which the European Union would also be calling on us if we didn't. Do you want an infringement procedure against Hungary? It is attacking an investment that will provide work for thousands of people in the construction process and will also provide a livelihood for thousands of people when the renovation is completed, because there is a need for modernisation and capacity building, partly because of EU expectations and partly because of our national strategy goals. Honourable Congressman, Let me also draw attention to the fact that the rail network in Hungary is the fifth busiest in Europe, serving some 150 million passengers a year and carrying tens of millions of tons of goods. And in contrast to what you have said, we consider this railway line to be important, in the period between 2018 and 2023 more than HUF 1700 billion will be made from EU and domestic development resources: we will renovate some 660 kilometres of railway lines, build 200 kilometres of new sections and electrify some 440 kilometres of railway lines. This is the real development. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-28	I now give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány on behalf of DK.
u2020-12-14-29	In a good week Hungary will celebrate Christmas. This is certainly my last comment in this session. This year was very different from the previous year. In fact, as far as I'm concerned, there is no family table where they don't talk about a virus or a virus epidemic; and it also shields Christmas before us. We've been bumping into each other in this House a lot, and I wouldn't do that right now. You and your constituents are pretty much aware of what one of us thinks about this story. What could I possibly wish for, together? If there's anything, it's that we're trying to talk about things together, at the family table and in politics, instead of fighting in a very simple way. We have serious debates, that's true, we sometimes label each other unduly, that's also true. Some of our debates are very, very fair, deep human dilemmas. I'm not going to simplify this now, but around Christmas, I think it's a very serious dilemma, and we think very differently about it. But this could also be discussed in such a way that there will be no victims at the end of such a debate. The way I see it, sometimes he's got pointless victims. There is no way I would like to give the false impression, even before Christmas, that I would like to resolve these debates in the spirit of some kind of love, not at all, but I definitely think that because I myself have been in politics for a relatively long time now, it would be nice to be able to separate from each other what is really wrong with the politician he represents, because he can't really be with anyone else, because in this relationship, or I have a problem with the man behind him. He can't be with that because Hungarian parliamentarism has become such a thing that there is hardly any human connection between us. You too need a lantern to look for an opposition with whom you have a personal relationship beyond politics, and vice versa. Here, a lot of people are making terrible efforts in this trap at times, too, so that far beyond the political debate, the dignity and integrity of each other are not violated. It seems to have become a part of our world here. Maybe Christmas will give us an opportunity to realize that this isn't okay. So, as politicians, I've had a lot of fights with you. I'm sorry, but as a private person, there's no such thing. Well, we don't even go out, I don't know what kind of private people you are, you have brothers, parents, kids... We'd be a little further into the story. And let us deal with those of us who are being sent to this House, what is our business, with public affairs, and let people live their own lives. There are so many ways to live a happy life, we don't have to decide that. I wish you all a little more calm than that. If we've hurt someone unduly, hurt them in the last year, let's face it, and let's just say it's our unwarranted vehemence. Whoever can, spend several days among their loved ones; and try to create a better Hungary next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-12-14-30	[[For signal:]] That means the government wants to react. Are you sure? [[Csaba Dömötör: Yes.]] Then I'll give you the floor.
u2020-12-14-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond because it is a remarkable thing to talk about style, tone or the matter of love before Christmas in this House. One thing I would like to say to you, Mr Group Leader, is that we will never allow you to have the kind of tone that you allow every day, either in the Chamber or outside the Chamber. They light up, rattling, brainwashing, lice slides, terrifying training, and you publicly threaten people who don't think the same or the same way about you by becoming land runners. So it's interesting that you're trying to reflect on love in Parliament a few days before Christmas, but when you do, in fact, I think you're fighting with your own conscience. That's the thing. While we're here, allow me to respond to one more thing. You've opened a flag these days, and it's quite clear. And if we look at his other speeches, like his articles and interviews, then it's clear that they've turned to the election campaign, they only deal with 2022. That's why you've announced 14 points, and that's why you're giving extensive interviews, which is what left-wing parties and right-wingers can do. And there's a lot of that coming out. For example, the fact that you're sitting in your living room is your way of saying that, where the doorknob is given to each other by the dominant players on the left. You're the one who reports this. And technically, he's also triumphant about everyone's submission, and then Jobbik's will, but they're still making an official decision about it. So now they're looking for the chunks on the small fork floor, and Jobbik's looking for maybe 30 silver coins. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You already took it!]] The most important new thing is that you have publicly nominated your own wife as Prime Minister candidate today. Of course, they're still levitating it, pretending it's not permanent, hasn't decided yet, but we know it is, probably is. So the Gyurcsány family will appoint a candidate for the next election. [[14.50]] If someone asked what your wife has done in the last few days, for example, what you need to know about her, the answer would be to push the anti-Hungary campaign massively. They campaigned quite openly so that Hungary could not win the Brussels agreement, and they even campaigned to stop getting so much resources and spread lies quite openly. As a new element, your wife, Klára Dobrev, conducted such a false campaign even in Poland, and did not bring justice there, for example, from a successful family support programme, saying that it could be thanked Brussels, while it was the initiative of the Polish Government. How do they say you're a Balatonress in Polish? It is also a fundamental circumstance that he continued this campaign with foreign money, with tens of millions of forints. The question is then who you work for, who you represent in these fake news campaigns. In the case of a great union, you say quite openly that the left parties and you are thinking of Jobbik in this case, and they are already saying what you have been saying for ten years, and you think it's good news. We think it's devastating news, because all those years after the eye shots, the left still raises a moral amok jockey on the shield, and there's only one small development that Jobbik was picked up in a sidecar. Make sure they don't forget to scrape off the guard sticker. Dear House, It is clear that Ferenc Gyurcsány will be his name giver, and all that is missing is that, obviously, in the next few days, weeks and months, they will also seek foreign sponsors. But whoever is nominated from the Little Gyurcsány family, as long as you are here on the Hungarian political stage, there is no end to post-communism, and until this post-communism is over, be sure that we will fight it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-32	László Varga, representative of the MSZP is now coming. I give you the floor.
u2020-12-14-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is the end of the year, in the last days we are here at the session, and perhaps it is worth considering in many specialities what this year has brought. In terms of local governments, it is perhaps worth a year to review, because in mid-October, 13 October 2019, there was a municipal election, which had a lot of hope in this country, a change started, and many opposition victories were born. At the same time, on the night of the municipal elections, the Prime Minister said that he would not pay attention to the party positions and colours of the municipalities, in fact the government would support the work of the municipalities, and in this spirit the mid-October started. Then, at the end of last year, there were several parliamentary decisions that would not quite be this calm atmosphere in the year 2020. This year began in the life of local governments by the fact that the National Competitiveness Council, which was the first government body to hear its proposal, was actually the first to be heard by the municipalities, which was to them, which would have taken some 80 to 100 billion from their local industrialisation tax revenues, in fact taking away their continuance in the last ten years. Then, however, the government spokes gradually, but remember that this was the suggestion of a government body, and yet it was that this would have made the work impossible for many local governments who had the most direct relations with Hungarian citizens in everyday life. Then the local government leaders did not think that this year could be even more harsh, but when there was a pandemic, the coronal virus epidemic, when it was necessary for the municipalities working in the front line of defense to receive even more additional resources, since they should not forget that during the first period, the municipal leaders bought the basic tools of defence in many places, the municipalities provided it, so when they were expecting help, you announced a number of measures that had been taken away from the municipalities. Just with the year-end list, so we can remember them anyway. The car tax, which is about HUF 34 billion, was taken away from the municipalities. And let us not forget that 100 percent of the car tax remained in the municipalities before 2010, and that 34 billion is only 40 percent of that amount. The car tax has been withdrawn, while, of course, it is expected that the municipalities will solve, for example, road renovation problems as they wish and know. Then, right here in this room, Secretary of State Schanda told me not to ask questions about whether the government is in danger of losing support for local public transport. However, this type of aid was also taken away, although in many Western European states at least one third of it is paid by the state to local public transport for environmental and social reasons. So the bad news is coming every now and then to the local government, the government is drawing resources from the front line of defense, it's pulling ammunition. That is the biggest problem with this issue. A city with county rights the size of Miskolc let me talk about a slightly narrower Patriam due to an epidemic and the withdrawal of funds total about HUF 7 billion. Not to mention new decisions that were made at the end of the year, the imposition of public utility tax and the disadvantage of larger settlements, but otherwise traffic chaos and loss of revenue in the area of free parking. Sándor Szabó and I have tabled a motion to refund the car tax precisely and to return the state aid for local public transport this year and for next year. This motion would also have arranged for the government to reimburse the costs of the defence of the municipalities. The Committee on Budgets would have discussed this today, but Fidesz MEPs, among other things, did not come to this agenda in an unprecedented manner, and did not allow this motion to be discussed by Parliament even later this year. This procedure is outrageous. Thus, before Christmas, reconsider their attitude towards local governments and withdraw these outrageous decisions! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-14-34	State Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We agree that the municipalities are important players in the Hungarian state set-up and constitutional set-up, which is why I do not wish to criticise the part of his speech to compare who has dealt with the municipalities in the last 30 years and how he has fulfilled these constitutional obligations. Obviously, your speech was one-sided, because the story did not start in 2010 but before 2010 there were municipalities, and before 2010 there should have been a cooperation between the municipalities and the government, a cooperation. The conditional method is justified on my part because you have made sport out of giving tasks, but funding has been taken away from the municipalities. In the period 2002-2010, the Hungarian State and the municipalities were indebted on a programme basis. I can see from the statistics that in 2010, we were saying that 8 000 powers belong to the Hungarian state, and that the municipalities should have provided 3,500 of them, while you constantly, year after year, month after month, week after week, you can say that the amount of aid granted to them in this context has been reduced. This caused the total debt of municipalities to rise to more than HUF 1200 billion by 2010 to an unprecedented extent. That's what we needed to consolidate. From the smallest municipalities to the largest local government, to the municipality of Budapest, these municipalities received debt consolidation, which was important in order to regain the financial independence that is essential for dealing with the problems of the people living in Budapest. [[15.00]] Then we launched targeted development programmes. In the case of the largest municipalities, i.e. municipalities belonging to cities with county rights, we have launched a development programme of more than 4000 billion, which has never been seen before. The Hungarian Village programme and the targeted programmes for medium-sized settlements have led to unprecedented rural development. If you look at the figures and we try to take our dialogue back from the level of political accusations to the level of facts, you will see that, in addition to reducing the number of tasks related to municipalities, the budgetary support available to municipalities has even increased in recent years. Moreover, thanks to good economic performance, which is the merit of all Hungarian citizens, the local government's own revenues have also increased more than double. In 2020, despite the epidemic, we were already in the vicinity of the thousand billion forints. And if you look at the numbers for next year, you simply have to open the budget law and look at the relevant line. There you will see, contrary to the rumor of opposition parties, that next year the budget support for the municipal sector will be 16 percent higher than the amount of support available for this year. Congressman, these are the facts. Only one of these, if one can say so, is the government's political expectation that these resources will not be used for political attacks, but that they should work and help the people living locally and help the overall national case of control of the coronal virus. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] There are local governments, some of which are pro-government, independent and otherwise opposition-based municipalities, which are able to meet this requirement, and there are local governments, including the municipality of Budapest and Mayor Gergely Karácsony, who are not concerned with defence, but who are trying to fill the pockets of the political nomenclature, who are constantly thinking about tax increases, so that the government has to act against them and create chaos in the context of road traffic protection. We think it's unacceptable. Thank you very much to all the municipalities who are taking their part in the defense, and those who are engaged in political feuds, and I would like to ask them to change their posture next year. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-36	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: This is your daily routine? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Secretary of State, perhaps we can agree that these last few days, weeks are not the Fidesz, not the government's days, weeks. We heard in the press that a high-ranking state leader was taken in handcuffs, and the next day it turned out that it was János Nagy, Deputy State Secretary of the Agricultural Ministry, who was suspected of misdemeanor abuse, corruption and other crimes. In short, the story is that a KFT registered on 10 June of this year offered to obtain public money, not least, 830 million forints, and to assist them with their political influence in buying land. Well, he did that, too. In return, Deputy Secretary of State asked for 5% of the company's shares, which he was able to increase to 10 percent by raising capital. Yes, there are other Fidesz leaders involved in this story, from Törökszentmiklós to downtown government. In fact, we can find other partners, other Fidesz local governments and state companies, and even János Nagy is a member of the Supervisory Board of Hungaroring. His name was quickly deleted from the website, but I'm guessing he's still picking up his fee. It is an aggravating factor that all this has been taken from the middle of a pandemic, so all this public money, these resources, let's say, family farmers in distress, other in distress in the sector. Just the other day, the turtles reported that the purchase price was humiliatingly low, but the beekeepers were constantly and rightly complaining, so it would have been a much more useful place for this money than the deputy secretary of state's private pocket. By the way, Mr. Secretary, I think it could have been different. So when Minister Sándor Fazekas was replaced, and Márton Örs Bitay left the Ministry, we both know that a number of suspicious transactions have been carried out, and I think about the private handing over of public land, I think about the very specific redeployment of hunting areas here, but I can also aim at playing in the Fidesz area of fishing areas, so after all we could have thought that a new chapter could start in the life of the agricultural purse. But after these scandals, it's clear that it didn't. I look forward to the information you may be able to share with us, Mr. Secretary of State, despite the ongoing investigation. I think it's fair to expect that what doesn't affect the investigation to be known. For example, many of us are interested in the initiation of an internal investigation in the Ministry. Do you think it's possible that a corruption case of this magnitude could be carried out without your superiors knowing it? Has anyone else helped with this operation inside the Ministry? Did Minister, or did you know, at all, that this case was known to you? And in a slightly broader perspective, I think this case will shed some light on something else. For example, when Jobbik has been saying for years that there should be a transparent tendering system, that we should turn the course around and not put the big estate system on ice, that we should not continue to strengthen the large estate system, but that we should redistribute the funds to small and medium-sized family farmers living on the ground, then why do you say no? It sheds light on why you are going against the policy of Ankara that you represented before 2010 and then for a few months after that. After all, in a model, in a landscape that we imagine, all these far-reaching abuses of hundreds of millions would be unimaginable. It also makes it clear why, in contrast to the cooperative model, you support the creation of landlords in one area, where out of the hundreds of millions of applications, it is easy for your political decision-makers. Because of all this, I claim that this is not an exceptional case that has now come to light, but is certainly part of the daily routine. I can say this not only with your wallet, but also with full governance. Unfortunately, this policy has paid off for you so far. The responsibility for us oppositions is not only to tell and try to get answers and to generate answers to cases that have come to light, but it is also our responsibility to prove to the entire Hungarian society that it could be different, it would be possible to provide these resources to the people who really deserve them within the framework of a fair government. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2020-12-14-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, [[His mic's not working.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
u2020-12-14-40	I'd like to ask for help from colleagues. [[They put a portable microphone in front of Alexander Wolf.]] Thank you, it'll be fine.
u2020-12-14-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The issue raised by you could once again be the whole of a half-day agricultural debate, which discusses a significant part of the current daily events of the agricultural sector. I'm surprised you didn't ask a question about fishing or any other issue, or about the water foaming of Rába, which is also in the spirit of the news. However, of course, I do not want to bypass your question, but at the same time I must reject your last remark to do various generalizations for the whole government. I would like to make a brief statement to your first question, which, I believe, will give you nothing new, in which you are investigating the offence of bribery of the Office of the Regional Investigator's Office in Budapest and other crimes. I cannot and cannot give you more information on the actions carried out and planned, the evidence obtained and the assessment thereof, in the light of the interests of the investigation. We were indeed shocked to hear about the incident in the Ministry. I think that if someone makes a mistake, they should always take responsibility for it. [[15.10]] In Hungary, against corruption, we know very well that there is zero tolerance, and on 2 December, Minister of State initiated the removal of Deputy State Secretary from his office, and the Ministry will give all the assistance it can to the prosecution's work. I believe that we can provide concrete answers to more detailed discussion or questioning of this after further examination. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, you have asked questions that affect other sectors of the agricultural economy. Here he specifically asks questions about agricultural policy, where is the Angyáni policy. I would like to note to you that, if we look at the situation of the agricultural sector, the agricultural economy, the agricultural future, the economy and its role in the national economy today, when the sector has been rated to this extent, so that it can fully meet the consumer needs in quality and quantity that are necessary and important for the population of Hungary in this very difficult year of 2020, I think that I do not want to express the competitiveness and productivity of the sector in the first place, but I think it is a bit silly. It is clear to me that the Hungarian agricultural sector, in the coming period, if we see the European Union's development policy, we see the common agricultural policy, we see the plans, the digital agricultural programme that we have also adopted, they clearly paint the situation, the vision that we have in mind, not only paint it, but we implement it, and we are still active in it, on which we must clearly take the side of efficiency and productivity, so that this sector can create Hungary's food needs safely and in the long term. Of course, that includes the little ones, the big ones, if I may say so. And today, when we see that in recent weeks some HUF 25 billion has been allocated to small farms, and even smaller ones, whose economic activity and economic development can be greatly supported by the government, I think this example speaks for itself. At the same time, if we look at it, you were here in the debate on the future of family farms, on primal activity, on the development of opportunities for primal production, and you agreed that yes, this is the right way. This is why these two approaches are combined, these two activities are combined, and when we see in Hungary today the economic units that are able to produce this production standard, this production value, the two can achieve this potential together. About prices, just because the opposition likes to push today what food prices there are: there was indeed a minimum inflation effect, and then... [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] Yes, minimal inflation, and then the natural disasters and world market prices that we cannot be free from, neither can you, nor I, nor anyone in the country, have had some food price-enhancing effects on prices. But if we go to a grocery store now and see how much a kilo of chicken breasts or how much a kilo... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Potato!]] You can say the potatoes, because it's 189 forints, so let's stop for a second. Unfortunately, bananas are much cheaper than Hungarian apples at the moment, so here's what we can do. I do not want to open this issue, but it is clear that Hungarian food prices [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they are still depressed compared to the European Union. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-42	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Szászfalvi, KDNP Group asked for a speech on all fronts against the virus. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary, like the rest of the world, has been fighting over almost the entire year 2020 to control the coronal virus epidemic. After the outbreak, the government introduced rapid measures. The introduction of the extraordinary legal order in March at the time of the first wave of the epidemic proved its functionality and effectiveness and contributed significantly to the control of the epidemic. Thanks to joint action, national cooperation, health, education and law enforcement, and the efforts of all concerned victims, the country has successfully fought the first wave of the coronal virus epidemic. Dear House, After the first wave, we did not escape the second wave of the virus, which had to continue and continue to be protected. Therefore, the government has already taken a number of measures in the autumn: masking, free flu vaccination, introduction of the official price of PCR tests, compulsory body temperature measurement in schools. Then, with effect from 4 November, the government again declared an emergency and decided almost immediately on protective measures. These measures were extended until 10 January. We are aware of the need to make responsible decisions in times of distress and that the measures that have been taken and are ahead of us seem to be unusual and foreign restrictions, but compliance with them, unity and discipline can be our most important reserves of power. Dear House, The national government did not introduce a multitude of restrictions to the economic problems caused by the coronal virus epidemic, as did left-wing governments, but dealt with and handled the situation with rapid and concrete economic protection measures and health protection measures. For the benefit of entrepreneurs and workers, the government has introduced wage support for employment protection, tax and contribution reductions, credit moratorium, investment incentives and credit programmes, training grants, and has already managed to protect more than 1.4 million employees' jobs, improve their prospects and opportunities. One of the lowest unemployment rates in Hungary is the European comparison; according to the October data of the HCSO, the unemployment rate is 4.3 percent. But the government, besides the economy, does not forget the families, and in the midst of the epidemic, it has developed new measures to help families find homes. As part of the new home creation action plan, a 5% VAT discount was introduced; families with at least one child can be fully exempt from paying VAT after buying a home with CSOK, as well as a new home renovation program, through which half of the renovation costs will be taken over by the state up to HUF 3 million. Dear Parliament, Despite all government programs and defenses, we know that it is not possible to fight the virus permanently without proper vaccination. The Fidesz-KDNP government aims to save the lives and health of as many people as possible. The fight against the virus and the cure are taking place, and we are doing well in this international comparison. The aim must now be to get a vaccine as quickly and as safe as possible, free from complications. Registration has been opened on the Internet for vaccination against the coronal virus. The vaccination plan has been prepared by the operational staff: first, the defence workers, then the elderly, and then the health condition are at risk. The vaccine will be voluntary and free of charge. Dear House, Protection against the epidemic and the vaccine should not be a political issue. Elementary students know this: one thing: you don't have to be an academic. Nevertheless, the Left is engaged in a party political and ideological hatred war against the government. For the government, on the other hand, all life matters, all life is important. We're in the Advent period. Advent is a time of hope. With this Advent hope, we look forward and hope that we can overcome the virus with God's help by united forces. Let's do this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at who's been doing what in the last few months, the nearly narrow one year since the whole world has faced the epidemic: the government has dealt with the protection against the epidemic, while the left has seen only the means of grabbing power in the coronal virus epidemic. [[15.20]] Morally, whatever it takes, he wants to use it as a tool to gain power. While the government has doubled the wages of doctors during the epidemic, some left-wing mayors use the extraordinary legal order to distribute bonuses to themselves. While the government listens to WHO, the left listens to Németh Athina. While the government spent more than a thousand billion forints on protecting against the virus and implemented as quickly as possible the various changes in which we were able to walk in front of other countries of Europe, and that is why we were able to successfully defend ourselves, the left-wing Kamuvideo Lajos Korózs produced Kamuvideo and uploaded fake statistics on the Internet. While the government bought masks, protective equipment, ventilators from abroad, the left went abroad or contacted foreign press products to spread false news about Hungary abroad, even about the lack of masks or insufficient protective equipment. While the government launched an information campaign on the vaccine, Klára Dobrev launched a campaign to discredit his own country with EU money. While the government decided on a credit moratorium, the left-wing bitcoin mined, smuggled cigarettes, followed by nocical boxes, another cardboard box came out of the left-wing prop store. While the government freed the Internet and reduced taxes for home-school students, left-wing municipalities raised taxes, raised fees, raised rent, raised transport tickets or reduced wages. While the government tried to help with tax incentives and direct subsidies at the catering venues, with contributions reductions, some left-wing mayors increased the cost of public use for catering venues to a number of times. While the government has presented numerous proposals to the Parliament for the control of the epidemic, the left-wing country has been told that Parliament will not even meet. While the government increased the wages of nurses and health professionals by 14 and 20 percent this year, this year, for the first time in January and then in November, while Szabó Timea, also attacking them, rumoured that most people in the world would die in Hungary, which is obviously unreal. While the defence dealt with the government's request to disinfect the nursing homes, Gergely Christmas, who was left-wing in Budapest, did not even notice that there was permanent medical care in the nursing home on Pesti Road. While the government consulted people over the summer on the control of the epidemic and then acted, one left-wing dwarf party submitted a proposal to Parliament that pensioners could not even get on public transport. And as long as the government negotiates with any potential vaccine manufacturer to bring as many vaccines to Hungary as possible, the left also produces false news about the vaccine, even that Hungary does not actually negotiate with European or American vaccine manufacturers, and with this trust-reducing fake news campaign, the left directly strengthens anti-vaccinations. What have we managed to avoid with other countries in recent times? In France, heart patients and patients with metastatic cancer are being delayed even their urgent surgeries because the health care system cannot cope. In France, strike was also announced, like many other countries, by the individual health sector workers. In France, whose test is positive, it is still mandatory to continue working as a nurse in voluntary work; and we have also seen examples of which, for a very long time, it has not been possible that patients with coronal viruses will be transferred from some countries to other countries. In other countries health workers protest, nurses, and doctors on the streets because they have inadequate care. In other countries, governments make anti-viral decisions against which there are also protests on the streets, while in Hungary, the people and the government can defend themselves against the virus epidemic in unity, but only the opposition is unfortunately the exception of this unit. In Italy, patients are treated in corridors or in hospital parking lots, possibly in hotel rooms. In Britain, there is already an educational film about how to test yourself without health workers. In Belgium, coronal doctors are also asked to continue working; in other countries airports are converted into epidemic hospitals. Some have insufficient ventilators, some do not have enough equipment, and even in Switzerland, patients are asked to pre-destiny, apply for treatment in a severe coronal virus situation or not. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if not, their beds will be freed by others. Well, that's what we've managed to avoid in Hungary over the last few months. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-46	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-12-14-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Hungary cannot be blackmailed, and our sovereignty cannot be a bargaining point, and everyone has seen this clearly since last week. The cooperation between Hungary and Poland has brought victory to common sense, and as a result of the debate, Europe has maintained its unity. However, there is something depressing about the fact that a corrupt American financial speculator can have any influence at all in the EU's decision-making mechanisms, while he does not have any democratic legitimacy, and instead of kicking him out of the continent with his network, his misleading news media, and his often-intelligent NGOs, along with his bought-in people, are opening doors in Brussels. To quote classics, however, he has now received a tock and a coke, because Member States cannot be punished for false reasons, no matter how much he desired it, and more importantly, and this is the most outstanding for our country, it is not possible to impose financial aid on any condition during a pandemic. Hungary has won, it was worth standing to the extreme for Hungarian interests, and the Hungarian interest is that we can protect people's lives and the economy as much as possible. Many of the EU's purchased bureaucrats imagined that the current pandemic and the economic difficulties that brought it upon themselves would bring the right moment to introduce the methods of punishment and blackmail, to force us to make decisions that we do not want to make. The dice have turned and failed, but this does not mean that the European debates are over. The 34 million immigrants' voting rights and housing rights are on the same table as before, and the genderlobbi is working hard. The current success is therefore important, but incomplete, and preventing the migration action plan will bring a lot of conflict on the EU front. However, there is also an internal political lesson behind the few weeks left behind, a few months, which everyone can draw, but let's look at the facts. The Hungarian left did not support the introduction of an extraordinary legal order, did not vote in favour of the law against the Crown Virus, they spread lies about domestic defence in Brussels and throughout Europe. One of their key statements in the spring was that the Hungarian Parliament did not work, it did not meet while you were sitting here. They had embarrassing reports written about Hungary, made a Kamuvideo about a fake paramedic, and worked hard to deprive our country of legal EU funds. They tried to dissuade people, the latest on vaccination, but they also lied about respirators, they wanted to erase students' graduations, and we could go on a long list. Benevolently 8 lies and 8 betrayals in eight months, even by the historical standards of the left. They'd sell and sell their country for 30 pieces of silver, that's what happened last week. However they wanted to hang the chariot of the country, the Hungarian government did not succeed in defending the country's independence and the Hungarian people's money. The Polish and Hungarian veto showed Europe what a real value-based collaboration means. Colleagues on the left, you may already feel that you have crossed all the lines. They would have helped those of the American speculator in Brussels to take the country's money, whatever it takes, to capitalise on political capital from every health and economic risk of the epidemic; there may not be much excuse for that. One thing is certain, it may be worth repeating what I said earlier today. Today there is only one political force in Hungary, the pro-government coalition that is so free and strong that it is able to meet national interests and defend national interests. [[15.30]] I would like to make it clear to you before you go any further in the news: Hungary will be among the first to see the vaccine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what has happened in the last one or two weeks in the European debate is a failed story of turning against Hungarian interests, will be in the black book of history and will be written on a black paper. It's not clear what their plan was then. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] when they lobbyed for Hungary not to receive the money it was entitled to. I trust that the next period will validate the government's policy (the president bell rings) And I trust that the opposition representatives will find out that the crime they have committed is historical. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the extraordinary European Council held last week, at which an agreement was finally reached on the matter of the budget for the next period and the recovery fund for the Crown Virus. These were important decisions and it is reassuring that all the EU Member States were finally able to agree and unanimously support the conclusions that are now available to all of us. In the past, the previous proposals put at risk that budgetary resources, which go to Member States under the EU Treaties, could be subject to political conditions by certain institutions in Brussels, and references to this could be made to a large number, and we could hear quite a few of them in the speeches before today's agenda. Finally, these political considerations have been removed from the text, and if we look at the conclusions, we can read the following. The Regulation on general conditions for the protection of the Union budget is responsible for the protection of sound financial management and the financial interests of the Union. The application of the conditionality mechanism under the Regulation may be carried out in an objective, fair, impartial and evidence-based manner, ensuring that legal proceedings, non-discrimination and equal treatment are required. The Commission shall issue guidelines on how the Regulation applies, which may be challenged before a court. When applying the mechanism, it should be respected that it is subsidiary, and measures should be considered only if other procedures would not allow for effective budget protection. There should be a sufficient direct causal link between the infringements and the negative consequences of the financial interests of the Union and a general breach is not sufficient to activate the mechanism. And I can continue the points that show that the threat of political pressure has been eliminated, that Hungarian interests have been protected, and that the Government of Hungary can support the launch of the budget for the next period and the opening of proposals on the recovery fund. The other subject, mentioned by Mr Group leader, is partly related to this, is partly beyond this, and we cannot look at an ad-act situation here, because the Commission has previously published its action plan on so-called integration and inclusion for the period 2021 to 27, how interesting it is that the budget for the next period and the Commission's integration and reception action plan for the next period are one another, so we are not far from the reality if we think that the Commission will do everything to make this approach count on the Member States, and we are experiencing alarming things here. The Action Plan promotes full inclusion, recognises the significant contribution of migrants to the functioning of the Union, seeks to remove obstacles to the participation and inclusion of migrants in European society from newcomers to EU citizens. The advantage should be placed on migrants, who must be supported, as well as entrepreneurs, in education, in employment, and in access to health services. Moreover, the Action Plan proposes targeted financial support for those with a migrant background, as it also says that the success of integration and inclusion depends on early action and long-term commitment, so that integration can start before arriving in the EU. The Action Plan also talks about the need to financially support the process and even cooperate with a so-called civil society organisation through European regional development funds, social funds, asylum funds and other funds. This is, in our view, unacceptable. During the next period, the Hungarian government intends to devote a great deal of strength and energy to protecting Hungary's interests. We maintain our anti-immigration position, and it would be good if we could count on not only the pro-government, but also the support of opposition representatives. This year, unfortunately, has not been the case, and we hope it will change next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-50	I thank the Deputy Minister for his reply. [[Move.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the list of speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-12-14-51	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; László Varju, DK; Tamás Harangozó, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Hollik, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik.
u2020-12-14-52	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that those who have not yet taken over the package for the declaration of assets may still do so at the reception desk at the entrance to the President of the Chamber. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of your voting machines now. [[Attendance check. Present: 149, away: 50. Csaba Dömötör reporting.]] Thank you very much, Honourable Parliament. Please, Mr Csaba Demeter, State Secretary [[Intercoms from the opposition: Dömötör! Intercom from Jobbik: Szilárd Demeter! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] please examine your voting machine. Dear Parliament, The Committee on European Affairs has initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion in respect of the five draft regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council constituting the Asylum and Migration Pact B/14334. Report H/14335 on the adoption of this Decision A proposal for a decision. The Committee on European Affairs has initiated that the proposal for a decision may be submitted by the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure has been taken, the joint debate will take place on tomorrow's meeting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on the 16 December meeting. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept B/14334. H/14335 and H/14335. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the negotiations of the proposals in exceptional proceedings by 139 votes in favour, 2 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 6:40 p.m. today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the Parliament's agenda for the meeting of 14 and 15 December 2020 be supplemented by the B/14334 on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion in relation to the five draft European Parliament and Council regulations constituting the Asylum and Migration Pact. Report No 1 and H/14335 on its adoption By discussing the proposal for a resolution No 20VII of 2020 on the support of the parliamentary group for the joint joint debate on Tuesday, 15 December 2020. T/13928 on the amendment of the Act Following a discussion of the Commission's report on the legislative proposal No 1 as the last item on the agenda. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that on Tuesday, December 15, 2020 the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences, as well as the T/13676 on the conditions and resources necessary for the operation of the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences. T/13677 on the transfer of certain tasks of the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation to higher education and amending certain laws on higher education The decision to make a summary amendment to the legislative proposal No 1 shall be taken as the item on the agenda following the final vote. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group proposed that tomorrow's meeting be held on T/13647 on the ninth amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. The final vote and the final vote are not to be decided on by a summary amendment to the proposal No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making of proposals. I ask the Honourable National Assembly, ask the appointed Committee on Foreign Affairs.Hungary Helps Agency Nonprofit Zrt. B/13992 submitted in 2019 entitled on its activities and operation for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee, with 115 votes in favour, 41 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable National Assembly to ask the designated National Defence and Police Committee about the implementation of the defence tasks in 2019, the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces B/14258. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 117 votes in favour, 39 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We will now continue our work by discussing immediate questions; it is 15:45. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2020-12-14-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! Did the four million-dollar potatoes taste good? 'Cause it was expensive, that's for sure. Look, lately, you've been rushing your head, there's been so much scandal around you: bribery, orgy, drugs, pedophilia. But it's nothing compared to a bag of potatoes, because let's face it, whatever drug parties you guys go to, I've been punished the worst for the last 30 years for a bag of potatoes. In vain, some things fit into your false Christian values, some things don't. [[Moors and interrogations from the ruling parties.]] But let's not waste any more time, let's ask questions. In the first round, Prime Minister, there's a real Christian Democratic text assignment for you right now. Listen. Mr. Zsolt Semen will help you. [[Congratulations.]] If a bag of potatoes is worth 4.4 million for violating the authority of the Parliament, then how much punishment is a bag of drugs brought by your MEP from an orgy in Brussels, in violation of the authority of Hungary? I can help you by saying that József Szájer was not punished for this stunt for $4 million, but he can leave with a premium of $40 million. It's pretty amazing. Then there is a much more important question, as the organizer of the Brussels orgy claims that he has had nine Fidesz MEPs, which means that he has nine Fidesz Members who can be blackmailed and who are likely to make decisions contrary to the interests of the country in his work. We need to know who those nine are. For example, László Fat has said that he views women with pity. What about men? Could he be one of them? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Or have you, Prime Minister, ever been to a party like this? [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-54	Mr. Head of the Group...
u2020-12-14-55	We only need to know this because, Prime Minister, slowly... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-56	Mr. Team Leader!
u2020-12-14-57	You're slowly the eternal prime minister of this country, but you haven't had a national security review. And we need to know that you can blackmail him, and if you can, then who and what he's blackmailing him for constantly making decisions against the interests of the country. What are they blackmailing you with, Prime Minister? I expect the answer to that question. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK. Noise.]]
u2020-12-14-58	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who wishes to reply. And I would like to tell the congressman to ignore his personal slanders in this House, and he knows exactly what this is about. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-59	Thank you, Mr. President. I've heard the question, I understand, but I don't understand what your potatoes have to do with the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-60	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-61	That's for the potato king to know, Prime Minister. There's a reason I'm asking you what they're blackmailing you with. What you're doing is against the interests of this country. It can't be in the country's interest that you constantly attack Europe, and at the same time you wink towards the East and finance investments that never return from Russian and Chinese loans, see Budapest-Belgrád railway line. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: KGBéla!]] Obviously, it is no coincidence that you were able to agree with Brussels within moments. Recently, he said that there would be a war here for several months and that there would be no compromise with the Union. Then came the Szájer scandal, and suddenly there was a compromise with the Union. The rule of law remained, and you snuck away under the gardens. [[15.50]] Don't get me wrong, I'm glad you've learned how many slaps there will be, how many mines in the Fidesz, who is blackmailing you, Prime Minister. And as far as my $4 million sentence is concerned, you'll be beaten three times by Goudas Matyi! [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks: Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-14-62	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-63	I must repeat, Mr Speaker, the simple constitutional fact that the sentences imposed on Members of Parliament have nothing to do with the Prime Minister and the Government. Even though you're here, it's another institution called the government. You were punished for your conduct in Parliament, not by the government. [[Intruder from Fidesz, you don't understand.]] And as far as the agents are concerned, I'm particularly glad you brought up the Russian agents, since you're the most qualified in that. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Sure!]] Well, the only party in this Parliament where there were Russian agents, and no one denied that fact, is as if it were the Jobbik. [[Interviews from Jobbik: He's been dismissed by the court! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is in Hungary's interest not only to have a good relationship with as many major countries in the world as possible, but also to have a good business relationship with everyone. Because our foreign policy is not based on gathering enemies, but on building friends, which is why we are building the Belgrade-Budapest railway line in Chinese investment, indeed building a Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and building, among other things, combat or tank factories and other weapons factories with other countries. We build with everyone, invest with everyone, cooperate with everyone. Hungary is a country that can afford to be friends with all major powers in the world. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Long live the business!]]
u2020-12-14-64	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How do they ensure the rest of next year? It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2020-12-14-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Prime Minister! We've known since last year that you like to wish me a merry Christmas instead of a specific answer. I ask you now what you wish for the Hungarian families, because the peace of Christmas was ruined by Fidesz, and you, who let the plague ravage without any real measures, even though if people had been tested in bulk, could have found out who was sick and who wasn't. And if they even gave 100% of the sick workers sick, no one in fear of losing income would refuse to be screened, as did the teachers, for example, to whom you promised the full amount of sick money, but in reality did not give it to them. If you guys were to test people in bulk and give them a hundred percent sick, everyone would know who has to stay home and who is healthy before Christmas. But it's not too late for people not to have the fear that Christmas presents can be pain and grief in a few weeks. Let us take the MSZP's proposal and set up thousands of core virus testing points in the country where the population can be tested free of charge and voluntarily! This would not only increase people's peace of mind, but also slow the spread of the virus. We also have another suggestion that parents who lost their jobs because of the coronal virus should receive 50,000 forints per child, so that this holiday might be a little happier. Prime Minister, you've saved the peace of Christmas this year because you've been given full authority and you're responsible for this. So I'm asking you now, after you've already ruined Christmas and New Year's Eve. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks.]] how, what measures it intends to take to ensure people's peace in the new year, because you should not only wish for Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, but also do so if you are able to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-66	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to point out to you that all the decisions on defence are taken by the operational tribe, and all the professional decisions on defence are taken by the appropriate professionals. When, where, who, how we test, this is not a political issue for us, but a medical question, and here we follow the opinions of the various medical colleges. Only if you had observed developments in the past period, you would have seen that in the last three weeks we have been among the most tested countries in Europe, the first, the second or the third. We tested doctors, nurses, other health care professionals, we tested teachers, we tested government employees, and the results were made public, everyone could see. Believe me, people in Hungary don't get sick because they're in crisis because doctors or nurses don't do their jobs. You constantly give the impression that Hungarian healthcare workers are responsible for the fact that they are sick and cannot cure everyone. This is disrespectful to the work of those who do nothing but try to save the lives of these sick people all day. Even if you try to attack the government, the government has no responsibility in this matter. The only thing we have to do is get enough breathing equipment, have enough doctors and nurses, have hospitals that can take patients in, and have a vaccine as soon as possible. This is the responsibility of the government, and we will do so. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-68	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-14-69	Thank you very much. The level of your response is sinking as fast as an ex-Party on the gutters. [[Defiance from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. Grumbles and interrogations from the pro-government benches: Oh!]] Don't you realize that by asking for and receiving full power, you have to take responsibility. In order to prevent the Hungarian families from going to Christmas on their own, Prime Minister, you are to blame. With mass testing, you could have made sure that people didn't have to be afraid, but you didn't. You gave that money to Lőrinc Ripper, who is your stooge. It's appropriate for a prime minister to take responsibility for the damage he's done. I suggest you do the same. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-70	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-71	I would like to thank you for your moderate criticism, because you could have also said that I am responsible for the spread of the epidemic, say, in Germany, or the spread of the epidemic in Austria, and the Hungarian government is responsible for the whole European epidemic. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Forgive me, but I have to say, this is ridiculous. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-72	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai, representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] What was the real threat to national sovereignty this year? It's an address. [[Interview from Fidesz: Gyurcsány!]] You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! The Conservative Government was nothing more than organized supposing that Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli said, and he only knew it because he led a conservative government. I would like to ask you about national sovereignty, one of your favorite subjects of organised hypocritical governance. One important element of national sovereignty is that states can make decisions independently of the guidelines of others. We might agree on that. One of the prerequisites for this is that those who make decisions should not be blackmailed. But, Prime Minister, your environment was full of extortionable people. Let me give you an example. Szilárd Kiss, who failed national security control, continued to work in the agricultural purse for a long time. Or here's Zaid Naffa, who has a warm relationship with Gaith Pharaon, wanted for terrorism, and with you, whose brother is the ambassador to your government. And then, in the summer, it turns out that in your ranks, pedophile offenders are also hiding. You used taxpayers' money to secretly bring home a pedophile, the former Peruvian ambassador, Gábor Kaleta, whose dirty anti-child crimes were then tried to hide from a country. And then a few weeks ago, the bomb went off, when it turned out that one of the founders of Fidesz, author of the National Christian Fundamental Law, right-wing family father and husband, József Szájer secretly goes to illegal, drugged, group sex orgy, violating the curfew of Covid-19. [[16.00]] These, Prime Minister, are called national security risks, and this is what threatens Hungarian national sovereignty. I would like to inquire, Prime Minister, about what is happening in the Hungarian secret services, and how many extortionable people work in your environment, how many of these people you are friends with. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-12-14-74	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-75	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is quite clear that what an old and great fellow warrior has done cannot fit into our community's lives. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: So far?]] cannot be protected and cannot be saved. You have only one option: to apologize and leave politics. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: The sinking ship!]] the political arena. This has happened; there are stricter rules in public life than in private life, so there is no other choice. As far as blackmail and secret services are concerned, I would just like to say to you that, at the beginning of 2007, when you were in government in Hungary, you let in Russian intelligence professionals, who were pretending to be Bulgarians, into the company's building, and there they had polygraphed some of the people working with about one and a half dozen NSAs. Who's the national security risk here? [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-76	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-14-77	Prime Minister, I really understand that it can't be easy for a prime minister who builds his government on junkies, pedophiles and criminals. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches.]] I can't sympathize with you, but I'm sure it's not easy. But what is not right, Prime Minister, is that you, your government and your national-Christian party are putting Hungarian national sovereignty in jeopardy because you are in contact with people who pose a national security risk. Therefore, Prime Minister, don't you think it's time to do a more thorough national security screening or extend it to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister or even members of the Constitutional Court? For example, as far as I'm concerned, you've never been under this kind of control. What if this happened now? Or perhaps you're afraid, Prime Minister, that you might turn out to be the greatest national security risk in this country? [[It's a lot of noise.]] Is that what you're afraid of? Because it would be very good if Hungarian national sovereignty did not depend on the load capacity of the gutters. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches. Crying from the pro-government benches: It's scintillating!]]
u2020-12-14-78	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-79	Congresswoman, you are right that the government is responsible for the order of national security screenings, given that I have to supervise it directly. I will consider your proposal, all the more so, because the diplomat quoted here, Mr. Kaleta, has been your diplomat for eight years. [[A big round of applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-80	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, leader of the group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, In the debate before the agenda, we started a debate on an important issue, the issue of migration, which I would like to continue. You have not only reduced this topic to a campaign topic for weeks, months, but for years now. You now send a message to George Soros on Facebook almost every day, but from the other side, they said that the government's migration policy would be behind the EU's debates over the last few weeks and months, but that's not true, it's not real. At the same time, it is a fact that migration, its management, is a matter of fate for Europe, and it is clear that illegal migration must be stopped, as well as that immigration policy must remain a national competence of the Member States. That's perfectly clear. At the same time, Prime Minister, we should not campaign on the issue of migration, but we should finally act. If it were really important for Fidesz and the government to fight against migration and, as they say, to protect Christian Europe, then why did they implement a mass resettlement programme that allowed nearly 20,000 people and 20,000 immigrants into the country without substantial control with Rogan settlement bonds, which, as we know, resulted in a loss of $30 billion to the country. If this is important to you, why are you showing up with eastern dictators, despots, who are enemies of Christian Europe? How credible is the fight for Christian Europe, Prime Minister, if you are friends with President Erdoğan, who recently blackmailed Europe by allowing millions of refugees, millions of migrants, and by telling Turkish minorities in Europe not to be integrated and who regard these communities as a kind of political weapon? The most important question, Prime Minister, is why, if it is really important for you to address the causes of migration, you do not act against the most important causes of climate change and environmental destruction, and if you no longer act, why do you prevent this work from being done more effectively at European Union level, thus addressing the key causes of migration through tackling the effects of climate change. Thank you very much for your reply in advance.
u2020-12-14-82	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-83	From what I hear, it's two different issues. I would like to inform you that no one in Hungary can buy a right of establishment for money. I want this to be the starting point for our conversation. You can't buy settlements in Hungary for money. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Yes it could be!]] You can't stay, you can't settle down. As regards the other question, what is the right Hungarian policy towards Turkey, you are right to say that the Turkish President sometimes threatens Europe by allowing millions of migrants and refugees into Europe. He can do that because he has them, you know. He's got them. If you think well, so you would think from a Hungarian perspective, then perhaps we should start by thanking Turkey and its President for keeping them with you so far, and I hope that you will keep these people with you longer than you would let them into Europe. Europe will also need to make sure that Turkey is shaped in such a way that what we are all afraid of does not happen by accident. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-84	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the word to the leader of the group a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. And what do you think of the Turkish President's statement that I have just mentioned to you on the question of calling on the Turkish minority in Europe not to be integrated? I think that this is completely contrary to Christian Europe, as you say, its values and the interests of Christian Europe. But, Prime Minister, you have not referred back to what I have asked you on this issue, that your most important task in relation to migration is both at national level and at European Union level and globally, one of the most important challenges is to combat the effects of climate change. You know very well, Prime Minister, that if we do not take any real action, and we could act now, tens of millions of people will lose their living space because of the lack of drinking water, because of the reduction in the potential for agricultural production. To combat this, therefore, the causes of migration, and to address the main causes behind migratory pressure, can only be dealt with in cooperation and in European cooperation, which is usually vetoed by you, so that we can achieve more ambitious targets against climate change. Referring back to the debate before the agenda, I would like to say, Prime Minister, that we will be partners on this issue, but the LMP does not support the idea of the European United States to which you referred. Please, Prime Minister, answer this question as to why you do not act to address the causes of migration.
u2020-12-14-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-87	I am pleased to hear, my fellow Member, that you do not support the idea of the European United States, but you have asked for this list, which is led by those who, on the other hand, very much support it. In fact, he didn't ask me to, and they squinted up along with the Jobbiks. You will all go up to the list that that man will lead, or will be led by the candidate of the man whose most important election programme for the country is to make European united states. You will sit on that list and you will represent what the list announces as a programme. So it's nice to have a personal resistance, and I appreciate that, but I think you might be a little late. Now they're in the bag, if you like, they're grinded and loaded into this Soros sausage, which we'll all get to know as Ferenc Gyurcsány's list. You're gonna be sitting there, my good-looking friends, dear LMPs, dear Dialogue, all of you on that joint list. I would like to congratulate you on that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-88	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: What is going on? It's an address. You've got the floor, ma'am.
u2020-12-14-89	Prime Minister, speaking of sneaking. József Szájer said that two days before he found out that he was at a drug-related mass sex party, from which he fled the police naked on an eavesdropping channel, he resigned from his EP mandate because he was emotionally tired. Then it turned out that József Szájer, the author of your Fundamental Law, had lied because he resigned because of a drug sex party. Of course, not because he regrets living like this, but because he's caught. [[16.10]] You have said, and you have repeated this, that the conduct that József Szájer has done cannot be included in the values of our political community. Prime Minister, tell us honestly that you knew that József Szájer has not lived according to and according to the Fundamental Law for forty years, according to the Christian-Conservative values that he has or did not know. Did you know that Szájer was living that way, or did you find out after this scandal, Prime Minister? Thank you for your answer.
u2020-12-14-90	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-91	I must say that I am surprised to see that we have a fellow Member, even if it is a lady, I am sorry if what I am saying seems rude, who has no idea not only of the Hungarian constitution, but of the essence of the Hungarian constitutional order. For the Hungarian Constitution does not tell anyone, no Hungarian person is told by the Hungarian Constitution how to live. You read it wrong. Hungary is a free country, and everyone lives the way they see fit. There is no provision in the Constitution for this. I would like to remind you that Hungary is a rule of law where there is freedom, and all people are free to decide what they regard as good and what they regard as bad, and when they decide to do so, they take responsibility for it. That's what we're dealing with here. I'm gonna say this again: what doesn't fit can't, so you have to leave at this time. What has to be done has to be done. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-92	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-14-93	Prime Minister, I'm not going to go along with the fact that you've been digging into other people's bedrooms for the past ten years. [[An uproar from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And among other things, let's say gay couples are about to be banned from adopting children. So don't tell me what you allow and what you don't, because no one in Hungary has ever pursued a policy that is more exclusive than you. You cannot answer a simple question: did you know that József Szájer lived or did you not know about it? But the thing is, you're lying, you've failed an epidemic, you've failed an economic treatment. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] He failed to preach Christian-Conservative morality. The author of their own Fundamental Law couldn't live the way you put it. Prime Minister, I'd like to give you a...
u2020-12-14-94	Congresswoman!
u2020-12-14-95	... certificate, this is what you deserve...
u2020-12-14-96	Refrain from the illustration.
u2020-12-14-97	...all of them, you failed everything... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2020-12-14-98	Congresswoman, refrain from the illustration. I'm warning you again. Again, I warn you to refrain. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer... [[In the hands of Szabó Timea, he goes with the illustration device to Viktor Orbán.]] Congresswoman, I'd like to ask you to stay where you are. [[Szabó Timea takes the document to the table of Viktor Orbán, which Máté Orbán Kocsis wants to take away from him by entering the table of Viktor Orbán. Szabó Timea then places the document on Dr. Zsolt Semjén's desk.]] Congresswoman, if you'd like to sit down, I warn you, this is your last warning. Dear Parliament, Of course, I will take the necessary measures. Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[Constant interruptions from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, we can talk about the fact that now that I was listening to you, it seemed more like the question had failed, which I couldn't find either the beginning or the end. I have one answer for you: not only do you not recognize the Constitution, I apologize once again for having to confront you so brutally with this fact, but I do not see that you know that the law that Tibor Draskovics presented here in 2008 applies to homosexual people in Hungary, and we have not changed that. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would therefore like to tell you that Hungary is a country that, with the full weight of the Constitution, supports the freedom and lifestyle of people. We may and may have opinions on different life management practices, but also those in Hungary who belong to a minority or to a minority of lifestyles can fully exercise their rights in the Constitution, and I will therefore not support any proposal that would want to restrict it or withdraw it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Szabó Timea is leaving the Chamber. Interjections, murmuring in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell. Szabó Timea: I'm staying, but time's up, isn't it?]]
u2020-12-14-100	Fellow Members! [[It's a lot of noise. Ringing:]] Fellow Members! What I ask of you, my fellow members of the Government, is that we do not want to go to the level where we were just by the Member. Thank you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. Who is the lad on the dam? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is a pity that Congresswoman Szabó has gone out because we are talking about a case involving her party allies, because there is no stopping on the slope: after the cocaine scandal in Kispest, the electricity theft or the Christmas bus-poo, smoking is here. Zsolt Legány, who runs the MSZP's ethics committee, what else can he drive anyway? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On Thursday, the Hungarian-Ukrainian border was shut down, the trunk of his car was full of cigarettes, which he said he didn't know, he was just there. In addition, he told the border guards that he had lied to the consul of Beregszás, that he had done this in order to get away with customs checks. Since Gábor Simon and the passports in Guinea-Bissau, we know that the left-wing people have a special relationship with passports, but the good news is that Zsolt Legény, unlike Csaba Lackner, has at least been recognized. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] When Zsolt Legény told me in 2014 where is the tobacco? At the time, we did not know that he was so involved in the matter. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The question is, since Ferenc Gyurcsány is united in accordance with his intentions and we can see with our own eyes the entire left side, and yet the question arises, Mr. Secretary of State, how many more Zsolt Legény has diplomatic passports, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will do anything to prevent such Zsolt Legény from having a diplomatic passport and would like to review the order of issuing diplomatic passports. I do not rule out, knowing the multitude of cases listed above and the left-wing mechanisms, that Zsolt Legény would be alone with this sin, nor would I rule out that others would abuse it. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-102	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister of State Levente Magyar. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The first thought that comes out of man about the discovery of Congressman Bachelor is certainly not of surprise, because we have always known that the left, where and whenever he can, is stealing, cheating and lying. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] What is new in comparison is that the MSZP's national ethical council has been able to concentrate these three practices into a single act in this case. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In this respect, it is certainly a performance to be used, but we are not surprised. The first thought, on the other hand, was rather the realization that the left couldn't be much trouble over there either. The political and spiritual ancestors of the united left were Károlyi, Kun, Rákosi, Kádár, to mention only the biggest ones on a larger field. With their leadership, the left has embezzled bigger things than a few Ukrainian cigarettes: a whole country, a whole country's wealth, and a whole country's freedom more than once. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Compared to this, a few thousand boxes of Ukrainian cigarettes are a steep layoff. Could it be that the great left-wing collapsing watered down the old virtues? It might be a good idea to think about that, and I'm sure you'll be able to analyze that. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Who gave the passport?]] The united Hungarian left has not been in the position to continue the mental and financial looting of Hungary for ten years now, so it has been a cigarette smuggler. It is not worthy of the left-wing criminal history of this petty crime. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On the other hand, it is abundant enough to make it clear again to an entire country: you are still stealing, but you are still stealing it in a small way. Obviously, Congressman, we will review the order in which diplomatic passports are issued, and we will tie it to strict national security controls in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-104	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the leader of the group. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2020-12-14-105	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. Not only am I looking forward to this, but a lot of our fellow countrymen, and we do have great hopes for it, but I must add in a hurry that I should not have asked you this question, but the President of the Socialist Party, who, to be stylish, did not give a damn about this matter. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And I also didn't see the news in the left-wing media about that. Be careful, because you can rewind a kilometer in Ukraine, according to my information, it's possible that the next case will explode from there. What's comforting is that so far, we knew the left was carrying the dough, but now we can see that he's bringing it. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2020-12-14-107	Honourable Congressman, I gave the substance of the answer in the previous comment. Now, perhaps I would just like to point out one aspect, if Zsolt Legény and the MSZP already have such excellent connections in Ukraine, then instead of smuggling cigarettes, they might be able to act in the interest of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia in Ungvár, Kiev and in the cities where the looting of this minority is decided, and from which cities the attacks, those unprecedented attacks on the Hungarian minority are now taking place on a series of occasions, which we are witnessing. I propose to the MSZP that it should be more concerned with national policy if it visits Transcarpathia and not with other acts that fall within this issue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-108	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, Head of the Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How does the Government reduce the effects of the economic crisis, while left-wing authorities wanted to make people pay for the losses of the crisis? It's an address. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the pandemic started in spring is taking its victims worldwide, Hungarian doctors, nurses, health workers show superhuman performance, heroic standing, and while the government is doing its best to obtain as quickly and as safe as possible, non-complicated vaccines as possible, while left-wing authorities are doing what they are doing: applying restrictions, introducing tax and fee increases, reporting drastic withdrawals, doing so in a series of left-handed municipalities. So they did in Budapest, in the V. district, in the VII. in district VIII, in the 11th district. in the 15th district, in the district of Miskolc, Eger, Ózdon, Gyöngyös, Vácott, Baja, and I could still tell you that left-wing municipalities are introducing restrictions or intend to expand this. It is clear that left-wing crisis management has always meant, and today in particular, that they want to burden losses on the population and local businesses. I would like to mention a specific example, my fellow Members, the DK mayor of Újbuda, Imre László, who is the great polyhistor of the name of public spaces, we remember that he was a Hitler at the time, obviously as a practitioner of good left-wing dogma, in the middle of the epidemic, he wishes to apply the tax squeeze which represents an unprecedented 30 percent increase in the land tax and the construction tax, I must say. And I think that when we see how the government saves jobs, of course we also see that, in recent times, while the government has created 800 000 jobs, we have also managed to create two jobs in NewBuda. This increased the two-person deputy mayor's seat to four, so there are four sub-Mayors instead of two, and he also decided to give Csaba Czeglédy the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány with a greasy contract. So, with all due respect, I would ask that these left-wing government-led austerity packages should be blocked: what does the government do against left-wing austerity, what further economic protection measures are expected from the government in the future? Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, As you have said, there are two attitudes, two creeds: the current governor Fidesz-KDNP, who has been sworn to tax reductions since 2010 and has been doing so, while left-wing governments, but not just governments, are currently sworn to raise taxes. Any problems, difficulties in the country or in a settlement, the answer to that, the solution is to raise taxes, collect more money from people, businesses, and solve the problem. This is not what Fidesz believes, but the policy of tax reduction, which has proved in the last ten years, because we are the first half of the European Union in terms of our economic performance, and it is because we dared to reduce taxes even if there is a crisis, even if there is a problem, because we have encouraged businesses, people, to produce more. Unfortunately, as Mr. Group leader said, the country must be protected now, and that is why the government has issued a decree in the emergency situation that the tax increase and the municipal tax increase will not apply from 1 January 2020. The government will do everything in its power not to allow local governments and left-wing self-governments to raise taxes without necks, and to respond to the crisis in such a way that people and businesses are re-injured. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-112	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the word to the leader of the group a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-113	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We do see that, in the midst of the pandemic, left-wing governments are carrying out bus dogs, smuggling cigarettes, stealing electricity, and implementing these programs instead of helping people. This is truly outrageous. Pest is basically believed to be the VII. in the district, the trolleybuses are already running without overhead lines, because the DK municipal representatives stole the power. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This must be put to an end, and it must really help the government to defend itself, help people to recover as many as possible, and not catch the virus, and obviously, if the systemic transfer of vaccines to people begins, this will certainly bring about a safe future. It is very important, Mr State Secretary, that we do not give in to left-wing city leadership, where they want to raise taxes, they want to introduce fees. I'm asking the government, through you, not to give in to this pressure. It is very important that we continue to be with the people; people clearly see that they can count on the government and that they cannot count on left-wing governments. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, You have also given me a bad, left-wing municipal example, I would like to give you the example of the Municipality of Budapest, the richest Hungarian government, because the capital has received 217 billion in debt consolidation, and by the end of 2014. In the third quarter of 2020, the sovereign debt of the Municipality of Budapest amounted to HUF 134 billion! , and its funds by the end of the third quarter are 90.1 billion. The capital has more than HUF 200 billion in funds, but the mayor says that taxes should be raised in the capital; tax increases, and thus completely destroys the Hungarian government's economic policy, which is the opposite, because if taxes are raised in the capital, it is true for the entire country. We will not allow it, and the capital's finances are fine, but we must not weep, but we must also farm in the capital! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-116	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Independent Member János Volner wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how far will he go in the rule of law and how long will the Government allow foreign-funded Hungarian-looking organisations to influence domestic public life, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2020-12-14-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, There's a lot of people here who would like to go to government with foreign help. Let's get them in line. Here are the Communists' successor parties, with two parliamentary factions. The extremist liberals are not here yet, but they are lobbying in Brussels to ensure that Hungary does not receive EU funding until they are elected. [[16.30]] Last but not least, here are the representatives of Hungarian public life that can be considered politically transgender [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] Those who don't even know if they're boys or girls, even if they say they're right-wing, they want to make an election alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány. (Development in the pro-government ranks. ) Prime Minister! Wouldn't you think it absurd that social organisations that help liberal politics to grow by all means receive more foreign support than the majority of Hungarian parties receiving state aid? Don't you think that's an absurd question? The other question is that we ban this harmful practice, which I have personally been fighting for years to eliminate, and what I do now note is that in 2016, Jobbik's Deputy President, Márton Gyöngyösi, submitted to Parliament a proposal to eradicate Soros organisations, a year later, a conference with the people of George Soros in Brussels, but I remained in favour of the original position, banning foreign funding for these organisations, or so on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's grumpy.]]
u2020-12-14-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[It's ringing. Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: 30 pieces of silver!]] Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a feeling of Déjà vu: there were years when you could hear voices like that from that corner. I'm sorry I have to answer to the last of the Mohicans. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] But the situation seems to be more serious than what you said, because for the sake of Jobbik, or what is left of Jobbik, and here the person of Mr Gyöngyösi is particularly important, the left has invented progressive anti-Semitism. It is a progressive anti-Semite who hates our government more than his fellow Jewish countrymen, and if he is like that, he will be accepted; it is true that many of Jobbik will be on the list of the MSZP, DK. And the best example and proof of that is precisely our fellow Member of Gyöngyösi, who you quoted here, who stood against me and said that the representatives of Jewish origin should be listed, and now his accepted, celebrated politician on the left. This progressive anti-Semitism, thanks to the left. By the way, I wish that the right and the Christian democracy in Hungary would be strong enough to protect the Jewish community in Hungary under these conditions, so that there would not be any harm from what they have done here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-120	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-121	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I always thought that a representative on the national side would always support the government when it acted in the interests of the country. So we did when the socialists were still ruling, and we led another movement called the Hungarian Guard, in a flood situation we ordered the Guardists to the dams, and we tried to help everywhere our country needed us. We did the same in the debate on the rule of law: we supported the government, because it was about the sovereignty of our country and its protection. However, I must draw your attention to the importance of the use of words. Prime Minister, your party consistently mistakenly called the sovereignty debate a debate on the rule of law. Political narratives can be effectively trained by those who take care of the exact use of words, have their own words and phrases, and consistently represent them in the defense of their country. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I advise you to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-123	Congressman! Thank you for reminding us that there have been and remain many differences of opinion between us, and it would not be right for us to hide it, because we are a civil Christian Democratic party, and you are a national radical, or I don't know what the right word is, a direction. They are colliding on a number of points, and this is likely to remain the case in the future, but I am pleased that there is a need for a minimum or a common basis abroad for the national interest on your side or on your part, which I will also try to support. But your question is extremely difficult, and I have no good news for you. I agree with the assessment of the situation that there are a number of organisations funded from abroad in Hungary, which no one has chosen, but wants to talk about the development of Hungarian politics. Unfortunately, we have not been able to introduce legislation against such agency organisations in Hungary, which is known in America, because the European Court of Justice has unfortunately not accepted it. We should have been helped by the American rule, but unfortunately, the European Court of Justice did not accept it. Now we have a few weeks to figure out what new rules we're going to introduce instead. One thing I can tell you: I know a man who is more impatient about the outcome than you are about me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2020-12-14-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Allow me to talk about an increasing concern that Hungarians are interested in. People are concerned that if the figures are as they are now, we will certainly look at quarantine Christmas, but they also regard it as worrying, and that is why we can really be concerned that based on data from the last two weeks, so based on data from 14 days, we can only prevent Slovenia and Bulgaria, unfortunately, in terms of cumulative deaths for 100 thousand people, so that Hungarian people are still in serious danger. The third worst data for the Union and for the European countries is ours. People are also concerned that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has allowed the virus to dictate the pace in the autumn, and it seems that we are paying the price now, and the country is barely able to do so now. But perhaps they are most concerned about it, and are most concerned about the fact that it is not possible to know the reason for the additional mortality that occurred in the first week of November, because, in the first week of November, at week 47, the worst mortality data of the last five years have been reported, and unfortunately, the figures do not come out: if the corona virus data and mortality data are counted, there will still be such a significant death, the death of about 500 people in one week, which cannot be known. By the way, this figure is the worst figure, compared to the average of past periods, i.e. an increase of 52 per cent compared to the previous period, week 47. Mr. Secretary. I'm assuming you know exactly why this extra death was. It is time, and now you have the opportunity to tell us how hundreds of people died in Hungary at week 47 and the weeks after that, if not in a coronal virus, because these are outstanding data and worrying data that must be answered. I think you know the answer, and now it's time for you to tell me. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-14-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kasler. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-12-14-127	Mr President, Dear House, The congressman asked me about the numbers. There are several types of numbers: there is a number of infected people, from the first infection to today; there is another sequence of numbers that apply to everyday infected people, and they can be added together; there is an active number of infected people, which means how many of all the infected are cured and how many can be considered infected at a given moment. If we compare these numbers, the situation in Hungary is as follows. Several times, the number of people who died was said, and the Member asked the same question. At the moment, the European average is 690, 713 inhabitants in Hungary. I liked to ask the number of infected: this is 2869, and the EU average is 2928. If you want to ask how much total mortality was in Hungary in different years, then you can see that at this moment, today, the average annual mortality was just over time this year. It was only one year when the mortality rate was higher than this year. [[16.40]] I could mention a lot of other figures in this regard, but in summary, I can say that in the last two or three weeks, the pandemic has significantly affected Hungarian mortality data. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-128	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-129	Mr. Minister, don't be angry with me, I'm going to put it a little more sharply: I asked you that the 500 deaths that took place in the first week of November, in the black week, were due to extra mortality. That's what I'm curious about. I know the rest of the data. Minister, you may not be trusted with much of the health care, because the Ministry of the Interior has arranged for the doctors' new legislation, the Ministry of the Interior manages the lives of hospitals, but at least tell us why these data are available. People are interested, and even if the next set of data from the KSH comes out and the same numbers are in it, people will be even more concerned about how people die, how 500 people die in Hungarian hospitals. We'd like to know because we want to be clear. And by the way, you're gonna have to answer one more thing about what it was about, maybe because you missed a doctor-patient meeting. And how we can make up for that surplus so that we don't have to take it any further, and we don't ever have to have families who don't know what they have to lose their next of kin. Minister, I ask you again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What's the difference, tell me. The data you know, it's your responsibility, and you take responsibility for telling us what it's made of. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-130	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-131	I consider your personal remarks to be part of your rhetorical attempts, not the luckiest selection. The mortality data is serious, I gave you an absolutely serious answer. I told you that the average mortality and total mortality in Hungary until early November was the best year of the year. It's very clear that since the first week of November, what you've been asking systematically is that the number of infected people, their death, has affected the data. That's all I can tell you. Look at the data on the KSH, look at the various statistics, it's as accessible to you as it is to anyone. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I know him, that's why I asked!]] Take your time. It's Advent, I wish you depth, and think about what you were wrong about. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-132	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Prime Minister! There are many current issues nowadays, but I do not want to deal with the veto or what happened in Brussels, and I want to deal with what is the most recent in Hungary today. The most recent, because we have lost more than 7,000 of our compatriots in the last few weeks, and the vast majority of them in the last few weeks; current, because 283,000 of our compatriots are officially shown to have caught the infection, but we all know that this is more like a million in real life. Prime Minister, although my fellow Member Gurmai has asked you two or three very specific questions, you are a professional, but I must say that you have avoided answering them all again in an unacceptable way, so I would ask Prime Minister very simply, without any party policy bullshit or mud-slapping, who is responsible for the defense, according to the regulation: why are you refusing to give 100 percent sick money for at least 90 days of emergency to people who have proven to be infected with a coronal virus or direct contact, so that they do not have to take the sick way to work or reduce their pay? Two: Prime Minister, you would be willing to have 133 brave people around you, and you will have one push of a button on our proposal for once here in the Advent period of vowing that anyone who loses their job this year because of the coronal virus epidemic and raises children into those families before Christmas will be given a one-off HUF 50,000 per child so that they can celebrate with minimal dignity. I look forward to your reply, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-134	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-135	The system is very clear: if you get sick, you get sick and you get 60 percent of your salary. If you claim that you got this infection while you were working, you can get the missing 40 percent in an administrative procedure. That's how the system works. So whoever gets the infection while they're at work can get the missing 40 percent. We do not accept that you only want to extend this to certain social groups. I never understood why the masons wouldn't get it then, because they're covering for each other, getting the same infection. Physical workers, even the hardest workers, can infect one another. We cannot narrow this group down to some social groups or give it to everyone or give it to no one. Therefore, today we have the system to give to everyone, but in a separate procedure this 40 percent must be launched. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-136	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-137	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, your answer was frightening because you are not aware of the fundamental facts. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] One, you won't give it up, the government offices won't handle it, the teachers won't get it since September. Two: our proposal is, Prime Minister, and then we may be able to come to a common denominator, and they will override the attitude that they have done this morning, that in the committee where we should have put our proposal on the agenda, the Fidesz Members have not gone, so that everyone who is certified to be infected with a coronal virus, no matter where he works, Prime Minister, and without any further justification, has a certificate, a coronal virus infection or contact, he will receive 100 percent of the sick. This is not the case today, Prime Minister, and we do not see such an intention on your part. Second of all, he didn't respond to what I asked. And I believe that you will have a merry Christmas, and that everyone will be happy to give their children and grandchildren the same amount of gifts and love [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I want you to understand that hundreds of thousands of people in this country aren't like that. And if there's anything you can do for him, be kind enough to do for him. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What do you do? It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-12-14-138	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-12-14-139	The kind of setting that the virus would only plague left-wing families and not our community is a misunderstanding. So to say that we're gonna have a good Christmas while the country is having a bad, malicious misunderstanding. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Exactly!]] Or a malicious lie. People die in our families, our families have people in the hospital, and the virus doesn't choose who's left or right. So the approach that you're trying to make us believe that it's easy for us and it's hard for everyone else. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Financially!]] I think it's a dirty lie. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Financially easy, Prime Minister.]] Plus, I have to repeat it once again, after my previous failed attempt, I see an explanation of what the system is. So if you go on sick leave, you get 60 percent of your salary. And if you think you've got the coronal virus infection in connection with your workplace or work, you're gonna start a procedure in the administrative office and you're gonna get the missing 40 percent; 60 plus 40, that's 100. You can be right, and I think you're right, that the procedure could be simpler and could be faster. We're on it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-140	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that, in the course of the debate on immediate questions, the Prime Minister and the ladies and gentlemen of the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person. [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] I would ask my fellow Members to do so quietly. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Do you believe that the fundamental law of Fidesz has become completely uncredited?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-141	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. A few days ago, both the country and the Fidesz voters knew the burden of the man who put your Fundamental Law together in a train journey; the Fundamental Law which the Democratic Coalition never accepted as legitimate. József Szájer wrote this on his own computer, the József Szájer, with his backpack hiding drugs from an illegal drug group sex orgy. [[16.50]] Their imagination is obvious, Mr. Secretary. You live in a very different way than what you preach, or what you force people to do and expect them to do. Mr. Secretary. You know that the majority of Hungary, the Democrats, have been rejected by this Party State Fundamental Law. Since there are no two Fidesz, with this cover-up, they've all become discredited more than once. You want to tell us in a law written down by a man who is the father and who is the mother, and what family and Christianity mean, who has lived and acted the opposite of everything. And since he is neither the first nor the last to be expected, so your feeling, your feeling, can be nothing but that you will never again speak of Christian values or the sanctity of a family, created by the unity of a man and a woman. You're busted, you've failed, Mr. Secretary. Cancel the amendment of your law, it doesn't make any sense, because the next Democratic government is going to give the country a new constitution. I am asking you, will you stop supplementing and modifying the Fundamental Law with further outrages, Mr. Secretary of State? Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-12-14-142	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-12-14-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You have a party president named Ferenc Gyurcsány, who recently gave an interview to a news portal called Telex, in which he said when asked about József Szájer, that he had resigned, maybe he had resigned from Fidesz, and from then on he was a private person, not a politician. I don't want to hurt József Szájer as a private person, and as a politician, I don't have anything to do with him anymore. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Interview from KDNP lines: Oops!]] So you're a pack that Ferenc Gyurcsány let go on his journey as a dog with csah, that practically a political opponent who assessed what Prime Minister said to a similar question recently, that our values can't fit into the behavior, the act that he did. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Can you fit in for 30 years?]] He'd cut the consequences and resigned, quit the Fidesz. I'm asking you what else you want from him. He practically apologized, and not only to Fidesz, but also to his constituents, to his family, whom he could, if necessary, may, I suppose, include himself in this circle, and then gave satisfaction to the political community to which he belonged, by giving up all his duties, he resigned from the political community. I could now give examples of your side of who meets this requirement in a similar situation. It has also been said here that the MSZP seems to be in charge of tobacco, DK is in charge of bitcoin mining, you may know this better than former BITs, or are closer to you. [[Defiance.]] So I can keep making jokes. Get off József Szájer! As a private person, I wish you would somehow process this story and get along as well as you can. If you have a different opinion, I understand. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-144	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-145	Dear Secretary of State, I need more attention from you. I do not have a problem with József Szájer, and it was not about him, but about the hypocrisy that you and his former community are doing in this country. They claim otherwise in the Fundamental Law than they do in the way they live. It would be a cheap joke if I started to tell you what happened in Győr, what happened on the yacht. I could tell you what they were talking about, and on the plane, what pictures people, the police, would find, and how they would rescue the man who was otherwise found involved in such a crime. So, Mr. Secretary of State, the story is that you are hypocrites, to whom no authorization or acquittal can be given because you say otherwise and do something completely different. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-12-14-146	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Again, I say that I am sorry that you did not spend the last few minutes taking due account of the fact that the Hungarian Fundamental Law guarantees everyone's right to privacy. If, in addition, a person commits an act which is illegal or illegal, he shall be liable. In this case, too, without being held accountable, the conclusions have been deducted by the perpetrator. If we were to follow your line of thought, we might as well go to homophobia. Then they could say that Pasolini could not have made the Gospel of Matthew, or that Oscar Wilde's literary work had to be questioned, or even in any other artistic field, because they too lived at an age when standards and morals were different. So if we follow this line of thought, then you practically didn't realize what freedom the Fundamental Law is and what guarantees it gives Hungarian people to live their lives the way they want to. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-148	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is more important? It's an address. Minister, in response to your absence, you have authorized Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-12-14-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A national public education infrastructure development programme was launched in 2014, where gymnasiums, classrooms and school schools were built for educational institutions in Hungary. In 2015, the program became the responsibility of the Ministry of National Development, consisting of 78 projects with a total value of HUF 38.7 billion. According to the data received from the EMMI, 71 of these investments were made by August 2020. On 9 December, I read a decree in the Hungarian Gazette, but this is one of the ones that aroused my interest, and this is that the Premontre Abbey of Gödöllő receives more than HUF 3.3 billion for investment in faith and public education, which is positive, because every investment that is made in a settlement and that makes the settlement evolve is definitely good. On the other hand, there is a Alfréd Hajós Primary School, which has 670 students, and its building has had serious static problems for a very long time: 12 years ago it was planned to be renovated. László Eich considered it very important to carry out this investment. This would otherwise have been done in an area offered by a municipality, and a completely new building would have been built. It was a priority goal, but unfortunately, the leader was replaced and negotiations should start again. One of my questions is why negotiations need to be restarted when we are talking about replacing the head of the district, who is not chosen by the municipality, or that the school has become state-reserved, of course, the state is obliged to maintain and renovate it. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your question, Congresswoman. Dear House, It is good that you mentioned the national public education infrastructure development programme, because in general we hear only those sentences from the opposition that the government steals all the money here and spends nothing on education and health. It has already been said that we spent a thousand billion forints more on health care this year, because in order to control the epidemic, we needed such costs in addition to the basic health costs, and there is indeed this programme, which will deliver some kind of educational development in 940 locations out of 350 billion forints across the country. This is a total of 214 projects; the construction of 51 new school hotels, since we said that there should be swimming pools in every district, no matter where you are born, you should have the chance to learn swimming in the swimming pool within the district, 87 new classroom development, 44 expansion and 31 new school and 1 kindergarten development from this program. This year, until November, 77 projects were handed over, 21 new school hotels, 25 new gymnasiums, 21 schools with new classrooms, 1 kindergarten was renewed and 5 completely new schools were built. In addition to these, 6 cities have asked for high-quality public education development, school renovation, modernization, school building. [[17.00]] In addition, the EFOP projects managed by EMMI between 2014-20 will have an additional HUF 128 billion development in schools, and even 693 school buildings or college buildings can be renovated and modernised from energy applications, 452 of which are already complete. Usually this means external renovation, window replacements, roof renovations. In addition, the state grants support to church supporters; you mentioned the Premontres. There are several orders that have traditionally maintained schools and schools in Hungary for hundreds of years. We also provide support to church schools, and obviously after a need assessment [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We go from school to school within the districts, as resources can be used continuously. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-152	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-153	Thank you very much. Then did I understand from the last sentence that the Alfréd Boat School has the opportunity to renew itself or to build a new building? I understand that there are serious concerns, because this is a good school, a good school, which receives students from the entire district and achieves very good results. And both parents and educators have serious concerns, for there have been times when the building had to be snuggled under. When do you see a chance that, if more, how long will it take for all public schools with such problems to be able to renew in addition to the construction of swimming pools? I mean, you don't have to hand over the school to the church to the state to be renovated and to be treated as a special priority project, do you? Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I have a rejoinder for the Deputy Minister, and before I give the floor, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-12-14-155	We're listening, Mr. Secretary. In return, you have the floor.
u2020-12-14-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The problems you have mentioned have obviously not occurred in the last seven years. Since 2013, the state has been the maintainer of schools, and the operation only took place years later, so it only lasts four to five years. Before that, these schools worked in municipal maintenance and operation. In Hungarian, we try to remedy problems in state reserve that could not be remedied in municipal reserve. This also shows why it was important, even for a settlement as well-conditioned as Gödöllő, to have a state reservation, because otherwise it would not be possible for renovations that you say are necessary. The first stages of the National Public Education Infrastructure Development Programme, as you pointed out, were published in the Gazette. These developments are carried out in a completely transparent manner, and can be added at the next stage, as they were introduced at the previous stage, as well as a separate tender scheme for renovations of a smaller amount and a larger amount of EU funding in the previous period. I don't know, there's this school on the reserve list, she's submitted a tender. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But obviously, we will also strive to use these resources in the coming years, which is why it is important that last week the Prime Minister has won in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Katalin Novak posted a video today, where, to say the least, he is very unfortunate about women's equality. Unfortunately, these terms are not far from the Fidesz government. When Viktor Orbán was asked about the appointment of a female ambassador not so long ago, he just said that he did not care about women's affairs. And I could put on a list of similar fidestic terms that underestimate women. Now Katalin Novak is giving women advice on what not to do. As he puts it, for example, do not believe that you have to pay at least as much as men do. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know, you know, according to Eurostat, women in Hungary have more than 14 percent less hourly than men. With such blatant injustices, you should say the opposite to a family minister. But the problem with that is that anyone who listens to this sentence, a young, talented woman listens to this sentence, then this sentence tells her to accept that even though she is talented, she works a lot, if she brings home less than a man, it's okay, because she's a woman, in fact, it's okay, just accept it. Dear Secretary of State, That sentence ruins the dream of hundreds of thousands of young, talented women. Dear Secretary of State, What does the government think of this statement? Are you going to take this video off, correct this unfortunate statement? And does the government ensure that women will strive in the future to avoid any discrimination between women and men? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-12-14-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-12-14-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You now come up with an alliance and with your party in a company, in recent years you have been in the capital and in the countryside in many places, the leader of which is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has played a fantastic role today, and you should first of all ask him that he has already apologized for talking about the ladies, the wives and the old wives who should be replaced. I would also ask him, if I were you, that when the European Union list was drawn up by the Left, he said to some of the Members, who are also here today, that they are not competing in a beauty contest, that we would move others to do so. How did you get involved with this? And how do you feel about the fact that, when we voted on the 40" pension for women, which, by the way, I must say that a very large part of society is absolutely positive, it is absolutely supportive, not only that you did not support it, but that you voted against it, and even that you are constantly criticizing it. And to talk about the facts in the sense that you say, compared to the way your current ally, with whom you are connected everywhere, has reduced the difference between income and action between men and women. This is precisely the important step that this government has taken over the years, and if you continue to do so, in the second part of my answer, I will say specific things that you have not done. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-161	Thank you very much, Secretary Soltes. The congressman has a rejoinder. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-12-14-162	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You didn't answer my question. So I was not asking about the statement of Gyurcsány or any other statement, but I was asking about the statement of Katalin Novák. What do you think of this statement? This was supposed to be an opportunity to clarify that statement, but instead he's delirious. But at least in the video, the spelling errors are fixed, if you please, because they're in there. Dear Secretary of State, On average, women receive 68,000 forints less per month this is a 2019 KSH survey than men. That should be the case, and not the unacceptable appearances. And the problem is that, in your policy, women are basically portrayed primarily as a social actor who gives birth to children, and they are not trying to eliminate wage differences. On the other hand, the Dialogue tells all women that they are worth as much as men, and they can earn as much as men, and indeed! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-12-14-163	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2020-12-14-164	I'll continue the line. It was your new ally, and it was that company, and so the whole left is guilty of whether the child or the child was taken away or reduced, otherwise it was taken away from mothers with children who raised their children alone. The same is true of the fact that the family tax relief was either completely abolished in some families, or it was not intended for them to give or give to them in a very small way. [[17.10]] By the way, you are the ones who do not want to support the help that we are doing to make family mothers with four children fully tax-free. And I could go on with all the support, the many, many steps that Minister Katalin Novák, who has been criticized by you, has taken and led over the last few years, which all proves that both women and young people do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All mothers are important to our community. You are the ones who have not supported it in the past or in the past. [[The president's ringing again.]] Now, not in the present, either. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Sándor Szabó takes his place as notary.]]
u2020-12-14-165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "Always against the Hungarians?" It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Pál Völner has given him the right to reply. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2020-12-14-166	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent years, the MEPs of the Hungarian left have been constantly working to make Hungary as difficult as possible. In Brussels, the EU has often been called upon to take away EU funds for Hungarian people and even to impose penalties on our country. We remember that they failed to prevent Hungary from receiving one of the most influential wallets in the Commission, the expansion wallet, and this spring, when the country fought with the first wave of the coronal virus, they lied to everyone that the Hungarian Parliament was closed and that it did not work. In recent weeks, more powerful attacks have been carried out against the Hungarian people than ever before, but they have failed again this time. Hungary won. Since its entry into the European Parliament, the campaign against Hungary has been led by the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev. In recent weeks, Facebook has launched a discrediting campaign against Hungary, where it falsely attacks the protection against the epidemic, as well as health workers who heroically struggle to save the Hungarian people. Dear House, It is interesting to see where the money comes from for this campaign against Hungary. In a small part, of course, from the family company DK, but to a large extent from Brussels. Yes, Facebook advertisements are financed two thirds from abroad. It's a lot of money. Mrs Gyurcsány spent an average of HUF 1 million a day on the campaign of lies last week. His embarrassing campaign and advertisements are financed by pro-immigration forces. This is not the first time Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife have made an alliance with the Soros network and attacked his own country. Klára Dobrev has also previously attacked the EU to give Hungary money for border protection, because he and the left would let immigrants in. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, there is no international attack against our country, which the Hungarian left would not gladly stand behind. What can be done about the campaign of slander on the left against Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Against? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2020-12-14-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I must say that there is nothing new under the sun: the left is not helping Hungarian people during the epidemic. In fact, we have seen the tricks they use to influence the European public, the EU's decision-making, to harm their own country. The fact that Klára Dobrev attacks the Hungarian government in such a way that the advertisement is not paid by Hungary, not by the Democratic Coalition, but by their foreign party family proves precisely that there is no international attack on the Government of Hungary to which Hungarian left-wing parties would not join. We live in such days that if anyone attacks Hungary from abroad, they will immediately find a partner on the Gyurcsányist left. This, on the one hand, is truly disappointing and, on the other hand, extremely harmful. The problem with our fellow left-wing Members is that they are still in the same position: no matter whether they have to adapt to Moscow, no matter whether they have to adapt to Brussels, whether they have to serve proletarian internationalism or globalism, they are always opposed to national interests to this day. At any international forum in Brussels, the European Parliament, they always try to convince everyone that Hungary must be suppressed, that Hungarian interests must not be abandoned. They're all the figures of George Soros, the puppet player. They are attacking the Hungarian government because it insists on national sovereignty, Christian roots and traditional family model. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that I should remind you once again that when the Hungarian Parliament made a decision in the summer that the government could not accept a budget in which this blackmail instrument was incorporated, the Hungarian government defended the Hungarians' benefits at last week's EU summit; Brussels could not force its political-ideological will to Hungary. This will remain so as long as the Hungarian people so want, and they will vote for such a government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-169	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond.
u2020-12-14-170	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. It is indeed a great achievement that common sense has won and that we have achieved results in Brussels. Right now, it is primarily the epidemic that needs to be dealt with, and money must be made available to countries in distress as quickly as possible, in particular. György Soros described four years ago that they should not grant budget support to countries that do not allow migrants to enter. Hungary does not allow migrants, which is why we are being attacked in Brussels, which is why the left is attacking us, and that is why György Soros is attacking us. It is a shame that, in the middle of the second wave of the corona virus epidemic, when the European economy is in great trouble, Brussels is busy with all kinds of played games. And even more shame is that Hungarian left-wing representatives are also partners in this game and are digging against their own country. But the point, my honourable fellow Member, honourable Secretary of State, is that we have won, the Hungarian people have won. György Soros shed crocodile tears and desperately tries to attack Hungary again and again. And the point is that the European Union has maintained its unity and won, and George Soros has lost, and it is time for the Europeans to finally send him home to America. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-12-14-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If it is true that Ferenc Gyurcsány, as you said, lied in the morning, at night and at night, we cannot expect much good from Klára Dobrev. We are well aware that the advertisement he gave stated that if Viktor Orbán and his government had not vetoed, the same way as in Poland, Hungarian families would receive an allowance of EUR 100 per month. This has been denied by our Polish friends since then, and the Union has nothing to do with this benefit. It belongs to family and family support measures there, and the Polish budget provides this resource. If we have to continue to face this degree of honesty, then voters must always be informed of this, so that we do not become victims of an ideological-political blackmail that Brussels wants to hit us with, and the parties of the left in Hungary, including their new allies, even the group called Jobbik, are partners in this. Hungary's sovereignty must not be subject to blackmail. It would be nice if everyone would stick to it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: In response to the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész authorized the Secretary of State to reply. You have the floor, Congressman István Hollik.
u2020-12-14-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Coronary virus epidemic and protection against it affect all areas of life, including public transport in Budapest. The protection against the epidemic here, in this case, means that the flights should be compressed, more precisely, in order to avoid mass scenes on the bus. At first, the city administration failed, since it began to thin the flights rather than doing the opposite. In bus transport, however, they couldn't, even if they wanted to, crowd flights, because it turns out that BKV didn't have enough buses for that. So they put out a public procurement to buy a bus, which turned out to be a nasty bus shit, because out of nowhere, a brave entrepreneurial company appeared, and as in fairy tales, he became the winner of nothing. Why do I say "out of nowhere"? 'Cause it turns out the company didn't exist when the public procurement was filed, it didn't have an employee, and it didn't have a bus. But if that wasn't enough, the company had an offshore background, and Kata Tüttő's former deputy mayor, Tamás Leisztinger, had an interest. It's obviously a coincidence. But the only thing that's left on the cake is that the company filed their application with false data, indicating fake bus chassis numbers in it. This was so embarrassing for Gergely Christmas that she said she wouldn't sign a contract with this company. The only problem with that statement was that it was a lie, because the contract was concluded a month ago. [[17.20]] But what's the outcome? The fact that it's been months with the bus dog turning into a tragicomedia, but the necessary buses are still nowhere to be found. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary, who is responsible for this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-175	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2020-12-14-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Clearly, the left-wing city leadership, no question, with their posh leader, Gergely Christmas in the lead. The fact is that the biggest corruption scandal in Europe was also linked to the left, even in the Demszky-era, in connection with the acquisition of the M4 metro. It was hardly possible to put that thing right, and then they were hysterical about why, at the time, Mr. Mayor Tarlós, he put that messed-up and catastrophic acquisition and a huge fraud. Why? Because it had to be done for the people of Budapest, and something had to be improved for the people of Budapest. And now this has happened in small, but it shows very well the direction of the Christmas Gregories who they follow; the same left follows the Demszky era. What did they do? In very short chronology, let me tell you. On April 28th, a tender will be launched, on May 11 a company will be set up, on May 17 will register in 6 days, in 7 days, and on May 25, three companies will submit the tender, and who will win it? The company which does not have an establishment, does not have any information about its shareholders, only 128 companies are registered in its registered office, the person entitled to contact the company has given its own e-mail address and thus wins the tender. Now, that's Gergely Christmas, and the whole left is right, because they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it, and they're in it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Coalition doesn't mean identity! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They laugh at that, but they ate you for breakfast, as a matter of fact, Ferenc Gyurcsány ate you. You can smile at it, laugh at it, but that's what happened to you, comrades of the better. But in return, Gergely Christmas said: My team must have incorruptible, spotless people. Well, that's the way the capital's running. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So in answer to your question, Gergely Christmas and the others are responsible. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-177	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a rejoinder, Congressman Hollik.
u2020-12-14-178	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. Indeed, the case is outrageous, even because it can be seen that the left-wing city leadership has been stalling for months, and the people of Budapest still do not see the necessary number of buses on the roads. But please calm down, everyone, we can all rest assured, because Gergely Christmas promised to investigate this embarrassing matter, and with this momentum, she entrusted the investigation to Kata Tüttő, who herself was involved in the matter. The typical case of the goat is the cabbage. The left gave me a number of evidence that they couldn't be expected in the fight against the virus, and this case fits into the line. After all, what does the left do during the virus? They make Kamuvideo, they steal electricity, they smuggle cigarettes, and even on the bus, left-wing entrepreneurs want to win. It would be good if the management of Budapest could finally solve this case instead of Facebooking, and the Hungarians rightly expect them to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-179	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2020-12-14-180	Thank you very much. I'm gonna follow Gergely Christmas because she's not a pussy, she's smart. That's good. So whoever's gonna let the guys who did this shit check out, that's the only thing you can say he's good at. Congratulations to them. He's in one of those messes, you're Gergely Christmas and all the lefts are right and everything, it's amazing. This whole story is amazing and terrible because, by the way, not only in the last ten years, but also in the next period, the capital could have the opportunity to be amazing. It hasn't been like this in decades. Car purchases are taking place or have taken place over the past 20 to 30 years, and it's all for the sake of the capital, and then there's a driver who doesn't know how to draw a line, they don't even know how to count, they know one thing about how to stuff their buddies' pockets, nothing else. This is not in the interest of the metropolitans, but in the interest of the left, who steal electricity, smuggle tobacco and so on, and so on, I could tell you about your petty affairs. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Minister? The Minister appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to answer his absence. You have the floor, Congressman Tibor Nunkovich.
u2020-12-14-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government often says how much they spend on crisis management, and I swear I don't want to go into this number war right now, but I recently published a call on my Facebook page, in which I expected people to share their experiences with me, how they are going to live this very difficult period in the face of the crisis and the epidemic. Obviously, in addition to the fact that many people have reported that they have lost their jobs or that they can only work on reduced working hours, many have said that unfortunately a significant part of their freedom has been lost this year, obviously without their own fault, because in the spring, or just this autumn, because of the epidemic, companies have had fewer orders, and that freedom, a significant part of paid leave, or who has already had almost all of it with employees. Therefore, last week I presented a proposal that would have been to declare the few working days between 24 December and 31 December, which would be a working day, a state-paid public holiday this year, in view of the epidemic, and in those sectors where winter shutdown would otherwise be planned. In the proposal, we also stated that the government should really decide which sectors these sectors are, the government should designate the sectors in which this can be applied once. Sensitive of its weight, so if an employee works only 10 to 12 working days instead of the average 19 to 20 working days in December, then he can expect a significant reduction in salary in January, and otherwise this effect can ring in the entire national economy, if I do so, one million Hungarian workers will only be able to spend half as much in the shops in January. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask the Secretary of State whether he would support a proposal or propose a regulation that would bring this proposal forward. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-14-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2020-12-14-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is certainly interesting for you or your suggestion to set public holidays by sector. This in itself is a very interesting thing, because what is the sector in which yes, which is not, what will those who have to work between the two holidays say, and what will those who are happy to say that they do not have to. But there is another aspect of this, as this would reduce the number of official working days that can be achieved by amending the labour code. I would like to point out that employers' organisations have been opposed to increasing the number of public holidays for years. Otherwise, if we look at the European Union, we will be in the middle field in this respect. Continuing to look at this proposal at the macro level, we also need to see that the loss of a working day I understand that these figures are not entirely true for the working days between the two holidays, which could amount to HUF 50-70 billion per day, and we count 0.15%. And if we look further, we see that this reduces the working time base, thus reducing the added value of one employee, i.e. lowers productivity, while at the same time increasing labour costs and thus impairs competitiveness. So overall, your proposal, Mr President, cannot be supported from a macroeconomic point of view, as you can see, you can hear that it brings only negative things in terms of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2020-12-14-185	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. You have the opportunity to respond back to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics.
u2020-12-14-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As I said, this would be a once-in-a-lifetime experience with the epidemic, we can see the economic destruction that this invisible enemy is doing, and I would like to stress it again, so not all sectors are obviously said to be unfair, but it is also quite unfair to have someone take their freedom away from it without wanting to take it out anyway, so it is only in those sectors where winter shutdown is planned. Obviously, this does not apply to trade, because they will also work between the two holidays, but for example, for the production sectors, for factories, this would apply, and there are a lot of people here who, unfortunately, will be hit very hard by the earlier exception in January, and believe me, Mr Secretary, this phenomenon will ring into the entire national economy, and it will have a very negative impact not only in January, but also in the next month or two. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I'm gonna ask you one more time how you plan on doing something like this, or would you support such a proposal? Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-187	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2020-12-14-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Even from what I said in the two minutes, it is clear that we are not planning such a regulation, because beyond what I said there, the impact it has on the economy as a whole, it has a serious impact on the budget, because on the one hand, this could lead to a loss of revenue and, on the other hand, it was described in the proposal for a decision, it is possible to grant or grant budget support in the sectors where it is being introduced, so it also generates budget expenditure. Honourable Congressman, It is our opinion, and I personally believe, that we should leave this to employers. On the basis of decades of tradition, how the period between the two festivals has been dealt with [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and this, I think, is good for both the employee and the employer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-189	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tallai. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, notary, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why do they not provide substantial assistance in dealing with the social and economic impact of the epidemic? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Tamás Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. You have the opportunity to ask questions, Mr. Notary.
u2020-12-14-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Today has been said by a number of opposition groups, I think constructive proposals to mitigate the social and economic impact of the epidemic. There was a common point in each proposal, the fact that the government does not support these proposals is actually looking at where they came from, not what they would cause. It was such a proposal that my fellow Member Sándor Szabó and I submitted to the Committee on Budgets, but the Fidesz MEPs did not come; this proposal would have increased the amount of municipal support, the resources of the municipalities, because it would have kept the car tax, 40% of it in place and, of course, would have left the support of public transport as before. However, we also have suggestions for other areas of life. You're asking people to be patient, asking everyone to change their habits, because it's a year like this. I also ask you to change your habits, to come out of the comfort zone and to support proposals, such as those I have told you about the municipalities. But I would also like to raise two other proposals which I feel are absolutely eligible for this period, even if your policy is inherently contrary to that. I suggest that the duration of the job search support be increased to nine months, and the minimum amount of the job search support is proposed by the MSZP faction for a hundred thousand forints already in spring. In such a situation, even temporarily, but this would have a very serious role to play in making people feel existentially safe. And another suggestion, which would also limit the spread of the epidemic, is a hundred percent sick leave. Imagine that if people were to receive a hundred percent pension, they would not be afraid to have a test or stay at home, they would not fear that only 60% of their wages could be paid. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] during the period of sick leave. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, can you accept this kind of thing? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] opposition proposals. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2020-12-14-191	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-12-14-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We came out of the crisis together after 2010 following your irresponsible left-wing governance, and now we will succeed again. We support every good proposal, we can support any initiative that is good for businesses and good for workers, but, Mr President, in the debate in principle, we will not agree with you that we must focus on protecting jobs, focus on creating new jobs, and not on refocusing aid. This is what you did during your catastrophic governance, and this has been the result. The result was: in 2010, the number of registered job seekers was 583 thousand per year on average, but at the beginning of 2010 it also occurred that the value calculated on the basis of self-rating exceeded 700 thousand. Honourable Congressman, Your policy leads the Hungarian people to lose their jobs, and the level of employment is falling significantly. We said no to this policy, said no to it in 2010 and say no to it now, because we think that the focus should be on protecting jobs and creating new jobs. This is what the government, the national-civil government, has done, which has raised the employment rate between 2010 and 2020 from 54 per cent to over 70 per cent, and the unemployment rate has fallen from 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent. And we are continuing this policy now, because we see that this policy is working, which is what the government is constantly taking and is taking, and with which, thanks to economic protection measures, we have a total of 1.4 million jobs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I was able to protect him. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-193	Thank you very much, Secretary Schanda. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Varga, notary.
u2020-12-14-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You did not pay enough attention on this day, because the Prime Minister started this meeting with a speech before the agenda, and said that the time of theoretical, ideological debates was over, and how irresponsible it is for me to ask you to carry on such things in an epidemic situation. I believe that they are pursuing a neo-economic policy, which is the result of decisions of this type, but now there is an epidemic, and this epidemic will certainly be here with us for at least half a year and has serious social and economic implications. The question is, therefore, to help local governments that work on the front line at this time, the question is that they will introduce 100% of the sick money for those infected with the coronal virus and certified contactees, which would mean that they would prefer to get sick, they will not be afraid to receive only 60% of their wages. This would be of existential importance to these people, and it would also limit the spread of the epidemic. These are sensible ideas, free of ideology. Change your policy, I suggest that Parliament make a lot of important decisions here at the end of the year. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and the independent.]]
u2020-12-14-195	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2020-12-14-196	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Honourable Member, we will not go back to the failed left-wing policy that has been implemented in your governance, we will not give aid; we want to provide jobs for Hungarian people. It is not the need to increase aid, but to create jobs and create new jobs instead of job losses. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw attention to the fact that the number of registered job seekers in Hungary fell below 300,000 by the beginning of November, a decline of 80 000 since mid-June shows that government measures are working. I can also tell you, honourable Member, that in the EU Member States, the average unemployment rate is above 8 per cent, in the most difficult states in the south, it is above 16 per cent; compared with this, the Hungarian indicator is only half of the unemployment rate in the EU. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And only a quarter of the Spanish, Greek data. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2020-12-14-197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. If it were the beginning of October, would you listen to the expert? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2020-12-14-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We're going in the wrong direction. We're going in like a fast train. In early October, this sentence was delivered at an online conference on the second wave of the epidemic from Professor Ferenc Jakab. The scientist was commissioned by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán under the leadership of the Core Virus Research Task Force, so the professor can hardly be considered a political enemy of the government. We must act immediately, because many more will be sick and hospitalized because of Covid's infection. State Secretary Balázs Orbán called this statement alarm the next day. The number of daily diseases was around 1300 at the time, but it has been close to 7000 since then. At that time, some 750 infected people were cared for in hospitals, and the number of our countrymen who died every day was not yet up to 20. Since then, the numbers have increased ominously, and we have recently found multiples of all the data: yesterday's data show that the number of new active infected has increased by 3470 and 165 patients have died. At the same time, Professor James called for a tightening up, a more serious epidemiological measure, a pointless measure of fever before entering the institution. Since then, the government has introduced a number of measures, mandatory masking at outdoor events, curfew at night, earlier closing of shops, buying time band for the elderly, but none of the measures have had a meaningful impact on the spread of the epidemic. We are still testing little, the infected feel most abandoned and lonely, especially when they are waiting for an ambulance home with high fever and symptoms to finally arrive with a team to test them. With all due respect, Secretary of State, if you had the beginning of October, would you listen to this expert? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-12-14-199	Thank you, Congresswoman Anett. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2020-12-14-200	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think there are some things that we completely agree with that I do not say that with the five lefts, but with some of its representatives, some of its leaders. Perhaps one is that there is no left-wing patient, there is no right-wing patient, there is no left-wing doctor, nurse, right-wing doctor and nurse, but there are patients who suffer a lot and are having a very difficult time. There are families everywhere in the whole country who are very concerned about their relatives, loved ones, and sad about their rightly deceased relatives. The same is true, they suffer a lot, doctors who struggle a lot, nurses who do everything they can to stop and cure the disease. However, I do not think that there is any discussion between us that we should really listen to professionals. Only if you listen to ten experts, 15, 30, everyone says otherwise. Everyone says otherwise; it may say otherwise in the same committee, in the same community. In fact, there are people who claim to be professionals, who are simply viral denies, who still lie to the world in the media, everywhere, and even in large countries, even organize protests about why they have to fight this virus, why they have to do everything they can to save lives, because there is no epidemic, at least that is what they claim. I would like to thank you very much for the moderate contribution that you have made, Congresswoman, in which you have listed what the country and the government have done. When were these steps supposed to be taken? This is an interesting point and an interesting question, but once again I stress that the government has taken the steps it has taken, all to a body [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] did so on his proposal, which understands, monitors and assists in the management of the epidemic. Thank you very much for asking. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anett Venue has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-12-14-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I'm glad we don't have a discussion about some things. I think we don't have to go far to find a good example. In Slovakia, where the evolution of the number of active infected until mass testing was ordered, the epidemic curve of our country passed in parallel, and after mass testing, the epidemic peaked on the 10th day, and the number of active infected began to decline. So it looks like they've successfully stopped the outbreak. You are right, Mr. Secretary of State, that I have listed some of the measures that the Hungarian Government has taken, but seeing our epidemic curve, we are not sure at all that the epidemic has culminated in us, we are not sure how much longer it will rise, because since then our epidemic curve has been rising sharply. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a good example, which requires mass testing, understanding, and not declaring the current measures a success, because they are not. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-12-14-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. The rejoinder also applies to Secretary of State Soltes.
u2020-12-14-204	Congresswoman! I'm not a health professional, but I listen to the news. Slovakia has caused a huge debate in many ways, without hurting them what they did, of course, and not qualifying, but simply stating the facts that it was filtered in bulk. 30-40 percent of the people left, the others didn't leave. One more thing: in Slovak health care, not all people who have a coronal virus are marked after it, if they are unfortunately dead, that he really died of that disease or some other disease. This completely distinguishes countries from each other, to whom, how, and how strictly it reflects this back. Hungary has decided that, in any case, if someone has any other underlying disease, however serious, sad, underlying disease, but if a coronal virus epidemic has caught and died, this is what we have in the statistics. I think it's an important message. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] One more, sorry, to finish, unfortunately not only in Hungary, but all over the world, so in Germany, Denmark, Romania [[The president's ringing again.]] and in other countries, the risk of epidemics is increasing, and the number of deaths and patients is increasing. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes this item. In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with discussions on the Commission's reports and the summarised amendments. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/13650. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-14-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. a bill amending the law. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 30 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[17.50]] Dear Parliament, The proposal before us amends the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. It also supports the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, as well as the expansion of fishing and fishing tourism opportunities, in line with its original concept. The amendments were formulated mainly on the basis of the practical experience gained through the application of the law and the public service activities of Mohosz. In most cases, it is only technical clarifications and replacements. I would like to highlight some amendments. It promotes consistent application of law, and it is an important technical element that, when exporting data of a person banned from changing state fishing and fishing tickets to a fishing information system, the fishing identification number will be included in the transferred data, as this will eliminate a number of identification problems. As a new provision, it is incorporated into the law that, during the course of the procedure to impose a fishing penalty, false reporting will not be possible to issue a new fishing document to the person subject to the procedure. It is incorporated into the law as an administrative and bureaucratic measure to harmonise the basic five-year fishing management plan and the current lease agreement on the transfer of the right to fish management. In the past, a lease contract has expired earlier than the five-year fishing plan, which has caused unexpected problems in the implementation of the last design cycle. Such and similar amendments therefore constitute the proposal before us, which will contribute to making the practical application of the rules of the Law on fish management and the protection of fish more smooth and consistent, making life easier for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian fishing societies and supporting efficient public service, whether it be the tasks of data management or control and regulation. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-207	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. Dear Parliament, I ask the rapporteur, Minister István Nagy, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] Thank you, sign that at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I now give the floor to the author, Minister István Nagy.
u2020-12-14-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am very pleased that the law is here, where it is in front of the House, and it is clear that with all the amendments that we have brought to the TAB and the TAB amendment, Members agree, because their absence and their non-communication prove that everything that has been proposed there can be agreed with. In relation to the fulfilment of the public mission of Mohosz, the draft therefore clearly identifies the objectives and tasks eligible from public service sources, clarifies and harmonises the use of material terms and conditions, and ensures the customer status of those entitled to fish management in justified cases. I believe that this bill also contains a number of technical clarification amendments, as well as an essential addition to practical operation, and, most importantly, is based on a broad social acceptance that ensures that this fishing society can manage and fulfil both the recreational needs and the management activities that are important for the growth and growth of organic diversity and the natural fish stocks of our rivers in the future, under safe conditions, under calm conditions, for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-209	Thank you very much, Minister István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the provisions for the successful organisation and organisation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme series and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow in the context of the title of Europe's Capital of Culture 2023. Government referral T/13668. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-14-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions relating to the successful organisation and organisation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme series T/13668. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The European Capital of Culture programme is one of the most successful and well-known initiatives in the EU. The European Capital of Culture is awarded by the European Union for a year. During this time, the city is given the opportunity to present its cultural life and cultural development. Over the years, the designation of Europe's cultural capitals has also provided a special opportunity to renew cities, to develop their creativity and to improve their image. The winner is Veszprém, the winner is Veszprém, but the program covers a much wider area than Lake Balaton, including nature conservation and Natura 2000 sites, the UNESCO Geopark Bakony-Balaton and the UNESCO World Heritage List. The aim of the programme series is to eliminate the seasonality of culture in the region by creating a valuable and sustainable cultural space in the region, which can be a worthy place on the European and international map of culture. The long-term strategy is based on strengthening the catalyst role of Veszprém's regional culture and introducing an up-to-date, proactive European perspective on service providers in the region's cultural life. Another aim is to provide high-quality cultural training for young people in the region and to replace the offer of cheap mass tourism with quality, sustainable tourism products. Accordingly, the programme also includes sustainable cultural and urban development objectives, which will ensure that after 2023, the benefits of the region's economic and cultural life are maintained, from which both residents and the country can benefit. It is important that investments are made that will continue to be sustainable as a result of programmes and improvements. In order to achieve this, the most obvious solution is that the builder is closely connected to the winning tendering city, while central coordination is maintained for the whole country's cultural potential. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Go, Veszprém! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-211	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I will ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] At the end, Mr.Soltész, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translate them into Hungarian. You have a six-minute time frame. [[18.00]]
u2020-12-14-212	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschläges. in Zusammenhang den Titulierung Kulturhauptstadt Europas 2023, Bestimmugen zur erfolgreichen Veranstaltung und Organisierung der Veranstaltung Kulturhauptstadt Europas 2023. - mit Nr. T/13668. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position at T/13668. in connection with the title 2023 of the European Capital of Culture, on the provisions relating to the successful organisation and organisation of the European Capital of Culture 2023 programme series. I would like to inform this House that, at the meeting of our committee on 24 November 2020, as a related committee, the motion was discussed in detail and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. No amendments were tabled to the bill, and the Committee did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. In the general debate of the bill on 20 November 2020, I read to this House a brief section of the presentation publication on the official website of the European Capital of Culture, which was about the involvement of Hungarian nationalities, the content of which was outrageous to us and showed total indiscretion. As I indicated at the end of my speech at the time, the next day I contacted Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Zrt., General Manager Markovits Alíz and, of course, Dr. Tibor Navracsics, the government commissioner responsible for the European Capital of Culture programme, and Mr. Gyula Porga, Mayor of Veszprém. After my speech, Mr Péter Ovádi, a Member of the Parliament of the region, has been personally consulted, who has also helped to organise the meeting. Thus, on 26 November 2020 in Veszprém with the stakeholders, I can say that in spite of the sensitive subject, we discussed the possibilities and ways of engaging nationalities in a very good personal meeting in the 2023 event series. We will do this in the following details directly to the German nationality of Veszprém and Veszprém counties, with the wider involvement of the Association of National National Self-governments for all ethnicities in Hungary. From January 2021 Veszprém-Balaton 2023 Zrt. can provide a special guarantee for nationalities in Hungary. is employed by a programmer, who has recently received an award from the German municipality of Veszprém County for Germanism, in recognition of his outstanding work on nationality. I believe that the organizers of the European Capital of Culture event in Veszprém in 2023 have taken a significant step not only to enable indigenous nationalities to show their unique ethnic cultural values to both domestic and foreign guests, but also to present an even more spectacular, diverse cultural series, thus strengthening the good news of our joint country, Hungary. Dear House, On this basis, the Parliament's Committee on Nationalities in Hungary naturally supports the bill and proposes it for adoption to Parliament. Finally, on behalf of myself and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I wish everyone an intimate Advent wait, blessed Christmas holidays and a healthier, happy new year. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmersamkeit!
u2020-12-14-213	Thank you very much, Congressman Ritter Imre. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First of all, I give the floor to Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, Mr. Group leader, May Other be Politics.
u2020-12-14-214	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I just want to comment very briefly on this proposal because I felt it was important. It is an extremely important series of programmes, and the European Capital of Culture is indeed one of the most outstanding and positive series of events in the European Union. It is relatively rare for a country to be able to enter the European Capital of Culture and have the opportunity to conduct an annual series of events. This is really important for an area, it is important for a city, but it is also of national importance for such a project, so we can say that it is indeed a national interest to manage such a series of programmes well. Last time in 2010, my city, Pécs, was the cultural capital of Europe. I would just like to share a few experiences in this regard very briefly. It was an enormous honour for my region to have been the cultural capital of Europe at the same time as many other cities, and we know that it is recognised in all respects, I think that Pécs is one of Hungary's cultural rural centres. Yet, it was a huge step for us to get a little bit closer to the situation of being on the cultural map of Europe. That was very important. When I was a civilian, I wasn't even a councilman at the time, I followed the preparations for many years. Unfortunately, we had to establish that we had originally developed a euphoric atmosphere in Pécs, that we had won this competition, this opportunity, but then, you could say, we thought back to 2010 with a bitter taste in the mouth. You can see how the political aspects have been revised, how the original enthusiastic ideas, the great ideas of many, many civilians about the programmes and the content have been revised, how the intentions of expressing much less content, the cultural message, pouring the whole into concrete, and from the resources available to implement institution-buildings that are, let's say, very loosely linked to this series of projects. I would therefore like to pay attention to this, both to the government and to the Member of Parliament, and also to the city of Veszprém, that this is a huge opportunity, and I congratulate the city of Veszprém and the whole region on having been won, but these aspects should be taken into account. Rather, focus on content, cultural charge, less on investment. Obviously, it is important that adequate renovations and investments are carried out, but economic sustainability is the one that must always be enforced. To date, Pécs is struggling with the fact that there have been a lot of institutional developments that have not yet been completed by the end of 2010, and since then, we can say that the city is struggling with it, how to maintain them economically, how to fill them with content. So what I can tell you is that this is a great opportunity. I wish both Veszprém and the region a lot of strength and perseverance to make a great use of this opportunity in the interests of Hungary, in order to improve our reputation in the world by this otherwise wonderful natural environment and the role of an area with wonderful historical talents in this way. I am very confident that this will take place in a positive way, and I can say, of course, that this is a technical decision on real estate and investment, which will be supported by the LMP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-215	Thank you, Mr Crusade, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-12-14-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My hometown won the title of European Capital of Culture two years ago on December 14, 2018, 2023. Of course, it was a huge pride for me just because I was part of the task force that made the preparations, and which set out the priorities for the applicants to do this work. I must tell you that it was a great pleasure for me that both the leadership of the city and the prepers of the tender, which I myself formulated, had received the idea that the inhabitants of the city should be removed from the apathy. [[18.10]] The inhabitants of the city must go further, because indeed, whether you like it or not, despite the wonderful historical city of Veszprém, we have seen over the past decade and a half that people have become more shut down and with the message that bears the title of the cultural capital, the transcending, overcoming ourselves, and overcoming all that we are now living. At the time, I asked both the applicants and the city's management to show up not in concrete, but from the hearts. It is much more important that the citizens of the city fully identify with this program than to see that there are countless new buildings built, but there is no heart to it, and there is no spirit and enthusiasm to achieve this program wonderfully. And I specifically warned you about Pécs' problems, where you can get all the experience you need to know how not to do this program. My fellow Members, I also have some bad feelings, not about the proposal, but about the need to bring this to the House after two years. Parliament is absolving all existing legislation from the implementation of the programme, the municipality and the company because there is a delay. It is now impossible to carry out procedures to effectively and effectively carry out investments if Parliament does not exempt both the local government and the public sector from these procedures, which will carry out the organisation. When the tender was awarded to the city, you should know that it was such a rich tender that it could have been started virtually immediately, both for the programmes and for the investment of the export plans, but, as we have seen, it was a delay. It is natural that I, too, today, ask every member of Parliament to vote in favour of this and to move forward, and to give every opportunity to make this programme feasible from this HUF 8.5 billion, so that we can really boast together with the peoples of Europe and the world that a wonderful little Hungarian city, which has been wearing the fantastic image that our ancestors have created for almost a thousand years, will see that the world and Europe deserve this title. I am also speaking on behalf of the taxpayers, even if I do so as the son of Veszprém, to ask the performers, if taxpayers support this programme with such a huge amount of money, then this programme must indeed be of the quality that is worthy of this huge amount. I ask everyone who is involved in this, that success now, which is from the heart and not from concrete, determines the programme of the cultural capital of Veszprém, and then, when we are beyond that, whether in this Parliament or in public life, everyone can say that we did it well, it was indeed a great job. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-12-14-217	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-12-14-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the people of Veszprém for this fantastic work that we have already been able to achieve, to the Member, to the Mayor, to the Commissioner of the Government, and to all those who have worked on this proposal or will work in its implementation. I think that this proposal and the success of this is a collaboration, because the people of Veszprém have joined forces. It is Hungarian national interest to achieve this well, that it is good that it is useful to be full of experiences, and to join forces in the sense that regions, which, in the case of normal tourism, could compete with each other in the Bakony region, the Balaton, Veszprém and its surroundings, have now been able to join forces, and together, as a Hungarian national interest, they present to the whole world the wonderful heritage, gastronomic, touristic, cultural, built heritage, natural heritage and natural beauty that can be found there. I do not agree with the speeches that, say, a theatre, a community space, a cathedral is only called concrete, because the important thing is that if such a source is available, there should be quality programmes attracting tourists, life-filled events, full of community spaces, theatres, streets, event halls, but from these sources can be built buildings and renovate buildings that serve the interests of Veszprém, the cultural capital of Europe, not only in the year of Veszprém, but also in the following 5-10-15-20-30 years, the interests of Veszprém, the neighborhoods and visitors. If there is such an opportunity that Europe as a whole is paying attention, and so many cities in Europe have been able to make use of this opportunity, then it is important that what you call concrete, so that the built heritage can be renewed, so that new community spaces can be created, so that Hungary, the Hungarian nation and its residents can benefit from it not only in that year, but also in the long term. Therefore, I do not agree with the fact that you are only cementing, and you only call the built heritage concrete, or the new, renewable and newly built community spaces, because such spaces are very much needed, such buildings are very much needed. I therefore agree with you in the part that we need high-quality, professional programmes, which are full of life, which is full of professionalism, which is just awe for the people who visit and live there. But there is also a need to renew or build new buildings, so that it is not just a project that has been and has passed away, but to preserve itself, to carry on this atmosphere and to benefit the people who visit and live there. This is how I can support this package, and also because the county of Veszprém is involved, so the cooperation is complete, and the value-creating work will be shown. I wish to all of us that we could meet there in 2023 on top of the quality programmes, in buildings that are better than the quality. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-14-219	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2020-12-14-220	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Since we've talked about this subject before, I might be able to be shorter. I believe that three or four conditions are necessary to ensure that this event and this project are successful. The first is that everything should be prepared in time, so it is an important parameter. Therefore, I believe that any decision taken by the legislator, the government, should be supported to ensure that this project is ready by the time it is ready. So in this sense, I can support facilitation, acceleration on my part. Of course, proper transparency, transparency, spending public money and the rest, everyone takes this for granted. The other one, which is also very important, was mentioned in part by Congressman Nacsa, and I think Andrea Varga-Damm, if I understand it correctly, I will approach her statement in a more benevolent manner. But then I would say that things have to be done, and in a way, and in programs that the Veszprém people profit from in the long term. So, obviously, this project is also for Hungary and Europe, but after that, the Veszprém people can enjoy it better, the environment built there; it is simply that it looks better or looks more culturally, or that it has value for use that is. I consider both important, especially in a city like Veszprém, a city of queens and has a very serious historical tradition. I do not see it as a problem for my part, and even for the sake of historical traditions and the fact that the diocese is involved today, I think there is nothing wrong with that. So maybe the problem would be if you hadn't been involved in such a series of cultural capital programs, even if you could be sure how much of the resources are now, where, in what form, who is available. Nevertheless, I think that the ultimate goal should be considered, so in Hungarian, the final social use of this project, so I would also consider it important. Perhaps the last thing to be welcomed is to say that the political consensus can be maintained throughout the project, perhaps this, precisely so that the afterlife of this project is something that is expected to occur during its implementation. Of course, everyone is trying to capitalize on every development, and I don't think that's from the devil. However, I think that if there is a political consensus in this, the people of Veszprém will be very happy if we can exclude this project from the field of party political battles, because there are enough other areas where we can fight. It'd be nice to keep it that way. So for my part, I urge my faction to continue, as I said last time, to support this proposal. Last time, Mr Secretary of State spoke to him in that spirit, and I thank him for that, and I trust that this attitude will accompany this project. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-12-14-221	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, Fidesz. [[18.20]]
u2020-12-14-222	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much as Veszprém's parliamentary representative for the supporting contributions, because I really think the whole country expects Veszprém to succeed in this project. Just for the record, I would like to correct my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm by saying that we are not too late to plan the project. Yes, as you said, it was decided exactly two years ago that Veszprém and its region could be Europe's cultural capital in 2023, but well-prepared projects have to take time. And I suppose the congresswoman didn't miss the fact that there was a coronal virus epidemic that we are still living in the second stage of today, which made preparation difficult. I would also like to say that it is very important for us to make investments that will continue to be sustainable as a result of the programmes and developments that have been created. Government Commissioner Tibor Navracsics has said this many times, and we follow this principle, and that is why it is necessary to adopt this law. Thank you all for your supportive attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-223	Thank you very much, Congressman Ovadi. Congressman László László Keresztes, LMP!
u2020-12-14-224	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a rejoinder to Congressman Nacsa: I think you misunderstood what I said. I didn't say it couldn't be started, it couldn't be renovated, it couldn't be built, but it could, obviously, be an important part of it. I only called attention to the fact that this should not dominate, and not to make investment decisions and then to shape the contents of the whole, the soul of the whole, as Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said. Timing is extremely important. I give you an example: by the way, we Pécs are very proud of the wonderful Kodály Center, it is a wonderful conference and concert centre with 999 people, together with a sense that it is not designed for a city of Pécs, we can say: it is a regional institution, so it is capable of serving a region of 900 thousand people. Obviously, we have a job to fill this with programs, but these are important institutions that will continue to operate and bring the reputation of Pécs to a distance, and we can say that the Kodály Center's event is also filled every day, so it is almost every day that there is obviously not an event during the coronal virus epidemic. But this wonderful centre was handed over on 16 December 2010 compared to the 2010 European Capital of Culture. So it also shows that we are proud of it, but it was no longer able to serve the specific series of events of the 2010 European Capital of Culture. We were a little more successful or a little luckier with the renovation of Széchenyi tér, because this was done in May 2010. But what I can tell you is that on 31 December we had to hold the season opening of the festive series of European Capitals of Culture from 1 January in a field where we had to place different planks and there we were during the renovation. These things need to be taken care of. And I spoke only as a member of the Parliament of Pécs, because I could personally see these experiences as a citizen of Pécs, so I consider it justified to take any steps to speed up investments or to ensure that these are completed in time. But thank you very much to everyone who has participated in the programme so far, and congratulations to the people of Veszprém, congratulations to the whole region on having already achieved this great result, and I wish you every success in its successful completion. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-225	Thank you, Mr Crusade, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész.
u2020-12-14-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are indeed talking about a total national interest, and thank you very much for having experienced it here during the debate, even if there are arguments or messages to pay attention to or listen to the organisers, but the overall national interest has come from this bill. I would also like to emphasise again what was involved in the speech by Mr Lóránt Keresztes's group leader, but I would just like to add a little more to the Pécs line of thought that it is true that this cultural capital title is not only for one year, the programmes themselves, yes, the implementation, but not the preparation, because before it it gives a lot of people a job, an opportunity, which is very important, be it engineers, organizers, programme planners, workers, and many others. In the same way as in Pécs, despite the fact that the year did not succeed, and it could be discussed why the Gyurcsány government did not have much more of a sideline to this, otherwise it was a very important case, even when it was a social mayor, even though they didn't help their own, but it is parentheses. However, after the year 2010, the continuation remained with the Pécs, so this many, many beautiful things, which, if any, was completed in November, remained there, and this is important for the Pécs. I think this is the most important thing for the people of Veszprém, and therefore I thank them for putting up with it on one side because obviously there will be difficulties in building, investing, preparing for the period, the preparation period, but on the other hand I encourage them to receive a city that is beautiful now, fantastic, but in total it will be an opportunity for buildings, historic buildings, various central buildings, community places, and I add that green areas will also be renewed. And it is a fantastic thing that a city can be a part of one of these, which is why I would like to thank both Congressman Ovadi and Mr Mayor Navracsics, and, as we have heard, I would like to thank Andrea Varga-Damm, but thank everyone who has already been involved in the preparations and for the continuation. It will not really work without the community not being united, and obviously in this community we are not talking about a political community; we are talking about actors, civil society organisations, architects and many others as well. If I may, I would also like to thank György Udvardy, former Bishop of Pécs, for his contribution, because if anyone knows him, and there are certainly many people in Veszprém who know the royal castle and the bishop's palace and its surroundings, we should be proud of that. But if we take a closer look at some of the buildings, we'll be sad, and from the other side, that sadness will certainly pass, because it will be beautiful. I believe the Archbishop will do a great deal in this, too. What I would like to point out in closing is that this is not only about Veszprém, although Veszprém is at the centre, but it is about this presentation and the whole work that you will have to do under the leadership of Tibor Navracsics, under the leadership of the city, many people, including Bakony, the shore of Lake Balaton, and also about the beautiful environment that characterizes this region, how it presents itself to the world. And I think that we have a very big responsibility here, that if we said that Pécs is in a fantastic place at the foot of Mecsek, if we say about Pécs as a Mediterranean city, how wonderful it is in its architectural, cultural and natural environment, but we have failed to achieve the success that would have been so good if it had affected to this day, and that Pécs could still benefit from it, I believe that it is precisely because we have taken rapid decisions, because this law allows us to make decisions that speed up preparations, as a result Veszprém and its environment will achieve the goals that we want. I would like to thank, once again, both the factions and those who have contributed in this debate, that, hopefully, by showing a national consensus on this issue tomorrow, we will vote together on this bill and then it will become a law because Veszprém, the city of queens, is a common cause for all of us, and I believe that we can achieve a miracle together, of course, under the leadership of some people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the LMP.]]
u2020-12-14-227	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal now follow. The government referral is T/13669. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I will give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Ádám Héjjj.
u2020-12-14-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13669 amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on sanctions for administrative infringements. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that the 2017 CXXV on sanctions for administrative infringements that will enter into force on 1 January 2021. to establish and amend the sectoral rules necessary for the proper application of the sanction law. This is essential for ensuring the coherence of the legal system, which is a very important and unavoidable criterion for the rule of law. The purpose of establishing a sanction law is to implement a single system of penalties in which a uniform, transparent and consistent framework is laid down for the general rules on the negative consequences which administrative authorities may impose in administrative procedures. A clear and understandable norm system can make a significant contribution to promoting the enforcement of the law of citizens and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, Graduity and predictability are two pillars of the sanctioning system established by the Sanctions Act. Graduity shall consist, on the one hand, of the first warning instead of a fine within one year and, on the other hand, of the first half-life of the maximum penalty within three years. Predictability primarily means defining the general criteria for weighing in the event of the calculation of a fine. The proposal before us envisages, in particular, technical amendments, since, mainly due to the possibility of a derogation from the sanctioning law, certain sectoral laws exclude the application of a warning as a adverse legal consequence, and the duration of the limitation period and of the prohibition from carrying out the activity are determined differently. The amendments contained in the bill can therefore be divided into four large groups: the exclusion of a warning from certain types of cases, the setting of sanctions at the appropriate source of law, for example by law or by government decree, the separation of measures, obligations or sanctions in legal texts where necessary, and the repeal of provisions parallel to the sanction law, such as weighing criteria, limitation periods. Dear House, It should be noted, however, that the proposal submitted contains amendments to the laws less relevant to the specific subject matter, in addition to the sectoral legislative amendments which prove to be unnecessary for the application of the sanction law. For example, the amendment of the Regional Development and Regional Planning Act, according to which, in future, instead of the agreement of the municipalities of county municipalities, the metropolitan government and the county-righted cities, and I think that we need to place emphasis on their involvement in the development, implementation, monitoring and implementation of operational programmes containing territorial developments and the development and adoption of regional and urban development concepts. As a result of the amendment of the Public Finance Act, aid granted from Chapter 9 of the central budget, including local government grants, will also be possible to modify the objective of the investment for the investment started. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is therefore to amend legislation in the context of the future entry into force of the sanction law that contributes to the coherence of the legal system. Therefore, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-229	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask Mr. István György, Secretary of State, who is sitting here on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[For signal:]] In the end, thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2020-12-14-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, It has also been said in the introduction that there is indeed a salad law here, that it amends a lot of legislation, and it can be seen that there are some that are eligible, by the way, that the bill is basically professional, and that there are some that we are debating. However, what Mr President has said is that point 13, the amendment of the Land Development and Land Planning Act, which, by simplifying it, again presents a process to reduce the room for manoeuvre of local authorities, reduces the scope of operational programmes containing territorial development, and also reduces the room for manoeuvre of local authorities in the development of the concept of territorial development. I have said many times, in many debates, that I do not want to repeat that, in principle, if we are talking about improvements, successful developments and effective improvements, and about the efficient use of development resources, we should not avoid local authorities, but also provide them with significantly wider powers than the current situation. Therefore, while there are indeed forward-looking parts in this proposal, which is why, with which we can very, very much disagree, the LMP fraction will vote against this. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Hey, David.
u2020-12-14-232	Thank you very much. Very briefly: this has already been the case at an earlier stage of the debate, and we said it then, and I also stressed that instead of agreeing, they will need to be involved. At the moment, the law was to tell them in the end what the decision was. Now it is necessary to involve the municipalities in the current phase of planning the operational programme, whether it be a government pro-government or a opposition government, that is not what will determine it. So the municipalities will be involved at a much earlier stage. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[For signal:]] I see an application at the last moment: Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-12-14-234	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would just like to reiterate briefly the position of the MSZP that we do not support this proposal either. Thank you. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then I'll ask you again, there's someone else you'd like to comment on. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application now, so the debate is closed. And now I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State on behalf of the author.
u2020-12-14-236	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on sanctions for administrative infringements took place on 20 November 2020 and on 24 November 2020 by the Judicial Committee, while the proposal was put on the agenda of the Legislative Committee on 10 December 2020. As has been said, but I would reiterate that the aim of the bill is to ensure that the 2017 CXXV on sanctions for administrative infringements. In the context of the entry into force of the Sanctions Act on 1 January 2021, the Act proposes to amend legislation which contributes to the coherence of the legal system. As explained in the general debate, the amendments to the law in the bill before us most often concern the exclusion of a warning in certain types of cases, the inclusion of it at the level of the source of law corresponding to the determination of sanctions, the separation of measures, obligations and sanctions, as appropriate, in a legislative text, as well as the repeal of provisions parallel to the sanctioning law, considerations of discretion, limitation periods. It is important to highlight, as stated by the Legal Committee's speaker, Mr Dávid Héjj, that, as a result of the amendments negotiated by the Legislative Committee, it will be possible, in the future, to draw up or amend, within the limits laid down by law, the detailed rules for the keeping of certain wild species in the closed spaces, in line with changes in the ecosystem, society or the economy. [[18.40]] This is because in Hungary hunting species are included in the law and the law's implementing regulation at the same time, but there is no reason to list each species at the legal level, given that it can change from time to time for conservation or other ecological reasons, so the amendment serves partly deregulation and partly game management professional purposes. Dávid Hey, although it was not specifically about this proposal, it was about those contained in the bill, the Aht. on the amendment of the law on territorial development and spatial planning, and a few more laws, a total of five proposed amendments by the bill, together with the proposals mentioned here in the contributions of the Members, the Group leader. Let me mention that the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. It was also necessary to amend law on a complementary basis in view of the fact that it is important for the Climate Protection Authority to impose a penalty on the administrative penalty on the types of cases defined by excluding the use of a warning. It is therefore necessary to remove the general rule allowing warning from the proposal. At the same time, however, the types of cases where, according to the organisational strength of potential offenders, their economic weight and the nature of infringements which seriously endanger the public interest, it is appropriate not to warn. Not least, following the summarised amendment proposal, the bill leaves CLXXXV 2012 on waste. a comprehensive amendment to the Act, since the bill amending certain laws relating to energy and waste management introduces the amendments previously proposed. Dear Parliament, The bill was put forward by the Government in order to establish a uniform, transparent and consistent regulation of the sanctions system, which I ask both honourable Members and ladies to adopt. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-237	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the provisions relating to the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain property management laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/13673. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-12-14-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain property management laws T/13673. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. It's a decision 46. By 24 votes in favour, 8 against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of the bill submitted by the Government is to facilitate the efficient performance of public tasks of public companies and the digital catch-up of persons in need through the free transfer of state assets, and to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the necessary provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law, and, in recent years, to transpose the changes in national assets and the entities involved in the management of assets through the law on national assets. One of the elements of the proposal is to ensure that the Filharmonic Orchestra, Choir and Kottatár Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, which is owned by the Hungarian State, has free ownership of the movable property in order to facilitate the provision of its tasks as a key national cultural institution. The change of legislation provides a solution for Filharmonia Hungary Nkft. a satisfactory settlement of the legal situation of movable property necessary for the performance of its cultural public tasks. Thanks to the request formulated during the detailed discussion of the proposal, the Hungarian National Museum's Esztergom Castle Museum and the Esztergom Castle were incorporated as another point for the Esztergom-Budapest County in order to achieve religious and cultural goals. In addition, the proposal was added to an additional property, with the free ownership of an rented public park for the municipality of Esztergom in order to facilitate the operation of the settlement. By the way, the county of the Archdiocese initiated ownership by reference to the fact that the area concerned had previously been ecclesiastical property, and since Esztergom's Basilica is adjacent to the area concerned as one of the prominent sacral and tourist centres of the country, it is justified to promote a uniform system of considerations in the implementation of the development and operation through the provision of ecclesiastical property in areas closely related to both physical and function. Thanks to another element of the proposal, the National Farm and Farm of Menes owns the assets that have been managed, developed and invested in several titles for many years and are essential for the operation of which they are essential for their cultural, educational and safekeeping functions. I consider it important to mention that the proposal also sets out fundamental changes to the concession law, such as the clarification of the exclusive economic activities of the State and the municipality, and thus included in the proposal the development and operation of railway tracks forming part of and used by the municipality as the new exclusive economic activity of the municipality. The bill introduces the legislative clause, which is already well-known in Hungarian concession practice, for example in the case of motorway concession contracts. This principle is recognised in the relevant French, Polish and German international concession practice. Also, in the absence of a foreign element, the possibility of proceeding with a foreign or Hungarian arbitration court is generally insured, provided that an international contract or other international obligation does not preclude this. Thank you very much for your attention, and I propose that the proposal be adopted.
u2020-12-14-239	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr János Fónagy, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end.
u2020-12-14-240	At the end.
u2020-12-14-241	It indicates that at the end. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-12-14-242	Mr President, Dear House, The House seems to be experiencing such moments of grace, perhaps on our last long sitting this year some of us are present in the Chamber and we can discuss professional issues as well. Let us take advantage of this moment of grace, because it is more serious than that. [[18.50]] As I said in the general debate phase, I am not shutting down about the support of the Hungarian National Philharmonic Orchestra with such assets. In the same way, if church institutions have some kind of wealth, especially if it was previously in their treatment, I am not at all cold with guts. So there is plenty to justify such transactions, and if there is any sane, economic argument for them, then I say that these debates can be held. So don't make it seem like I have a problem with the transfer or management of different assets in itself. On the other hand, we have mentioned many times that a national inventory is missing. This is, of course, a promise made since 2010, then we promised that we would say this every time, and as a consistent person I would try to fulfill this wish. And we have always clarified that national or state wealth is not one and the same, it is two different categories, it is a special area of expertise that deals with these issues, and it would be very good if Parliament could at last do something with these in these professional dimensions, because we have endless and recurring debates on these issues. What is more difficult for me to digest is that the various assets transferred were clearly not covered by several passes of the National Property Act. And I complain that my fellow pro-government Members, undersecretaries of state, typically tell us that this is not the case, but the law is a stubborn thing, of course, there are interpretation issues in it, but the paragraphs before us clearly reveal that some of the most important sections of the national wealth law, not all of them, but some of it does not apply. One is a provision containing a continuous obligation to provide information and the other is a provision enabling the restoration of an original state in the event of a high risk of an infringement or infringement. In English, if we get the recipient and user of the state asset by not acting in the way it does, by not treating the wealth as it is in accordance with the rules, then by restoring the original state of the state, state control can take back the property that the complications were about. This is therefore clearly lacking in the system that you have worked out, and according to which similar salad laws, if we add it up, a wealth of about a thousand billion-dollar scale, previously under state control, is being outsourced to companies whose good intentions I would not want to take away, because there are a great variety of companies, the spectrum that we have before us is very wide. But what really irritates me is that in similar salad laws and packages there are mines, hidden elements that a national emotional economist like me cannot go without saying, because there should be a basis for all right-wing patriot economic policies to protect our micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Of course, we cooperate with multinational companies, because every market needs its activities, we cooperate with banks, but we do not create the paradise of banks and multinationals to the detriment of Hungarian mkkvs. [[Continue in 175/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Monday, 14 December 2020 175/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Therefore, when a minister lobbys in Brussels and then comes to the table of the Hungarian Parliament to encourage large companies to invest in domestic investment with more than EUR 800 000, that particular alarm bell starts ringing in me. Because the alarm bells say that, although the multi-enterprises have not yet been served by such governments in Hungary as the regents since 2010, it is an exaggeration that while they are at war with the world, they are going out to Brussels, lobbying and motivating decision-makers there to support companies that support a kind of perverse redistribution by supporting them with a threshold of more than EUR 800 thousand. What are we talking about? When these large companies make a profit, they keep this profit very often untaxed out of the country, but when they have a loss, then very often you, not exactly on national and not exactly right-wing foundations, turn to taxpayers, take that amount away from taxpayers, and replace large companies. It's pretty amazing. Otherwise, it would be possible to have legitimate debates about, say, in the case of Audi, whether the Secretary of State or any minister would stand up and tell us not to watch at the Audi, dear opposition representatives, how many Hungarian people are employed, not to see how high wage levels they provide, because maybe you wouldn't be satisfied yet, but look at, say, the supply network created by the establishment of an Audi in Győr, again, this would be a legitimate economic policy debate. At the same time, this debate is not taking place between us. We see that they are lobbying abroad to support large companies and large companies with larger amounts, Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are far from reaching this subsidy volume, while Audi Hungaria Zrt. is signing a contract with two billion forints of state aid, which, with two billion forints, compensates for losses resulting from this year's total quarantine downtime, falling wages, a hundred percent in full, while we do not find any Hungarian companies in which this similar subsidy volume would exist. This is therefore called the socialism of the rich in certain articles when profits remain private, but losses are made out of public money. The perverse redistribution I have mentioned is something similar: it is supported by tax forints collected from poorer people or collected from poorer people, replacing those who might be least dependent on it. I'm not saying it's an Audi Hungaria Zrt. or a multi-company should not receive support, I will not say this, but I say that these strategic agreements, which typically regulate the multi-party grant agreement, must be renegotiated, in the spirit of undertaking to give support to a multi-company in Hungary that undertakes to increase its wage level, slow settlement at least stepwise to the European average, if necessary in two decades, but let us start at last. I am not saying that they are taking the approach to the average wage level in Western Europe, to the European average, in which the Member States that are less performing are involved. However, it is not possible that the Hungarian wage level is at the back of the V4 countries, even in terms of dynamics, it is not even outlier than the countries of the region, but it is humiliatingly low for many social groups at European level, while at the same time the Hungarian Government supports several companies from the tax forints collected from these employees, large companies, the small ones much less, and even going out to Brussels, Strasbourg to get more than 800 thousand euros in support. All in all, this is a flow chart that shows us not the image of a national, not a right-wing economic policy, economic philosophy, but the fact that your allies are the German car companies, your allies are the multi-companies that give you the music of how to create a paradisaic economic policy climate for them. Once again, as a representative of your right-wing opposition, I clearly and completely reject this self-sacrifice of economic policy. I'm going to ask you to be braver. But if there is finally a turning point in the sky and horizon of Hungarian political life in 2022, then I am very confident that we will touch these questions much more bravely, because this flow chart is synonymous with self-destruction. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-14-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-12-14-244	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to make a brief statement. Agreeing with what my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, said, but in addition to one sentence: and it is not a left-wing economic policy that is represented here. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Neoliberal.]] So in Hungarian, more like a neoliberal approach that you apply [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] not only on this issue, but also on many other areas. That is why, of course, even we ourselves do not agree or support it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-14-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. [[Tamás Herczeg: Excuse me. I've applied, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Dániel Z. Carpathian: There was a candidate!]] I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2020-12-14-246	Thank you, Mr. President. When a bill is being discussed, where the state's policy on wealth policy and economic recovery or the proliferation of jobs is the subject, I am happy to take over the role of my colleague Schanda, and I am happy to be in a polemic situation with my fellow Members, which are the most important tools for industrial development, technological development and the expansion of state wealth in general, but let me now talk about the proposal that is in front of this House. [[19.00]] With regard to this proposal, I also thank the speaker for his generally moving but supportive statement, which says that for such purposes as the National Philharmonic Orchestra or certain IT developments, or even for church purposes, asset management or the transfer of property should generally be supported, also here. At the same time, I would like to mention in particular the addition of the provisions of the bill on the free distribution of wealth in the work of the Parliamentary Committee. Referring to and not bypassing what has been said in the committee, I would like to point out here that the National Ménes estates and the Farm acquires the property of the properties of the estates currently in its management, the only practical aim of the asset allocation is to make the company's development and investment objectives more efficient and smoother. I would like to refer here to my fellow Member Mr Z. Carpath's concern that he does not see the sanctions for the benefit of property. Allow me to point out in particular here that it is a guarantee from the point of view of public asset management that we are imposing an unlimited disposal and debit ban on real estate for the benefit of the State. The transfer of two more buildings in Esztergom was added to the proposal, the beneficiary of which, as the rapporteur mentioned in the Commission, the county of Esztergom and the municipality of Esztergom. Ownership was initiated by the Archdiocese on the grounds that the area concerned had previously been ecclesiastical property, and that the Esztergom Basilica, as one of the prominent sacral and tourist centres of the country, was also justified physically, by the provision of church property in areas closely related to their purpose, to facilitate future developments. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would also like to point out in particular that a disposal ban on historic property will be registered at the same time as the transfer. Trust is nice, but the burden of disposal is recorded. Plant and operation, including the maintenance of public parks, is a municipal task, so it is obvious that the public park property is transferred to Esztergom City Municipality. In our view, a small amendment to the law on national assets will facilitate the application of the law, make the legal system more uniform and increase the trust of citizens. During the parliamentary committee's work, we clarified the definition of the law on national assets by clarifying the range of potential trustees for local government-owned assets. During Parliament's decision-making, my fellow Members have made a number of proposals, which have made language clarification in the text of the text. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the committees for their supporting professional work, which contributed to the above-mentioned clarification and professional addition of the bill. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members that T/13673. Please support bill No 1 with the amendments made in the summarised amendment proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-247	Good evening. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws on property management and financial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Government referral T/13672. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and financial matters T/13672. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 24 votes in favour, 9 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The basic objective of the bill submitted by the Government is to establish, on the basis of the experience gained by law enforcement, the necessary amendments to the laws concerned in order to ensure a uniform interpretation of the law and, in recent years, to transfer the changes in the state's assets and in the management of assets to the legislation contained in the proposal. The bill provides for the transfer of property belonging to the State, located outside Bicske, to the Maltese Charity Service free of charge. The purpose of the real estate application is for Malta's Love Service to develop real estate on real estate in order to ensure the housing conditions of health and social workers. The proposal also concerns the Water Services Act. The purpose of the technical amendment is to ensure that the legal situation of the current state-owned water utility systems, which are not recognised as exclusive public property in the national property law, is settled, both in terms of liability for care and in terms of the water utility service relationship. In order to support the sports development ideas of certain major sports clubs in Budapest with a high tradition, the proposal designates associations such as the BVSC, the Újpest Gymnastics Association or the Köre of Hungarian Test Practitioners, Budapest Sport Association for several real estate purposes. This will significantly facilitate the implementation of the sport development strategy of the associations. The proposal also allows financial institutions to provide all the services that Magyar Posta Zrt. can provide in order to better serve the population of small settlements. can also be found in metropolitan mails. Finally, I think it is important to mention the changes to the concession law. In nearly 30 years since the entry into force of the law, domestic economic and social relations have changed significantly. The overall amendment justifies the need to adapt procedures to the social and economic needs that have changed since then, by reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures with appropriate guarantees. The proposal is also linked to economic re-launch measures in the context of the Covid-19 epidemic. The amendment could lead to a concession procedure that contains simple, fast and efficient and adequate legal guarantees for economic cooperation between the State and the concession holder in accordance with the principles of national asset management. Thank you very much for your attention. I propose that the motion be accepted.
u2020-12-14-249	Thank you very much. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, Secretary General Major has indicated that he wishes to speak at the end of the agenda. [[19.10]] I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I'll inform you about the time frame. Fidesz has 27, KDNP has 13, Jobbik has 9, MSZP has 9, DK has 7, LMP has 6 and Dialogue has 5 and independents have 4 minutes. Members' speeches may follow. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, please.
u2020-12-14-250	Mr President, Dear House, Strange, familiar feelings take over the one-time opposition representative, since we have a style-type proposal similar to the debate that we had a few minutes ago. Once again, I could make eye contact with people who basically sympathize with my conservative self. With the real estate application to the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, I think few people could argue with supported professional arguments. I'm sure you can find the knot here, but I think there's one in this proposal that needs to have an absolute positive sign in our little analysis. It is therefore incomprehensible to me, or it is very understandable why we are in order and typically in a situation where parts of proposals that are absolutely irritating and glowing as red light are included in such a package. In recent weeks, I have been most irritated by the government's proposals regarding gambling and concessions. After all, I clearly see the intention not only here, but even in the case of the pre-allocation of the various parking concessions, that there has been some confusion in the force on the government side, and that they have begun to prepare for what happens if they suffer an election defeat here in 22. And what I see is that more and more areas are either being used to circumvent assets, or to cement entitlements for long years, which are either simply incomprehensible or even very understandable. Here, too, we see that the Chief of Staff of Viktor Orbán could decide on the various rights and eligibility of the seven casinos producing billions before the election in 22 and the government will make the selection of the future operators of the five casinos in Budapest and two casinos in East Hungary a priority national interest. As a voter living in Óbuda, I am also incredibly irritated when I try to shop very carefully for the family and take all security measures into account. This is also a workshop for Christmas gifting, but I usually do it in a bookstore, because I do not want to live in a world without books, and I also try to provide my family members with spiritual ammunition, especially knowing how much less we read than we did ten years ago. I think this is an important service. But looking to my left on my way to the bookshop, I can see that the casino is laughing and operating undisturbed in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, when the gym or swimming pool I am very fond of is simply not allowed to keep its doors open. There are also arguments, of course, so I do not wish to create the appearance of a health professional. Mr Schanda and I often talk about whether he is right that these institutions are closed or not. Of course, there are health considerations for being closed, but besides the opening hours of casinos, I'm sorry, what do you say? It is quite incomprehensible to me that representatives of a billionaire profit-making business are unduly benefited by the government and who, let's say, is unable to enter an institution of a cultural or leisure centre that is customary, rightly excluded, or rightly feels unfair about the fact that the casino may be open. What we see here is that the prior allocation of rights for the seven casinos producing billions is a bit like the case of parking companies, where from 22 onwards, this government will want to cement an eight-year concession. I also recall that the chief of staff or someone in the area will decide who will be the beneficiary concessionaire, who will agree with the subcontractors, say, a district parking company, but they believe that market economy relations are compatible with the fact that this will be covered for eight years. Even in the proposal before us, this is the mood that comes to mind, and I do not think that this is compatible with fair market economy conditions, or at least raises the appearance of suspicion. In front of me are the charts showing the development of the net revenues of the various casinos. Obviously, I'm not showing it because I'm terrified of the forbidden illustration, but I don't want to get the anger of the Speaker and the headmaster, but at the same time, I wouldn't be able to see it in the camera if I showed it, but the graph is here. Compared to 2015, the net turnover of which the government is about to allocate its various concession rights in advance has doubled, and we also see that, hiding in the regulations of the epidemiological law, the transcription of concessions may not be the way to go, and it may not even be a fair way. Hab on the cake that another HUF 800 million would go to the MotoGP course in Hajdúnánás, and this has also been published in the epidemiological defense package before, when my fellow Member Ádám Steinmetz made it quite clear that there is an abandoned investment in Hungary; much cheaper, more cost-effective, who would like to finish such a thing there. After all, there has been some lobbying interest that has brought the government's intentions to the brink of irrationality, and in a much more expensive, less efficient way, it wishes to complete an investment that, perhaps, in the middle of the emergency, would not be such a burning need right now. Obviously, in this connection, there will also be arguments raised by pro-government representatives, but I say that it is not only dangerous to combine these packages with the insurgents in a positive way, but I am quite certain that they will convey a negative pattern, and I am also sure, without threatening anyone, because it is really not that the concession rights which are intended to be cemented from 2021 or from 22 to 8 years will not be granite for eight years. I think that in the case of a post-2021 shift, whoever comes into power must be involved in this in some form. It would be more fair to allow pure competition where possible, and where, say, the Hungarian interest must be protected, the microwave, the small entrepreneur, the medium, and there you can argue about protectionist economic policy, and you need to protect your own domestic interest. That's not what these suggestions say. There is a tight business circle and a strong support for large entrepreneurs. There is an in-house hand of concessions, so everything we have learned in neoliberal economic policy is very many in the university, and what the literature described in this way is not a national, not a right-wing, not a Christian-social economic policy, but a chemical neoliberal, which I can only reject as a right-wing conservative person and economist. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-12-14-251	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz!
u2020-12-14-252	Mr President, Dear Mrs. Author, I do not wish to abuse your patience; I wanted to comment on the previous agenda for amending certain legislation on property management, but because of some technical problem, your monitor did not indicate that I would like to comment. I would like to say very briefly that if I had the opportunity to do so, which I wanted to mention. This is that, in the context of the change of legislation, perhaps we have all mentioned what this change of legislation contains. I would like to say very briefly what it does not contain, and I would like to say that, as an opinion with the majority of the citizens of Szabadsános, New Snake and Peaceful Csaba, we all consider it appropriate that the ownership and ownership status of the Wenckheim Castle in Szabadsános does not change. Szabadkeresztós, Békéscsaba, the citizens of New Snake, and the settlements are in fact in a daily relationship. A lot of people from the two Snakeheads go to work in Békéscsaba. There are a lot of peaceful Csaba residents who come to Free Snake House every week to take wedding photos and family photos. So there is an organic relationship between the three settlements, and the decision that will hopefully be made tomorrow will prove that it is worth building on the cooperation of these three settlements the future that will be important for all of us, not only for those who will come from the ever-growing sections of the M44 to us in Békés county, but also for those living there. Thank you very much. I tried very briefly to tell you what I would have planned a long time ago. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-253	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2020-12-14-254	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is quite a bit of a practice these days that Fidesz consciously puts points in the various amendments that might be eligible, and many that are not. So it's not the first and probably not the last such proposal. But what Dániel Z. Kárpát has already said in detail, for the sake of saving time, I say that you are simply that casinos are constantly being favored, whatever it is that they are doing to benefit their own business, because this proposal is unacceptable, and the rest of it should no longer be analysed. So that's why we're not going to support it on our side. Thank you. [[19.20]]
u2020-12-14-255	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. I'll ask the Secretary of State again if you'd like to speak now. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-12-14-256	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start now with what I have just finished: thank you for the support work of the committees, which has contributed to the discussion and presentation of this proposal, which is indeed mixed. As always, as in every such case, the basic technical justification for bringing these areas together into a single proposal, a salad is that they belong to the supervision of a minister of supervision or a wallet, so it is professionally logical, but at the same time they are all basically part of the same topic, state property. The rapporteur Member of the Commission discussed in detail the substance of the proposal. Allow me to reflect in this part only on the elements of the bill tabled during the parliamentary hearing, so that the provisions on the clarification of the sections on concessions and the implementation of the necessary investments for the organisation of MotoGP in Hungary have been modified; the rest have also largely created linguistic and legal coherence. As far as casinos are concerned, I'll admit I'm a little out of touch with casino practice. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's comforting!]] I am pro-book and bookstore, but here allow me to respond to the suggestion by saying that according to the relevant provisions, i.e. between 7:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. between these two dates, you must not stay in the casino other than the staff involved in the operation, you must close it at 7:00 p.m. in Hungarian, and during the opening hours, the epidemiological regulations apply to you in the same way as to any other premises or activities or services set up by an audience. On this basis, I respectfully ask this House that T/13672. Please support bill No 1 together with the summary amendment submitted to it. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-257	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at the meeting on Wednesday. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws affecting national security and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/13657. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to the committee rapporteur, Mr Péter Ágh. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 3 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the bill amending certain laws concerning national security. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal to amend certain laws concerning national security is part of a series of legislative proposals aimed at adapting to the legislative environment, increasing operational efficiency or filling possible gaps that have been identified in recent years. In order to achieve these objectives, the proposal opens five laws: XXXIV of 2011 on the registration of foreign armed forces serving in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and the international military headquarters and their personnel established in the territory of the Republic of Hungary and on certain legal provisions relating to their status. Act CXIII of 2011 on defence and the Hungarian Defence Forces and the measures that may be introduced in the special legal order. Act 22; and Act XCVII of 2013 on defence data management, military management tasks related to the performance of certain defence obligations. CXIV of 2018 on the status of defence employees. Act 2; and mention the 2015 XLII on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies. a law which, although applicable to law enforcement bodies, is amended within the framework of this salad law. The amendments will clarify the status of international military headquarters temporarily residing here; rules will be established to improve the legal capacity of international military headquarters; rules will be established for cooperation of the Hungarian Defence Forces with other bodies, especially in the field of disaster protection; rules on entry into military objects will be extended for greater security; rules on the collection, processing of biometric data and comparison of military capabilities with other databases will be introduced; rules on the allocation of working time, working schedules and the exemption of military defences will be changed. The amendments concerning internal affairs complement the system for setting salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, we are discussing a package of laws containing improvements in purpose. With the adoption of these amendments, the legal environment will once again be clarified, modernised and we can provide answers to the problems that arise in practice. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to ensure that the protection of the country, whether it is foreign missions, object protection or disaster response, can be implemented as effectively as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-259	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Németh if he'd like to speak now. [[István Szilárd Németh says no.]] It says no. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. I'll inform you... [[He's gullible for Dezső's signal:]] Yeah, but then again. Congressman Dezső, the notary of the Parliament, MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-12-14-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I believe that I am not the only one with regard to the issue of defence, the subject, the amendment of law, it is not just an ordinary amendment, it is a national matter, at least I am handling it, and I believe that there are many of us so, so we would have liked to have seen that if this issue had been dealt with earlier, even in preparation, because I think that we are once again in a position to smuggle or consciously put in a number of good initiatives that are unacceptable to many people, and, unfortunately, we too have this proposal, so I am suggesting that we will not be able to accept it, although this is certainly not too surprising for the Secretary of State. I would not abuse their patience, so I have only highlighted two issues, and I would like to deal with that a little bit more. One of them is that anyone who has lived in such a community, who has been part of the work there, knows precisely that this is a camaraderie community, and I think that it is a wrong measure to rip away the leaders of this camaraderie community from those who are being led and to come up with a completely different method of financing salaries for them. It is indicated, in this proposal, that the head of the central body and its deputy shall receive a completely different remuneration from that of the other members of the Community. [[19.30]] I would rather have read about the fact that the otherwise unchanged salary base was being dealt with ten years ago. Think about the fact that the salary bill has been unchanged for ten years. I think if we could have dealt with this, we could have gotten ahead of ourselves. I believe and believe that members of this community will certainly look strangely at their leader, who receives his salary from a completely different source and in a different way. I think that the other issue I would like to address is simply not fair. The exploitation of defence workers is, in fact, a group of proposals. One of these proposals is that a 36-month working time frame is being introduced, which in itself is exhausting the concept that I have just said. In addition, I do not think that it is fair to order 150 hours of overtime, and there are two organs where this can be completed by another 150. At times like this, it always occurs to me that there is something unorganized, something unclear, not sufficiently regulated in the background, if we are forced to do so. The unpreparedness of the material is indicated by the fact that I tried to speak to any person who might be considered an expert on the subject, the role of defence liaison could not be properly expressed. In fact, I felt that everyone was guessing what it could be, and so, along with the new regulation, among other things, we will not be able to accept this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-12-14-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Members, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one else is speaking, the debate is closed. Now, I'm going to ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-12-14-262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. The law on the status of defence employees was also published in the detailed debate. I also told you that those who are currently doing their job under the law of defense employees had a free choice whether to take it or not. The acceptance was 99.7 percent. So I think that this speaks for itself, and since then, no problems have arisen either at individual or collective level. Thus, the employer was able to agree with the trade unions representing them as quickly as possible, so the workers who carry out their duties on the basis of this legislation are most likely to be in a better position on the basis of this law, both in terms of salary and employment, satisfied and thank you very much, not asking for anyone's protection here in Parliament. So I don't even know what the basis for the boots on the table is, if I can put it in a bit of a cheesy way. On the other hand, there was no time? The last Defence and Police Committee meeting took place for seven hours. There was a detailed debate here in Parliament, we tabled this bill, this could be read several times, and amendments could have been made to this. The Member did not make any amendments, and no one has lived, there are technical amendments, and I have now looked at it directly again. So I couldn't find a motion that might have been discussed at the TAB. So I think, thanking you, of course, for your comments, because I obviously have to thank everyone for their interest, but I think this is a bit of a communication bluff, which we have heard from MEP Dezső Believing, in circumstances where he began to say that defence is a national matter, but it is clear that the Hungarian Defence and Defence can't count on the support of the MSZP or the Hungarian Left. However, I ask everyone to reconsider tomorrow's vote, because it is indeed a national matter, and please, as we have heard in the Commission's proposal, both its purpose and its means, to support this legislative package with their vote in favour. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Central European Foundation for Education and on the application of assets to the Central European Foundation for Education follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/13660. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-264	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13660, on the Central European Educational Foundation and on the asset allocation to the Central European Education Foundation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. by 24 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear House, The bill proposed in the proposal proposes the establishment of the Central European Educational Foundation and the asset allocation to the Central European Educational Foundation. The aim of the bill is to strengthen and broaden the environment of the Hungarian public education institution system. The proposal provides for the establishment of the Foundation, public interest objectives and tasks related to the establishment. The Foundation's task is to set up and maintain an IBO, i.e. an international maturity organisation as an international organisation, a programme of middle years, a programme or a diploma programme, as well as an IB degree, i.e. an accredited secondary education institution and the associated college, and to ensure the exercise of the founding and maintenance rights of established institutions, the fulfilment of its institutional development objectives and the performance of educational and educational tasks. The resulting educational-educational institution is planned to provide high-quality education for students from the countries of Hungary and the region in a preparatory year of 4+1. We take the most famous English and Swiss samples based on this. The foundation property for the foundation is HUF 2 billion, which will ensure the foundation's establishment and operation by June 2023. As regards the trust rights of the Foundation, it is not necessary to conclude a property management contract. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association supports this bill, because if it was adopted, Hungary and the Hungarian education system would grow with such a high quality secondary education institution, which would open up a very wide perspective for students and young people in Hungary and in the region, while strengthening Hungary's reputation, role and prestige as a regional education centre, even in the spirit of construction in Central Europe, such as V4 and beyond, which is a key goal of the government's national strategy and foreign policy. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal with their votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-14-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Secretary Varga if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. We now have a speech from Members. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, Democratic Coalition, please.
u2020-12-14-266	Mr President, Dear House, The fact is that, unfortunately, the final amendment and the amendments drawn up by the committees do not address the fundamental problem of this bill. [[19.40]] What are we talking about here? This is about the creation of at least an excellent private education institution, which, by the way, will be a wonderful good institution according to your plans. By the way, I believe it will be, because on such terms, with that amount of money, you will surely find dedicated teachers who will make this a high-quality school. And there's nothing wrong with that. Why shouldn't elite schools work in Hungary, otherwise with a high tuition fee, because we also see that they will have tuition fees in dollars or euros in order to be safe, so that no mere mortal on earth thinks that he can pay for this, so why not have elite private schools in this country? There are one or two, and in fact, in itself we would be happy if there were more such institutions, otherwise rich families wouldn't take their children abroad. There is a small problem with this concept, the same as with all the other trust fund funds, which they want to concrete in the Fundamental Law, is that they do it out of public money; they bring in a high-value property, they bring in 2 billion forints, and I'm not going to go through with the entire bill, because this is not the general debate. So we couldn't solve the most important problem: they're making private schools out of public money. It's not okay. If you want a private school, pay for it and run on a market basis. If you want to go to an elite school, a state elite school, I can tell you 25 high schools in Hungary that can raise a lot of quality, it is still very high quality, and it could increase the quality of the training even more if you gave them the value of this money and this property. In other words, state money, your money, taxpayers' money is being spent on making it a better education for rich children. I'm sorry, not only for rich children, because there is no doubt that there is a social basis or other criteria for granting free tuition here, in English, not only for rich children, but also for children who are close to the heart of Fidesz, I'm sorry, and I don't forget KDNP! So I have to say that, in this way, this is theft of public money, in a slightly more complicated way than usual, but in a very similar way as it is with the universities or the many public assets transferred to the Mathias Corvinus Foundation. It is also about how public money can lose its public money character and how it will become a foundation for private purposes and a foundation for political purposes. I would like to tell you, I will also tell you here, in the amendment of the Fundamental Law, whatever the trick is, we will take back this public money, and we will give it back to the Hungarian people, because it is their money and not Fidesz's money. We're gonna find this legal solution, no matter what the tricks are here, no matter what the tricks are with the Basic Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik]]
u2020-12-14-267	Thank you very much. Colleagues, is there anyone else you'd like to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Vargha's giving me a heads-up. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-268	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is only one problem with the Member's speech that it is not a private school and that it is not a private public money. There's nothing at all about that. It is a foundation of public interest, which will be a trustee of a building called the Central European Foundation for Education, which, by the way, you have left it in the state it is in. In addition to the fact that this educational foundation will run a truly elite school in the spirit of Central European identity and Central European thought, it will give a degree and a diploma accepted by two thousand universities in 150 countries, and also a value saved by this foundation as a trustee, since OPNI, the Psychiatric Institute, commonly known as the building and complex of the Lipótmező will be saved by the establishment of the school. Since the starting point is a false school, it is not a private school, so it is a public school, so the Member's speech thus, in this sense, I think it is not and it did not make sense. I ask my fellow Members to support this bill in the vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-269	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the Foundation for the University of Pannonia, the Foundation for the University of Pannonia and the Pannonia University, together with the discussion of the summary amendment proposal, follow up. Government referral T/13675. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, we hear the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-270	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 10 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the Foundation for the University of Pannonia, the Foundation for the University of Pannonia and the T/13675. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 against and 2 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The strategic aim of the Hungarian government is to ensure that Hungarian young people gain competitive knowledge in higher education, better universities, and receive a valuable degree in modern conditions, so that they can successfully, in the possession of a respected profession or profession, take their place in their personal lives and in the labour market. By increasing the international competitiveness and educational standards of Hungarian higher education, Hungary can become a regional centre by building its quality training infrastructure. A model change is needed in line with the principles set out in the Higher Education Strategy in order for universities to be able to deliver quickly, flexible and efficient tasks in line with their own quality expectations and the expectations of the social, cultural, market and knowledge environment. The current operating model hinders universities at several critical points in their ability to function as a service centre that responds to social and economic needs in a flexible way and serves these needs along market processes. Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to further strengthen the role of the University of Pannonia, recognised at domestic and international level, and to act as an institution capable of corporate market cooperation that will also ensure the development and competitiveness of the Central Transdanubian region. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-271	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak now.
u2020-12-14-272	At the end. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-273	Mr Schanda, State Secretary, says that at the end, which may happen soon, there is no speaker at the moment. It's my duty to ask if there's anyone you'd like to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. In this case, Mr Secretary of State cannot reflect, because there is nothing to do, but we would like to hear his opinion. That concludes the debate.
u2020-12-14-274	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for what Mr Ovadi said, and you have very well summarised the bill. I ask that the bill be supported by the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-275	Thank you very much. There you go. [[Defiance.]] I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the establishment of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences, the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences and the discussion on the conditions and resources required for the operation of the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences, and the summary amendment proposal will follow. The government referral is T/13676. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[19.50]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, and this will be done by Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-276	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the establishment of the Foundation for the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences and the conditions and resources necessary for the operation of the Hungarian University of Agriculture and Life Sciences T/13676. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us includes the change of name of St. Stephen's University to the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences, the change of model, the termination of the NAIK and the integration of its departments into the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and other organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, The new name symbolizes both adherence to traditions and innovation in agricultural sciences. The aim of the Hungarian government in higher education is also to provide the opportunity for young Hungarians to gain competitive, internationally recognised knowledge and degrees in a spirit of tradition and innovation. Under the proposal, the maintenance rights of the university will be exercised from 1 February 2021 by the Trust Foundation set up for this purpose. With the student-friendly model change, a new chapter begins in Hungarian agro-higher education. The higher education strategy adopted in 2016 identified the changes that could guarantee the efficiency and competitiveness of our higher education. The change of operational model also leads to a change of perspective, which is particularly needed in agricultural education. Higher education, which plays a role in agricultural education, has to adapt to Hungary's climatic and territorial specifications, economic and labour market expectations, research and development and innovation processes at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, The present draft is supported by the Fidesz-KDNP faction association, because with the transformation Hungarian agro-higher education can enter a new development path and become one of the world's 100 best agricultural sciences universities by 2030, thereby increasing the international recognition and embeddedness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, agricultural education and research. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill tomorrow with their votes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm going to ask Secretary Schanda again, if you'd like to speak now. [[Tamás János Schanda: At the end!]] At the end. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no rapporteur has been presented by the designated Committee on Culture, and that the speeches may come from its representatives. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-14-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, All I have to do is ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-279	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the transfer of certain tasks of the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation to agro-higher education and on the amendment of certain laws on higher education follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/13677. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. A presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee is coming. Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur for the committee, again. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-280	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the transfer of certain tasks of the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation to higher education and the amendment of certain laws on higher education, T/1367. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13677. Bill No. 1 deals with the change of model and related measures of Szent István University, which aims to re-establish the institution, now known as the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences. This bill also includes the integration of the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Centre, the NAIK, which was mentioned in the previous bill, into the Hungarian University of Agricultural and Life Sciences and other organisations, which is integrally linked to the change of model of the institution. From the NAIK as an Agricultural Economic Research Institute, AKI, i.e. Agricultural Economic Institute Nonprofit Limited Liability Company, is established under the direct ownership rights of the Agricultural Ministry. Our aim is to create an institutional system that effectively serves the current and future professional needs of the sector, able to issue a sufficient number of skilled and knowledgeable professionals and leaders, based on a technologically advanced infrastructure and, above all, on a base of economics. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill with your votes in tomorrow's vote. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-12-14-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Schanda? [[Tamás János Schanda: Later!]] We'll function as a regular team, and later. [[Tamás János Schanda: Yes, later. Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! No rapporteur was presented by the designated Cultural Committee. Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-14-282	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, All I have left to do now is ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-283	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/13956. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the opinion of the Legislative Committee. Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-284	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 10 December 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13956 on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. The main objective of the bill before us is to amend the law on national higher education, which will make the regulation more modern. This will allow our higher education institutions to participate more flexibly and with fewer constraints in international research, student exchanges and other international projects. The new regulation also makes funding for higher education more transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to make the launch of higher education courses more flexible, the legislation containing individual higher education courses will be at ministerial level according to the draft and the training and output requirements will be published as official communications. Under the proposal, students who are less qualified in initial education in order to avoid early school leaving may not necessarily have to leave education and can continue to transfer to one of the higher education vocational training courses. [[20.00]] In order to internationalise our higher education, the draft puts the definition of training and output requirements into institutional competence in the case of joint training of programmes from EU funds. The bill includes amendments to the laws that ensure the long-term operation of public-service trust foundations. The aim of the draft is to fill in the regulatory gap in national higher education law with which public and civil legal relations can be well separated. It becomes clear that, as a general rule, the maintenance and owner are identical, one and the same persons. If, on the basis of a civil law agreement, the owner decides to transfer the exercise of the maintenance rights to another person, the owner or the maintainer may legally divorce each other. It has been almost two years since the entry into force of the Education Register Act. The education register is basically successful, but during that time, the experience in the application of the law has shown in some places the need for clarification, which is contained in the bill. The amendment of the Law on the status of civil servants also clarifies the requirements for law-employed persons to determine the salary progression of civil servants to determine the qualification of qualifications, qualifications and qualifications. This option would be available after 1 January 2020 in order to comply with the terms of the National Training Note. The amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts and related laws responds to practical experience and needs in the operation, organizational life of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and aims to implement the strategic plans of the public body. The proposal takes into account organisational stability, the effectiveness of the activities and processes of the public body. In the context of the amendment of the Media Services and Public Communications Act, the media service awards issued by the Media Council will be simplified, the evaluation of these procedures and the rules for determining the result. The rules for paying the media service fee for media services will also be amended according to market needs, and monthly payments will be optional once a year instead of quarterly payments. Furthermore, the proposal includes the promotion of the digital use of works which are a permanent part of the MTVA archive collection in order to make them more accessible and thus better serve the interests of the community. In view of the changes in the media market over the past period, the concept of public media wealth should be complemented by the addition of rights to sport, sports events, media content generated by news agency activities, and content generated through other online media services and additional media services. The Public Service Board shall ensure the provision of public media and news services and its independence. It is of particular importance that constructive, forward-looking decisions be taken instead of obstruction, which is essential for members to be forced to make decisions. In order to facilitate this, abstentions are not possible in the course of a decision, but only yes and no vote may be given. Dear House, The proposal provides for the possibility of becoming a member of the Academy in the event of the intention of the recipient of the National Artist Award and the simplified procedure provided for in the statutes. The special procedure is also in line with the general membership rules, since the general assembly also decides to become a member in this case. In order to enforce this, it is necessary for the legislator to increase the upper limit of the number of ordinary members of the MMA, so that the persons holding the title of Artist of the Nation can become ordinary members. It is proposed that the upper limit of the normal number of members of 250 may be increased to 315 persons. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill with your votes tomorrow. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-14-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary? [[Tamás János Schanda: I would like to reply at the end, thank you very much.]] Yes, thank you very much. Signify Secretary of State that at the end. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Cultural Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин ПредĂседаел, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позвоãлете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинстòвената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you briefly that our committee has declared T/13956 as a minority item. The bill on the regulation of higher education and the amendment of certain related laws was put on the agenda at its committee meeting on 8 December 2020 and the parliamentary decision on certain house rules 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. Having examined the provisions of its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they were in conformity with the rules of the House of Decisions. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make an amendment, so the Committee decided not to submit the amendment closing the in-depth debate. The committee decided to close the detailed discussion of the bill by 13 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against on 8 December 2020. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Overall, T/13956 is listed. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes and proposes amendments to the draft law on the regulation of higher education and amending certain related laws. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2020-12-14-287	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary Schanda, please.
u2020-12-14-288	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to thank the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and ask that the Parliament support the bill. Thank you.
u2020-12-14-289	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the single electronic sales of certain public services and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. Government referral T/13957. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur for the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-290	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13957 on the single electronic sales of certain public services. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[20.10]] Dear Parliament, According to the bill, the wholesale side of mobile payments remains centralised, i.e. the public services concerned remain obliged to join a central mobile payment platform. What is new to the solution so far is that the government does not designate the operator of the platform in a regulation, but that the right to operate the mobile payment platform can be won in a concession procedure for a limited period of eight years. As a background to the proposal, it is important to mention that the national mobile payment system in Hungary has been operational since 2014. The national mobile payment system provides for the possibility of settling public parking, tolls, tolls and passenger tickets via mobile payments through a nationally uniform platform, the national mobile payment system. The concession model under the bill also complies with the judgment of the European Court of Justice and the Hungarian interests represented so far in the case. The main failure of the current system is the exclusive legal designation of the operator of the mobile payment platform. The solution under the bill would remove the legislative designation and open the market would apply to the concession procedure. In this way, it is formally satisfied that any undertaking established in the EU can obtain a concession for the provision of the service if the conditions are met. From a domestic point of view, the advantage of the solution is that it does not represent a taxatological change, i.e. the current single system based on resale would remain in the regulatory sphere, so the introduction of the concession system and any change of operator would not necessarily be perceived by citizens. One of the important elements of the bill is that it provides for both convenience fees for the mobile payment system in force, according to which neither resellers can collect convenience fees from end-users, nor the concession operator can collect convenience fees or resale fees from resellers. On the basis of what has been said, I believe that the bill contains correct and precise provisions, and I therefore believe that it is eligible and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-291	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary. [[Tamás János Schanda: Thank you, I would like to reply at the end.]] Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Members' speeches may follow. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr. Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-292	Mr President, Dear House, As I pressed the button, I got the floor from the President, thank you very much; I was just surprised that I was next. We must say that we have a proposal that has a strange mood. His mood is strange, as these proposals in this form have started to appear before Parliament in recent weeks, and their common characteristic is that they wish to settle various concession rights and different entitlements in a way that extends beyond the current parliamentary term, the proposal before us for eight years. I started my parliamentary career in Parliament's Consumer Protection Committee myself, and in the period 2010-2014, we have mentioned on many occasions that, to say the least, there is something wrong with mobile payment systems, because we have seen not only in the capital, but also at national level, that private companies can realise amazing billion-dollar benefits, while there is only something very minimal coming back from it for the community. Our first concerns about convenience fees can also be raised in 2011. Let's calculate how many billion forints have been realised since then by companies that either had a dubious background, or in absolutely amazing circumstances, certainly not in a fair market economy way. We now have a proposal which, from the following year, would presumably restrict a Fidesz minister's decision-making power to designate a wholesale concession right for 8 years, i.e. eight years, presumably a Fidesz potentate, who will be able to negotiate with his sub-contractors within his own jurisdiction, and in order to make something positive, something tasty in the proposal, it is stipulated on two levels, otherwise quite rightly, the abolition of convenience fees. However, I do not see in itself that the proposer was serious about this. So elections will take place in 2022. None of us are psychics, we can't tell what's coming. I can only promise you a strong promise, which is certainly not a threat, but a promise that if the united opposition side wins this election in 2022, I would not sleep quietly in place of those who receive such a concession for eight years, and in the kitchen, I would not write boxes full of business plans, because the market economy is incompatible with what lies ahead. For eight years, this type of concession should not be given, anti-market and anti-economic, to a likely political player. We also see that the justification is also cowardly, and it brings us to something quite amazing. Because he will refer to a European Union directive and a decision, and the legislator says that he wishes to cement the supposedly close to government entrepreneur for eight years, because he must have sufficient time, space and opportunity to ensure that it is profitable and to realise the expected profit in Hungarian. There are very few businesses in Hungary where, in the very short term, a secure profit can be realised after a transfer take-over, but if there is one, the mobile payment related to the parking business is certainly this. Even a four-year term would be controversial, but I think it would be a big debate, but at the same time, the fact that state assets are being played out to private institutions in the order of a thousand billion, once again, there are some of them whose basic goals I agree with, and I do not agree with this method. In addition, loyal functionaries are appointed to the party for 4-6-8-9 years, now they want to sell concession rights, more precisely to hand over and settle. At the previous item on the agenda, we discussed the fact that among the various initiatives to be given to the Maltese and Philharmonic, perhaps even positive ones, the settlement of concessions for casinos will be smuggled in for another seven-year period, we are talking about billion-dollar businesses, and a thousand-billion-dollar settlement plan will come out of this package for the occasion and time of the Fidesz-KDNP's election defeat. It's about how they can outsource as many assets as possible into a particular structure that they may now think will be more difficult to control. I see that, naturally, any process facing a market economy can be reversed, reviewed, revised, even within the existing legislative framework, so it is not necessarily necessary to introduce a new legislative package. I would like to draw the legislator and the proposer's attention to the fact that, on the one hand, if you are referring to a European Union directive or a decision, you should keep it in mind, and you should not overwhelm it. At the same time, do not try to hide behind the intention of a return when it justifies the eight-year concession option, speak frankly and tell us what this proposal is really about: a new business line, another opportunity to outsource. The reason that scares me the most is the economic policy they call protectionist, because it is neither national nor self-defense nor Christian, it is socially sensitive. I see that all of this is lacking in the world of Fidesz-KDNP, respect for the exception, because there are obviously ordinary Christians, believing people, people who want good for their country, but equally as a party family, the final product is not like this. A fair government that protects its own micro, small and medium-sized businesses would not put such a proposal on the table, allowing the small ones, the domestic players, while not organizing full business for their own oligarchs, not their own well-run billionaire entrepreneurs. I see your reference, and they always say that Lőrinc Mészáros is already the largest employer and that we need a national aristocrat or oligarch layer. I disagree. The fact is, of course, we need national businesses, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but not at the cost of corruption channels, not at the cost of the methodology you have implemented. Just because billionaires are outsourced and named national doesn't mean they represent national interests. It would be in the national interest to put Hungarian smaller companies in an equal position against the multi-interested ones in principle as well, to ensure equal entry conditions for them into the market, to place them at a higher level of entry in the international production value chain; but the fact is that this is not the case. With Audi, a two billion-dollar grant agreement will be concluded, and Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will not be able to make up for the loss in this form. [[20.20]] The various wage support schemes also affect these businesses in a nuanced manner, so we managed to measure only five percent of all Hungarian jobs, so once again, not microscopic, but measurable income support. It's a country or two west of us, where 20-25 percent is the same. I understand that we are talking about other types of farms, and I understand that they have different arrangements and backgrounds, but the economic protection package that exists in Hungary is really microscopic. Nothing shows this better than the fact that the value of the various expenses has been divided into three years, and the three-year data is added to the production report, and they are trying to protect the Hungarian package. The fact is that there are massive failures in the Hungarian market, and when average wage statistics or wage statistics are produced, they typically draw out the KSH statistics from which our fellow countrymen forced to part-time work are left out. They, on the other hand, appear in another stats, more and more people who are missing out on unemployment benefits, and now there are more than 150,000 who do not even qualify for the quoted blessings of the narrow unemployment benefit system. This, therefore, shows the image of the real Hungary, which clearly shows neoliberal economic policy, and the benefit of the lucky ones in the belief that this will take place in all other social groups. All this does not run down, hundreds of thousands of people remain on the side of the road, 13 thousand evictions surround this path, from an amazing Christian-social point of view, like mine, only and only cruel and ruthless in addition to social social policy. So this is Fidesz Hungary, and unfortunately this proposal reflects this, and I therefore see that assisting to outsource another industry would be a sin at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-293	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lárinc, KDNP, here you go.
u2020-12-14-294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We also talked about this in the general debate, but it also seems to my fellow Members that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against Hungary, and then the European Commission has turned to the European Court of Justice, where after a year and a half, it has been found that Hungary's position is wrong and has not been upheld. It therefore condemned the system that had worked until then, and the Court of Justice proposed that the European Commission be only partially correct, and in the judgment delivered it proposes that a concession system be the appropriate measure. We do not say that this was a perfect decision on the part of the European Court of Justice, but that we respect the decisions of the European Court of Justice, we have always respected it. I, by the way, am of the political opinion that I disagree with him. But this is, by the way, the most patriotic solution that we are looking at here, due to a court decision that is supposed to be taken in accordance with foreign interests. Just to clarify, the Court also proposed the concession procedure. And, isn't it, the political memory is short in general, and the phama doesn't say that the sum that was lost from the Hungarian budget is HUF 2853 billion because their allies implemented the DK and MSZP motorways M5 and M6 instead of loans. Economists calculated that if the M5 and M6 motorways had been built on credit, they would have saved the Hungarian budget HUF 2853 billion. [[Gergely Harvester: Of course! Talk about Paks II.]] The government's absolutely unsympathetic economic paper calculated what happened there on the M5 and M6 motorways. Forints 2853 billion could have been spent on what, honourable Member, in terms of job creation, social benefits, development and investment? You can imagine, we're talking about a huge amount of money. When you miss certain measures or the cover of those measures, always remember that you are now conspiring with those who have caused the Hungarian budget to lose HUF 2853 billion. What a huge amount of money we are talking about here, honourable Member. ? We see that in Hungary, the mobile payment system, which has been in place since 2014, has been a national mobile payment system, with which public parking charges, tolls, tolls or passenger tickets can be settled via mobile payment, reducing administrative burdens, bureaucracy and making everyday life easier. This shows that the national mobile payment system currently operates with nearly 4 million users and 90 cities, and we also see that 175 million mobile payments have been made in the national mobile payment system since its launch in 2014. So there is a need for such a service, making life and everyday life easier for people. I very much agree that it is not possible to collect convenience fees from citizens, but once again: this is a court decision, and if we are talking about such things, let us remember what a huge sum it was that cost the socialists and DK's foreign policy friends and Hungarian red barons instead of Hungarian people: HUF 2853 billion. Thank you very much. [[János Schanda applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-295	Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2020-12-14-296	I would like to thank Mr. President for his encouraging gestures...
u2020-12-14-297	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
u2020-12-14-298	Dear House, I have only one question: if you think of the concession in this way, you may not have much idea of this concept, but that is not a problem; if you think of the concession in the way that it has come out of your words, then I would like to ask why you want to introduce a concession here. If you think a concession is such a terrible thing, then why are you doing a concession now? ! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: When did I tell you? 2853!]]
u2020-12-14-299	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not all questions asked in politics and literature have to be answered. [[Defiance.]] So I'm going to ask you if you'd like to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-14-300	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hope there are some questions that should be answered. Dear Parliament, Thank you for the comments made in the committees and for what has been said here in Parliament. Allow me to briefly reflect on the questions and suggestions raised by Mr Z. Kárpat, in particular. On the one hand, I do not know whether a bill may or may not be in the mood, but I do not fully understand what you were trying to say. If it's your doubts, I'll try to clear them all up. On the one hand, I would like to emphasise what Congressman Nacsa said that this is the execution of a European court judgment. The Hungarian government also had a solution to the unblessed situation that we inherited earlier when various private companies provided mobile payment services through non-compatible systems. This resulted in two results: on the one hand, the user suffered because he never knew which service provider he was in, exactly how and how he could use the mobile payment system, and, on the other hand, mobile payment service providers were only worth providing parking services in larger municipalities, i.e. in small settlements it was unavailable. This system had to be changed, the Hungarian Government has also changed, and this proposal has been challenged by the European Commission at the European Court of Justice, and it has indeed partly obliged Hungary to change the regulation. So, honourable Member, when you attack this solution, you are not actually arguing with us, you are arguing with the European Court of Justice on the one hand, and on the other hand you are crying back at an earlier system that was neither good for the service providers nor suitable for the municipalities. I would urge you to think about this again and to acknowledge that the Hungarian Government's intentions are fair and we want a solution that can provide the most convenient service for both the local authorities and the Hungarian people. In principle, it is also clear and clear that part of the European Court of Justice judgment shows that the European Court of Justice is proposing a concession. [[20.30]] On the other hand, as much as we think, but, Mr President, there is always the opportunity to come up with even better proposals, we do not see a solution other than the concession system that is able to ensure both the competition required by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice and, otherwise, the uniform universal service. If you can make a proposal that can ensure that the Hungarian people will benefit at the same time and comply with the competition, then it is a pity that you have kept this from us, but it would be my suggestion that you will definitely share it with us. We see no other solution; it is the only solution that we do not necessarily like, we do not do in good spirits, but the only one that meets both aspects. He has formulated serious critical sentences for the eight years and, moreover, I think, honourable Member, that you are seeing horrors and, in part, that you are talking about your desires. This is rarely achieved at the same time, but you have succeeded, because when we set an eight-year concession period, it is not because it could not be determined otherwise, or it could not be defined shorter or longer, but we had to seriously calculate the period for which we could meet the requirements of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, that is to say, a system of reimbursement, because the concession model only works if it is repaid. Eight years is not a long time, but a very short time, it is a very short time, that is the case, honourable Member. If you are aware, by the way, of the technological development costs involved, the IT, communication and other technological costs arising from a transition, a system change, you can see that this is not, in principle, a long period of time and, moreover, it is not possible to create a return model within a shorter period. The Member also made comments on the convenience fee. Here, in the general debate, I have already said that we have already agreed that the abolition of the convenience fee is necessary, there has been no debate between us, but during the period of an ongoing judicial procedure, it is impossible to touch the regulation. So that's the reason, and now we can, and we have. Congressman, the thing is, you basically don't understand the operation of the concession, which I'm surprised to see. You said that one of the ministers would decide who's gonna be the constable. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Congressman, you do not understand the essence of the concession, which is odd, by the way, because you work in the committees where I think you might know this, and in the course of previous debates, I assumed that you knew the essence of the concession competition: it is not an appointment, it is a competition. It is about looking at which company provides the best possible service at the cheapest possible price. That is what the concession is about, and it is about competitive tendering, honourable Member, so there is no designation of any kind. Your language is completely wrong, and it seems to me that you don't understand how the system works. And that, honourable Member, I must completely refuse and allow me, for the record's sake, to state that I find it unacceptable that you are threatening entrepreneurs who have won a competitive procedure as a Member of Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] You said that, by the way, when you have a chance to do that, we can be sure, and that you will not have to take this threat too seriously by looking at Jobbik's support, if you go to the government, then those entrepreneurs who run this concession contest will be accounted for, and you will take this opportunity back from them, by the way. Congressman, it is my respectful request that you do not do this, because you are neither worthy of a Member of Parliament nor worthy of you. We could have long debates on protectionist economic policy. We believe that we are also creating a regulation here, which is the best possible regulation for the Hungarian interest, which we can establish in the present construction. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that it is difficult to talk to you about protectionist economic policy, and it is difficult to take you seriously when you are in the middle of meeting with the supplier of global capital. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-301	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on energy and waste management and the final amendment proposal follow up. Government referral T/13958. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The opinion of the Legislative Committee shall be the first to be heard in the debate. The rapporteur was Mr Tamás Herczeg. You have the floor, please.
u2020-12-14-302	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I think there are areas of life beyond literature and politics where it may not be necessary to answer all the questions, but on the question or request that I state the position of the Legislative Committee on the agenda, it is obviously necessary and appropriate, so I will do so. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13958 amending certain laws on energy and waste management. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, One of the main objectives of the amendment to the Waste Management Act is to clean the country from waste that has been laid down for several decades, and to place the entire waste management sector under a much stronger regulatory control by ensuring an adequate system of penalties for waste infringements. It is important to prevent the recycling of illegal waste and to provide the basis for adequate waste management, and to ensure the quality assurance of the sector in order to ensure that the waste management target system is implemented more fully, and to do so, an appropriate organisational forum should be set up. It is important to mention that from the point of view of waste management, the proposal has a domestic background to the climate and nature conservation action plan. By adopting the objectives set out in the Action Plan, the Government has expressed its determination to take measures that contribute to reducing waste generation, preventing illegal waste disposal and creating value from waste, which, I believe, should be supported in all respects. In addition, the proposal establishes a new concession model for the waste management sector. In order to comply with the relevant EU Directive, the draft introduces a system of redemption for beverage packaging, consisting of vending machines and manual relays, in which the purchaser receives the fee for plastic, aluminium and glass packaging products. It is proposed that, in future, the State will establish and operate a compulsory redemption fee scheme for certain products in order to ensure that the re-use of products and the treatment of waste produced from products and their packaging is carried out in a national, uniform, integrated system. In addition to waste management, the bill includes amendments to the legislation on district heating, electricity and gas supply. Further amendments to the energy legislation are justified by procedural corrections made on the basis of the experience of the Authority, which primarily facilitate the efficient and rapid exercise of its renewable energy-related tasks, as well as by legal harmonisation obligations. [[20.40]] On the basis of what has been said, I believe that the bill contains important and forward-looking provisions, and I therefore believe that it should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-303	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak to me now. [[Tamás János Schanda: End of discussion. Thank you very much.]] At the end of the debate. I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Members' speeches may follow. Anybody want to tell me? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-14-304	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Then all I have to do is thank the Parliament for its work and ask for the kind support of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-305	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of judicial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Government referral T/13648. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Mr László Salacz, rapporteur for the committee. He's got the floor. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-306	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13648 amending certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 10 votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us amends a number of laws on the subject of justice. These are partly technical and partly substantive amendments, some of which I would like to highlight. One of the most important elements of the bill is the re-setting of the notary tender procedure, since the rules in force are incomplete and most of the detailed provisions on the tendering procedure are set out in the guidelines of the Chamber. The establishment of the legislative framework and the creation of a ministerial regulation for the conduct and professional evaluation of the application will facilitate the filling of notaries' seats and posts with the most professional candidate within the deadline. The bill provides for assistance to retired judicial staff as well as close relatives of judicial staff and retired judicial staff by amending the law on the service of judicial staff. In the future, the judicial body may provide a retired judicial staff with social and funeral benefits and a funeral allowance for close relatives. The proposal contributes to the development of the domestic system of victim support. The state's top priority is to alleviate and eliminate material, moral and psychological harm caused by crime. The primary task of victim support and victim protection is to reduce the individual effects and costs of the crime, the overall social impact of which is the improvement of the mental state of our society. The aim is to set up a victim support system to support as wide a range of victims as possible, thereby achieving the desired social impact. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the law on debt settlement for natural persons serve, on the one hand, to ensure consistency between the provisions of the law and, on the other hand, to simplify the procedure, eliminating the difficulties in applying the law in practice. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend certain laws on the subject of justice in order to make use of the practical experience of the past period and to facilitate the application of the law and to ensure that the laws are in line with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. In view of what has been said, the tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-307	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Secretary Völner if he'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] It says no. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. The first among these will be Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-308	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already talked about in the general debate, there is a salad law before us, in which about twenty laws are changing. We always have our opinions on salad laws, and here we have to acknowledge that there is some connection, because there is a judicial issue of all. But it's like a mixed salad, so there's good things in it, and there's bad things in it, and there's backwards. Unfortunately, such a salad law is negative because obviously there are parts that we would like to support, and there are parts in it that are not eligible for this law, and obviously because we are going to vote on it at the same time, so this is a bit of a problem. Obviously, I want to highlight not only the bad, but for example, some centralisation, changes in ministerial powers, supervisory powers, appointment powers, and the minister's powers are strengthened in everything. So this obviously fits into the overall picture that the Orbán government has been trying to achieve in Hungary for 11 years, continuous centralization and the less hands-free focus on all areas are always trying to get power, control, and the final word out into their own hands. This is what is happening in this area, although in the general debate at the time, the Secretary of State said that the opinion of the notary Chamber was requested. I believe that some of it is agreed by the notary chamber, but I am sure that you do not agree with one part of it, the proposals here. Like I said, good and bad fight in this bill. Then, for example, to highlight a positive point: the law on the status of judicial staff is certainly a step forward; the introduction of the concept of retired judicial staff is certainly a step forward; so is social support, either in their case or in the case of prosecutorial staff, the provision of burial aid and social assistance. It has to be acknowledged that it is positive in any way. However, I no longer have such a positive view of the court organisation. There is also a continuous centralization on the part of the government, and there is clearly an ongoing 11 years of efforts by the government as executive power to bring judicial power under its control as much as possible. Many steps have been taken in Hungary over the last 11 years. This, too, fits a little bit into this, and now it is moving forward with smaller steps, but I see that we are also at a very important point here, as the decisions of the legal unit, the assessment of complaints of the legal unit, the composition of the members of the Board of Complaints, the increase in the power of the President of the Curia, the greater focus in his hands can also be observed here. Thus, the president of the mansion, who was obviously appointed against the opposition parties by Fidesz from 1 January in the person of András Zsolt Varga, will have an even greater opportunity to influence the decisions of the legal unit with this law, or to personalize the legal unit complaints councils, who will be included in this, because in recent years there has been an effort by the government to transform the continental legal system a little bit, and to move towards such an American or Anglo-Saxon system may not be certain that this is a good process, i.e. the precedent system. Obviously, the role of legal unit decisions will increase significantly in the future, and obviously these decisions will ring down to the level of the district court, so that practically the Curia President can have an impact on the functioning of the lower courts through legal unit decisions. Where appropriate, this may also affect judgment. So I think that here the full autonomy of the courts must be allowed, and this must be preserved, and this process, which can be observed in this law, is contrary to the ideas of the rule of law. So this is also a point that we believe is unacceptable. [[20.50]] I don't understand either, and I definitely see a step backwards here when the terms of adoption are being tightened up. Obviously, the fact that unfit persons cannot adopt children is a very important thing, and I understand when it comes to tightening up. I think that in Hungary the system is working quite well in this regard, and the social services itself are looking very carefully at who it comes to, and the legal conditions themselves are well developed, so that there are few cases where we can actually talk about the fact that, after an adoption, only harmful processes are taking place. What is the child's interest? Obviously, it is in the interest of the child who is about to be adopted to grow up in a family as little as possible. Now, in itself, the fact that adoptive parents are married, or only in a partnership, I think that the 21st century is the case. This should not be relevant in the first century. One should be examined that those parents, that family, were able to raise the child in love, honor, or not fit to do so. If it's appropriate, I don't think it should be made dependent on paper. I think that this is a step backwards and a misstep by the government, that this has also been included in this legislation. Unfortunately, as I said, good and bad are fighting in this salad law, but there are proposals for amendments that are not in any way eligible, so unfortunately, we will press the non-voting vote at the end when the decision is taken. In many cases, we regret it because we would like to vote, but unfortunately, this is the overall fault of the salad law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-14-309	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Anybody want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-12-14-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say that I would like to thank you very much for your comments on the subject and I am sorry if you cannot support the presentation. One thing I would like to clarify is that the President of the Curia was not appointed by Parliament against opposition parties, but, in fact, to have the President of the Curia. The fact that you could not support it is another issue, but I do not think in itself that the handling of complaints or the creation of a legal unit is affected by this issue. Thank you again for your comment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-311	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain electoral laws and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. The government referral is T/13679. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. I give the floor first to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-312	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 10 December 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/13679 on the amendment of certain electoral laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions. Dear House, The election of the Members of Parliament for 2018 and the practical experience of the election of the local government representatives for 2019, as well as the Constitutional Court 22-2020. The provisions of the present proposal justify the drafting and incorporation into our legal system of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, CCIII of 2011 on the election of Members of Parliament. Law 8. Pursuant to the amendment of paragraph 1 of § 1, a party list may be established by a party that has appointed a single candidate in at least 14 counties and at least 71 individual constituencies in the capital. In the past, it was enough in 27 single-member constituencies to appoint a single candidate for a party to set up a national party list. However, taking advantage of this regulation, a number of non-socially supported dwarf parties have used state aid for listing not only to finance expenditure during the election campaign period. The State Audit Office also identified these abuses in a separate report. However, by setting up 71 individual candidates as the criterion for setting up the national list, it will be ensured that only parties with real social support can set up a national list and, on the other hand, it will provide an opportunity to take action against nominating organisations whose sole purpose is to launch candidates in order to obtain electoral aid, by abusing electoral rules. It should be stressed that the government has drawn the conclusion that the opposition has made the most loudly, that we need stricter requirements for start-ups in order for someone to receive campaign support. Campaign funding rules provide opportunities for abuse for small parties and so-called fake parties. Furthermore, the regulatory guarantee is that if the number of individual candidates of a nominating organisation with a list falls below the number indicated by law, the list should be deleted. It should be stressed that it is justified and necessary to amend the electoral law, and this does not affect the issue of opposition cooperation. The amendment of the electoral law is only possible until 1 January 2021 before the next election, which is why the government has now drawn up the proposal. Dear Parliament, The proposal also envisages resolving the issue of immunity. Under the rules in force, candidates for Members of Parliament continue to have immunity. However, the candidate quality will be terminated by election. However, the regulation is not complete for unelected individual and list candidates. While the candidate's quality with the election ceases to exist for the former, the list candidates who have not obtained the mandate will remain on the list, and later they will be able to obtain a mandate when a list is vacant, i.e. they will not actually cease to be candidates. However, maintaining immunity in this way will provide an opportunity for its abusive application during this period. The draft law therefore makes a very forward-looking statement that, at the same time as the electoral result becomes legal, the immunity of candidates for elections will be abolished. In the application of domestic law, there is no consensus that if only the vote is repeated, which standards should be applied and which should not be applied. Therefore, the draft law rightly states that during the repetition of the vote, the ballot counting committee may be replaced, and candidates and organisations entitled to delegation may also delegate members to a ballot counting committee in which we did not delegate at all during the repeated vote. If only a part of the electoral districts repeats the vote and a list or candidate is eliminated in the meantime, the votes cast in the electoral districts not affected by the repetition on the day of the original vote shall be deemed invalid on the day of the original vote. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table is without prejudice to the general, equal, secret and direct nature of suffrage, which is a very strict constitutional requirement. As a result of the rules laid down in the cardinal law, the purity and freedom of choice remain intact, which is one of the essential criteria of the rule of law. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-313	Thank you very much. A minority opinion will now be presented in a 7-minute timeframe. Congressman Gergely Harvesto will tell you. Here you go.
u2020-12-14-314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are in a particular situation that the amendments made in the Legislative Committee and before it in the Committee have changed the bill in different directions; in the sense that certain provisions have made the original proposal more transparent and indeed serve the technical conduct and fairness of the election, other proposals have not improved, but have made this situation worse. [[21.00]] Once again, we can say this in the debate of the electoral law that, in a well-established, well-functioning democracy, electoral laws are common rules that everyone accepts and at least one substantive conciliation precedes their submission. In this way, it can be avoided that the majority of governments at all times are suspected of being sardines in such cases. One of the issues has already been addressed by my fellow Member. I would like to say that we have a slightly less positive appreciation for the fact that suddenly you think that 71 individual candidates will guarantee that there are no fake parties here. We do not quite understand that, by the way, two weeks ago, when the bill was a general debate, it was thought that 50 is a good point, 49 is a little short, 51 is a lot. They went to the Justice Committee, and suddenly they found a hired representative who said it was 71; they hit them in the head, and they said, "Whoa, 71 would be better than 50." We must say that the fundamental problem with no valid justification is that there is no valid argument as to why the rules are being changed. However, the stability of electoral rules is essentially of value in itself. It must be touched if there really is a public interest in this. And when you say that it's so that the fake parties don't disappear with money like the former pharmacist, then I can tell you that you will make sure that if such a fake party or a small party can collect the recommendation in the 71 district, perhaps with the help of other parties, but I have already said my opinion about it in the general debate, then you will raise your support well, and there is an amendment that suddenly says, okay, but then he will receive 40 percent of the support. In other words, if I am benevolent and I do not assume that you want to create fake parties in parentheses: but it is still about making it easier for parties such as your favourite party in opposition quotes, our country, your higher consciousness and small brother, or the not-of-the-class two-tailed Dog Party to move in a self-righteous way, to take opposition votes. The more areas you run, the more money you give. I must say, therefore, that this regulation is only for this purpose; otherwise, there is no other reason behind it. What is immediately mentioned in the second recommendation point is the question of constituencies. This is a more difficult question, because on one side, this amendment, proposed by the Dialogue, otherwise this amendment will put an end to a violation of the law. In this respect, it is certainly welcome. But I just wanted to ask you, didn't you, by the way, read what the EP put on the table this summer? You didn't see him? When the bill was submitted, did they not have the data relating to the size of the constituencies and did they not have this kind of constituencies? It wouldn't have been healthier if, by the way, you'd have seen the need for this technical amendment in Pest County in order not to have disproportionately large constituencies, it would normally have been in front of Parliament; and, I add, we would have had the opportunity, for example, to consider, discuss alternatives, to see that there are other solutions, to say, not to be born, to include among the otherwise freakish Pest County constituencies, for example, the excellent solution where the settlements of Szentendrei Island belong to Dunakesi or Vác - these will be ferry constituencies, apparently, and not to Szentendre, which would otherwise be much more tangible. But I can say the same thing about the Dabas-centred constituency, which will be about a 50-minute drive between the two ends, which is not justified at all in the relatively densely populated Pest County. With regard to further amendments, I would like to briefly draw the attention of this House to a few amending points. Among these, I would like to mention the rule, if I remember correctly, that is Amendment 12, where better quality technical regulation... applies to media service providers and advertising in the cinema and the like. There was better-written legislation, otherwise politically neutral. However, the Legislative Committee has now deleted this for some incomprehensible reason. At the same time, I would like to point out that there is always a right to see what is positive. Positively, the rules on public campaigning have been included. Now that some of the public spaces belong to the opposition, it suddenly became important for you to have this normal, fair regulation, but that's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, and it's also important that you're out, if I remember correctly, the 14th recommendation point, the rule that would have allowed you to take pictures of the ballots. I would add that the current rule does not say that it cannot be photographed, but leaves it to the election committee and the Curia to consider. So legal uncertainty is maintained, but at least it doesn't encourage, support, make election fraud clear. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I would like to mention that it has not been altered or improved, namely the rule that requires the integrity of the internal envelope in the case of cross-border ballots and thus identification in a convincing way, so it will remain possible or it will be possible to abuse letter votes. Finally, it is only from an aesthetic point of view that a significant part of the amendments are legal codification amendments which the government might have been willing to discuss before the submission. Because there are about 20 amendments where precise references and the wording of the paragraphs are proposed to be modified by the Legislative Committee. It is right, of course, for the legislation to be well formulated, but perhaps this should not be improved in the legislative committee. Overall, we can therefore say that the amendments have positive and negative elements. At the same time, the proposal is still not acceptable from the opposition side. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-12-14-315	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if the author would like to speak. [[For signal:]] At the end, Mr. Secretary Völner. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2020-12-14-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform you briefly that our committee has declared the T/13679 as a minority item. Act No 44-45 of the Parliamentary Resolution on certain house rules was put on the agenda at its committee meeting on 24 November 2020. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee of the bill is the resolution house rule 32. In its notification pursuant to § 2 (2) in his announcement (Sic!) Having examined its stated provisions, it concluded that they comply with the rules of the House of Decisions 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make an amendment, so the Committee decided not to submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. The committee decided to close the detailed discussion of the bill on 24 November 2020 by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. The report on the detailed debate was adopted by 12 votes in favour, with no abstentions and no votes against. At the same time, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary was pleased to note that the National Election Office has been open to the proposals of our committee and is also trying to incorporate them into the draft legislation, thereby facilitating the enforcement of national electoral elections. [[21.10]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Overall, T/13679 is listed as follows: The amendments contained in the bill amending individual electoral laws are welcomed and proposed by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-317	Thank you very much, Mr Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, notary, MSZP.
u2020-12-14-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here we are in the summation of the amendment debate, and at second reading, the question must be asked whether this legislation could be improved, it could be improved here by the amendments so that it could be supported, and I very much agree with Gergely Arató that there is no customary amendment of electoral laws in this way. So here, frankly, at the beginning of the submission, the circumstances of that are outrageous at a level that obviously raised serious doubts in the ranks of the opposition at the very first moment. The basic conditions of the political struggle are governed by electoral laws, and I think that it would have been elegant and desirable that such a law could have been created as a result of the conciliation between the factions, which, for example, at a good time, would have asked a long process of what the individual factions and political forces would see as necessary. That didn't happen. We can remember that a Tuesday at midnight there was an emergency in the country, more specifically the Parliament extended this emergency on a Tuesday day, and as it happened in the afternoon hours here at the Parliament, some 36 laws were submitted under this cover, and this legislation was among them. As my fellow Member, Mr Arató, said, has, of course, improved on certain points, not necessarily from your good intentions, but this legislation has improved, and, in fact, there is progress in the area of photographability of ballot papers and in the areas of the Pest county districts. But, overall, the situation does not change, which was a cardinal question here in the general debate, that there is a difference between voters across the border, for example, according to the fact that they have a home address in Hungary at a time and in circumstances where it could be avoided in a simple way that our fellow countrymen who are staying abroad, but who have a home address in Hungary, might vote more easily by letter, and do not necessarily have to make the long distances of a large country to reach an embassy. Whatever we have said in the debate or in previous years, we do not see it in this legislation, so it is very difficult to make a comprehensive positive statement about this in any sense. But what I would like to say here, in conclusion, as an evaluation, is that I think that, even in circumstances that have been unilaterally created, because you have also created the original electoral laws unilaterally, even in these circumstances, even if it is difficult or difficult, but I think that the change of government will come in 2022, at least we will be working on it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A statement from the opposition: Bravo! Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2020-12-14-319	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-12-14-320	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We can say for our part, Jobbik, that there really was no social debate, discussion, debate between factions on this issue in advance, and I think that it would have been in any event if I did not expect chivalry from Fidesz-KDNP, because we did not experience this during the legislative process, but at least at some level, because it concerns the whole of Hungarian society, I think it is an election law, and here we should also involve the opposition in such a proposal, and not just as a fact put forward a completely ready proposal here at the end of the year, precisely at the time of the publication of the emergency. They didn't even take the liberty in this case, like when the foundation of this law was established, at least they set up a pretend committee, a ad hoc committee, a ad hoc committee preparing a new electoral law, at least in it, there was a social debate and the rest of it, we just got it here, that's all, and then we accept it. And obviously, we are also used to the fact that if you propose any amendments to the opposition here, you will not be able to accept them; well, you can obviously say here that János Volner is a serious opposition, an independent representative, obviously, and his has been accepted, but I will discuss this later. Returning to this Volner proposal, we did not agree when you submitted the original legislative amendment proposal, when you raised the number of candidates in the single-member constituency from 27 to 50 in order to be able to start a party list in the elections. Obviously, you have tabled this amendment on the grounds that parties with real social support can only make a national list. And all of a sudden, I've been thinking again about their bill of imprisonment, and I'm sensing a metaphor between the two laws, because you're trying to eliminate your own mistake by trying to push responsibility on opposition parties. After all, even in prison congestion, your failure to legislate and your government failure resulted in the payment of HUF 9.5 billion in compensation to the prisoners, and it was also your government's fault that the fake parties were able to use billions of dollars in a single election that was withdrawn from the state budget, taking away the public funds. And then, as you have taken this seriously, you can see the check that happened after how the fake parties were accounted for, how much money were recovered from those unauthorized billions; there was no political, government effort to really hold the fake parties accountable here. What is the purpose of this new amendment, obviously? The aim is to freeze the current political situation, in fact to prevent a new organisation from entering the Hungarian Parliament, and to create the current political situation, the current governing parties and opposition parties, and virtually nobody can get into it from outside. I believe that this is fundamentally contrary to the spirit of the Fundamental Law, which is obviously contrary to the rule of law, to a democracy, because it precludes large masses of people from being able to establish a new party at parliamentary level, at legislative level, to get it into Parliament. For as long as there were only 27 individual candidates, and they had already been able to set up a national list, a party was able to reach a level where they noticed that there was social support behind it, perhaps by the end of the next four-year cycle it was able to grow up and raise itself. Now very few parties have the chance to do so, which is currently not a parliamentary party, there is no serious organization behind it, that, indeed, on the basis of János Volner's proposal, which was immediately accepted and taken over by the committee, which raises the number of districts to 71 in order to be a national list, or to have an individual candidate in 14 counties or in the capital, this is no small task for the small parties. I think that this would certainly not be a problem for the vast majority of the parties in Parliament now, and obviously in the last ten years we have seen that most parties have been able to put up so much, but the emergence of a new movement will be much more difficult, and we believe that this is fundamentally anti-democracy, and that it cannot be supported in any way, because small parties or even regional interests that are actually fighting for real political goals... which I do not think is in Hungary, but there can be a demand for this at any time. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: National List!]] The fact that parties will be set up at regional level will not be able to establish a national list. [[21.20]] Here is also what has already been raised, the question of the letter vote, which we were hoping would be some kind of amendment. This bill also touched on the question of voting letters, but unfortunately not in such a way as not to distinguish between citizens and citizens. After all, citizens who do not reside in Hungary have only the right to vote by letter. Indeed, there is a strange contradiction that, in the case of a Hungarian citizen working abroad, the Hungarian citizen of Debrecen and the Hungarian national of Debrecen can vote in one letter, and the other cannot vote in a letter, because Csíkszereda does not belong to Hungary at the moment, and his permanent address is a Hungarian address not currently declared under Hungarian law, so he can vote in a letter. While the other citizen who has a permanent address in Debrecen doesn't live there because he works abroad and can't vote. We obviously think this is an old debate between us, the ruling parties and the opposition. We consider it fundamentally against the rule of law that it differentiates between Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens in the exercise of civil rights. It would've been nice to have a move in this one. Obviously, we see that it is in the government's basic interest that, if one of the social groups has his support, he will be given the opportunity, while where there is more of a minority of government support, and that they will try to keep him from exercising his right to citizenship. Obviously, this is the government's intention to see in this measure, and there is no change in that. So basically, we see that there are minor positives in the shift, but there are also processes that move in a particularly negative direction in this bill. For our part, we cannot support this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-12-14-321	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-12-14-322	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to one or two of the half- or misinformations that have been said. We are going through the issue of submission many times, Mr Varga has brought it up now. You know perfectly well that in order to be able to adopt a law on a regular timetable in the last week of the autumn session, the last deadline for submission was 10 November, the last day. By the way, no one knew before one-two-three-five-eight-ten weeks, when they began to work on these billings, that on that day the Parliament would declare an emergency, because the epidemiological situation was so. The laws weren't prepared that day, obviously that's what you think, but long ago, weeks, months ago. But if you calculate the Parliament's legislative agenda and know exactly what you are as a notary, then you know exactly that in order to accept something in the autumn parliamentary session in this calendar year, the last deadline for submission is 10 November on a regular schedule. And I find it particularly humorous that you think that a congressman can do anything or anything a government can do, but he can't submit a law, he can't exercise his right to submit a law. You also question the government and question the right of a Member of Parliament to submit a bill to Parliament using the rights guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. This bill, including the original amendment and the amendment proposed by Congressman Volner, is even more against the fake parties. Don't tell me that the amendment where the original government intention is to start 71 or 50 places should not be against the fake parties, it must be a party with serious support, possibly an activist network, and thus we can push it out: this is the common goal of all of us, we have already taken steps in this direction, this is another important step in the fight against fake parties. All of you, you've said these accusations to us on several occasions, that we need to act more decisively against the fake parties. Csaba Gyüre refers to the fact that the regional parties, which is currently not in Hungary, are unable to start at any time. So, Congressman, you were talking about national listing. I'm a regional party association... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre:...and the county list?]] Anyone who can start in a single mandate constituency can enter the parliament from a single mandate constituency, this is a national list, we are talking about political parties and divisions covering the whole country. That is particularly humorous, honourable Member, when you try to pin this on us, that you will join forces with Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Dr. Csaba Gyure laughs.]] He says that we are forcing you as a free man, a free-willed man and a party to join forces and ask Ferenc Gyurcsány for a seat on the list. That, Congressman, is your decision and your decision of conscience, so don't blame us. I believe it feels bad, I believe you'll regret it. Don't blame us for this. [[Gergely Harvesto: You won't regret it!]] If Gergely Arató says so, you can be very sure. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The question of voters across the border has been raised on several occasions. You, even Jobbik, are getting involved several times in Hungarian voters across the border. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: When?]] We know precisely that Hungarian citizenship is the determining factor for the existence of suffrage, but at the same time voters can exercise their rights in several ways. Hungarian citizens entitled to vote who have their residence in Hungary will cast their votes personally in the electoral district of their place of residence, if they are otherwise residing abroad on the day of the vote, then the law guarantees them the possibility of voting at foreign representations. The big difference is that these voters also vote for a party list, and they choose from among the candidates in the constituency of their place of residence, because they have a registered address in Hungary, so the representatives in the constituency according to their declared address, who we would like to entrust to them the management of their constituency, the crafty and difficult affairs of their narrower residential environment, can vote for them as well. By the way, I'd like to note quietly that there are 50 more foreign representations to vote today than you did when you were on the government, because you closed the embassies and your foreign representations, and we reopened them. Compared to 2010, there are 50 more places in the world where you can vote at foreign representations. However, in the case of a foreign address, the concept of the electoral district cannot be interpreted and the candidate for the single mandate in the constituency cannot be interpreted, so that foreign nationals can cast their votes by letter and because they do not have the individual candidate, they can vote for the list only. Understand this, ladies and gentlemen, that is the big difference. In this respect, it doesn't matter because they always refer to the fact that a Hungarian address is in London or in Csíkszereda or Australia, because all citizens who do not have a Hungarian address are subject to the same rules, it doesn't matter whether we are talking about a Hungarian brother from across the border or a Hungarian citizen who works abroad and has an address there. The difference is that they only vote for a list, and who has a home address in Hungary, it could obviously vote for the local individual candidate. We've told you these distinctions many times, but every time the electoral law comes up, they throw them at our heads. It is particularly humorous, when the lack of coordination or the rapid, determined and strong or according to you, talk about a dictatorial amendment to the electoral law, you know very well that there was a seven-party consultation with the National Election Committee and the National Election Office, many of you were present at this meeting. There was an arrangement anyway. If, in the last thirty years, there has been no consultation on electoral law, when, for example, you have abolished the two-round municipal election with overpower and eliminated conflicts of interest between mayors and representatives, when we had to re-introduce it between 94 and 98, Commissioner Arató remembers it or can recall it from his readings. Now, that was a dictatorial amendment to the electoral law, there was no negotiation or anything else. The fight against fake parties has been taken into account before, and here is an opportunity. You can vote in favour of us acting together against the fake parties, because the person who can put up individual candidates in 71 places, in 14 counties and in the capital, I think there's a very, very, very good chance that they're not fake parties. [[Gergely Harvesto: Let's make a bet.]] I can't rule out the fact that someone is organizing this, but I'm sure there's a much less chance that they'll be able to run for fake parties than before, that's for sure. I ask you that if you want to take action against the fake parties, if it is important to have clarity and transparency of choice, if these values are important, then you should make a different decision than your speech has now shown and vote for this amendment tomorrow, because it is in the common interest of all of us to be clean about the election and to take action against the fake parties. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[21.30]]
u2020-12-14-323	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next speaker is Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2020-12-14-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Congressman Nacha, I'd like to respond very quickly to your comments. November 10 is not the primary problem in this story, but the fact that they did not start, let us say, in early October or in September, because then we could have come to a common position otherwise. That's what we miss anyway. And as much as you are twisting the words on the cross-border issue, our position is very clearly that we should make it easier for our fellow countrymen with a Hungarian address but who are abroad on the day of the vote to vote. That's what we said the whole time, we didn't say anything else. We said that they could vote not only at foreign representations, but also on conditions such as those with no address, with appropriate guarantees and letters. These are the two important positions. So you don't have to get in the middle of this, these two things are something that could have been handled otherwise during the submission of the law. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-12-14-325	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. The next speaker is Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP.
u2020-12-14-326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to answer and respond to my fellow Member Nacsa, because it is quite amazing to hear the spirited propaganda comment that he can now say from wrists and without paper, but that does not make it true. My fellow Member says that we do not criticize the circumstances of the submission, and that by criticizing it, we dare to speak out, we question the right of the government or a Member of Parliament to legislate. Dear fellow Member, No one's questioning anything. We say, and we claim that in a normal country, we call it any arrangement, in a normal country, about the electoral law, the parliamentary parties first agree and, at best, jointly submit and accept it, because once one side and then the other side comes to power, and in this respect, the rules of the same and accepted by everyone are almost more important than what the rules of the game are. Compared to this, you lecture us that the government has a right and that they did not start drafting this law on 10 November. I just watched the government's autumn legislative program on Parliament.hu. Here, the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice were able to state in advance two pieces of legislation that they wanted to deal with, the Civil Procedure Act and the Prison Crowded Compensation Procedure Act. That's what's on the fall schedule. Are you trying to tell me, Congressman, that the Ministry of Justice, the Government and Fidesz had no idea in September that at the fall session, which is the last moment that this law can still be legally amended, you want to start it? Not at all! That's cynicism, my fellow Member. And what's more cynical is that they use this tool to handle this at the last minute, hiding it from the people, cutting off the opposition and the voters in this respect, and you point out to us who we're taking away what right we have here? What right can we take, Congressman? What right? They bring him in here, they put what they want in there, they vote for it, and then they go home. What can we take from this? But I'm gonna have to ask them to point a finger at us. And there's the secretary of state who can confirm it, so the next thing you know, cynicism is that he calls it a seven-party settlement, which was at the time the president of the National Election Office, the NVI? You think it was a seven-party negotiation that had anything to do with this bill and you? At that meeting, NVI put a professional proposal on the table, which you sent to the Ministry of Justice, which was announced publicly by Ilona Pálffy. Compared to this, a letter has not been written in this proposal, almost nothing has been written in it from that proposal, but it is also broadly correct that nothing, but nothing, is important. So please don't say that it was a seven-party negotiation, because it had nothing to do with it, Ilona Pálffy called in the leaders of the parties and said good-bye to them. I'll add, the leader of the Fidesz faction wasn't even able to thank you for your work, but obviously you'll sort that out and tell each other what the reason was. But it is a fact and it is true that it had nothing to do with the law to be filed between the parliamentary parties with regard to the government, and of the professional proposals put in there, unless the Dialogue submits a proposal for the Pest County Districts, it will not even be included. We don't think this is the way to do it, and you think this is the way to do it, and then the voters will decide, obviously, in the next election, which way is right. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-12-14-327	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. You have 57 seconds for Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2020-12-14-328	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Lőrinc Nacsa. My fellow Member asked me why regional parties want to make a national list. They want to make a national list because you have terminated the institution of county lists with great traditions in Hungary, and county lists no longer exist, and you have abolished them, only a national list remains. That is why there is no other option but a national list for regional enforcement, and you are now taking that away from people. So this is because of you too. Then I would like to reject the words of Lőrinc Nacsa to say that Jobbik is getting involved in Hungarians across the border. Jobbik has never joined the Hungarians across the border, and I strongly reject that. Then, with regard to the voting of letters, the citizen may decide that he wants to vote in a letter and that he will only vote in a list, or that he wants to exercise his right to vote in person, so that would be the option. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-329	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I would like to ask you that in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and I will give the floor to the State Secretary, Pál Völner, who is about to close.
u2020-12-14-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, covered quite a lot of the issues raised by you, but none of the parties said anything about the opposition side that they would not be able to appoint a single candidate in 71 constituencies. Even though they did not claim to be able to do so, this may indeed be a big task in their present state, but I do not think that is the biggest problem with this proposal. And at a time when the need for continued action against fake parties has been emphasised over the past period, it is an interesting turn of events that when there is a concrete possibility, none of them, if I understand correctly, expressed a positive opinion on the eligibility of the proposal. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, pointed out very well that there are two types of foreign Hungarian votes, in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court. They form a homogeneous group, depending on whether they have a home or not. Any Hungarian citizen who resides in Hungary has the right to establish a residence abroad and to vote by letter. So it's a slip that they're not entitled to this right, they can live with it, and in this case, they can live with it. If you want to keep your double vote, you really have to make the sacrifice either to come home or to exercise that right at one of your foreign representations. As far as the issue of funding is concerned, virtually those who have already rode into Parliament and have permanent funding, it is clear that it is a painful point for them that those who start out in the spirit of democracy as an independent starting force to enter this House will receive funding from the Hungarian budget. Not everyone is in a position, like Klara Dobrev, to, say, finance her campaign from abroad. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] So there are those who need it, that it's basically the budget that needs it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] provide a level playing field with the other parties. László Varga said that the deadline for submission could not be improved, and Lőrinc Nacsa said that this was a coincidence that the emergency announcement [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the deadline for submission coincided. That is indeed true to the facts. The other part of the matter is that we also understand the aversions related to the vote of Hungarians across the border in relation to letter voting, because the party's attitude to Hungarians across the border orientates their vote to Hungarians across the border, no doubt, but I think it is not the party of government that can do this, but the past that the opposition is carrying with it, and which peaked in 2004 on 5 December. [[21.40]] Indeed, politics also has consequences for what has been done. There are also consequences to who makes friends with whom, of course. In that case, if the Jobbik have such a suggestion, we can also raise this. I do not think that there have been any regional parties in Hungary, so the regional lists were not about regional parties. That was another election system, another election system. Mr Arató mentioned that there is a Pest County constituency where 50 minutes from one end to the other is reached by the constituency. I mean, I have them in the country, I have them in the country, and I have them in my former smaller constituency, which I had before 2014, where I only had thirteen settlements against thirty. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] , there were also 60 kilometers of distance between virtually the two endpoints. So, in itself, such disproportions do not arise. As far as the disproportionateness of Pest County and the conciliations are concerned, this is a very good point, but we should say that if we are talking about conciliation, then we should also note that there are constituencies in Pest County with more than 90,000 voters and there are some in Budapest that are barely over 60,000 or less. So perhaps it would have been better to settle this in a conciliation or complex framework. I don't know why you didn't raise these questions if you were at the meeting that Ilona Pálffy called, which you refer to. Although if there were all seven parties that this was not an interparty meeting, it would be difficult to understand according to the rules of the Hungarian language, and probably with the same intention the head of the National Election Office called this meeting. Thank you for the resolution of the Committee on Nationalities, who, thank God, are able to stay out of this debate between the parties again and can negotiate these matters correctly and objectively. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I think I may have been able to touch on all the issues that were raised. I ask you to reconsider your support for the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-12-14-331	Thank you very much, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the ninth amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Government referral T/13647. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Mónika Dunai.
u2020-12-14-332	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 10 December 2020 the T/13647 submitted an amendment to the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 21 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI The changes in the values of the modern world of the century and the challenges arising from various global trends led the Hungarian constitutional power to respond. This is why the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law is on the table of the House. The starting point of the proposal before us is as follows: the Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal order, an alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of Hungary is a living framework that expresses the will of the nation, that is, the form in which we Hungarians want to live. The constitutional will expressed in the National Creed provides a common set of values for the basic law standards, in which spirit it can be understood and interpreted, in addition to the legislation on children who have already been born, in addition to the rule of law that protects the interests of future generations. The new (1) paragraph of Article L of the Fundamental Law will be as follows, if the Parliament accepts the amendment:. Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, as well as the family as the basis for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. The mother is a woman, the father is a man. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the Fundamental Law, we have paid particular attention to the proper physical and mental education and development of children. The Family Protection Amendment to the Fundamental Law is intended to guarantee the child's undisturbed development in accordance with the child's sex of birth and to guarantee the appropriate development of the child's sex of birth. I would like to emphasise that this is all for the protection of children and for the benefit of children. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be pointed out that this amendment of our Fundamental Law does not undermine the personal freedom of adults, does not undermine the identity of adults, does not undermine restrictions on the same sex. It approaches the issue only from the point of view of child rights. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal sets out the values of the legal system, which ensure respect for the growing and future generations the opportunity to live in the greatest possible dignity, and to do so, it sets out the concept based on the non-natural, unchangeable nature of birth that the mother is a woman and the father is a man in the context of family life and the upbringing of children. Dear Parliament, The amendment before us provides children with an education based on the constitutional identity and Christian culture of Hungary, creating clear foundations for all the members of the growing generation to learn about Hungary's Hungarian identity, sovereignty, and the role of Christianity as a national preserver. It should be stressed that the latter elements are not new in the Fundamental Law, they have been highlighted in Article R. The values based on the Christian culture of Hungary are not a commitment to a religion, but a historical cultural tradition that has evolved in Hungary for over a thousand years. Dear House, The amendment of the basic law before us contains a number of novums, in addition to the subject that has been mentioned. The legislator would recognise the outstanding role of public-interest trust foundations and their independence from the current government with fundamental protection by requiring them to be provided for in future by a fundamental law on their establishment, operation, termination and the performance of their public-service tasks. The aim of this regulation is to ensure the value-creating activities of these foundations in the field of higher education and talent care, i.e. to ensure a very high degree of protection for the functioning of these universities and other institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law, as opposed to the old constitution, also has a separate part of public money. I stress that this has not been mentioned in the Socialist Constitution before. In the practice of bodies carrying out constitutional and other enforcement tasks, there have so far been different interpretations of what we need to understand under the heading of public money. For this reason, Article 39's new paragraph 3 clearly defines the concept of public money in a clear, clear and comprehensive manner when it provides for public funds to be taken, issued and claimed by the State. [[21.50]] Since public money data is public interest data, it will be possible to conclude public debate on public funds and fully guarantee the rules of the Fundamental Law that ensure transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, The scope of special legislation is also amended in the Fundamental Law. The amendments to these will only enter into force on 1 July 2023 and therefore, due to the principle of legal certainty as a criterion for the rule of law, the requirement of sufficient preparation time is ensured. Instead of 6 so far, the system of special legal order cases would be reduced to 3 cases: state of war, state of emergency and emergency. In all three aspects, it should be pointed out that the government would have a central role. This is because, following the publication of the special legal order, quick, operational and politically and legally responsible decisions are needed, which in the Hungarian constitutional system the executive power, i.e. the government, is the most suitable. The introduction of the right of regulation into the government also places the responsibility of delegation on the government, as well as the exercise of the mandate in the government's system of responsibilities to Parliament. Parliament will continue to be entitled to declare the state of war and the state of emergency by voting two thirds of all Members of Parliament. This is also a strong mandate and guarantee. It should be noted that, to the extent necessary to deal immediately with the circumstances giving rise to the announcement, the Government will be entitled to establish a special regulation, which will continue until the decision to declare a special legal order, but not later than 60 days after the Government's initiative to publish it. According to this amendment, it is also a new regulation that in the future Parliament will be able to authorise an extension of the emergency that can be announced for 30 days. In this way, the legislative authority will be entitled primarily to rule on the maintenance of the special legal order, which will require two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, On the basis of the reasons given, we propose to the Legislative Committee the adoption of the law and its support in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-333	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says it's gonna end up in the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. I now give the floor to the Ukrainian ethnic advocate Szuperák Brigitta, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2020-12-14-334	Thank you for the floor. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly is the 10/2014. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. On 24 November 2020, it held a detailed debate on the draft law on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make any further amendments, and therefore the Committee did not submit a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. As I have already informed honourable Members in the general debate, the committee initiated the discussion of the bill as a minority item because the National Creed and Article 29 of the Act covered in detail the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. The draft submitted as a separate motion summarises the texts to be amended in 12 paragraphs. Our committee has reviewed and discussed the provisions to be amended at two meetings. They do not directly affect the nationalities living in Hungary, and I therefore do not wish to make a substantive statement about the draft before us in the detailed debate. However, what I would like to reiterate, on behalf of nationalities, was stressed by the members of the committee: it is important for the nation and nationalities to pay attention to our Christian values and Christian roots. They determine our daily lives, in the spirit of which we strive to raise our children in the family circle as well as in the ethnic public education institutions. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee shall be the T/13647. The Commission proposes to adopt a legislative proposal for the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-335	Thank you very much for the voice of Superak Brigitta. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First of all, I give the floor to the pre-notified speaker: Member János Bencsik, independent.
u2020-12-14-336	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, What's more important? Protecting our children's identity or stealing? I'm asking because they'd put both of them in the Fundamental Law, and we'll be voting on both in a few hours. It would be written that each child has the right to an identity appropriate to his or her birth sex and to be protected from interference against his or her physical and mental integrity. That's very good. It is also stated in the explanatory statement that every child has the right to an education based on Christian culture. We agree on that, too. What we don't understand is what the concept of public money and trust funds are doing in the same text. In addition, in such a way that he yells at the whole proposal that it has no other purpose but to facilitate the circumvention and diversion of state property. Do Christian values and the protection of their children really matter that much to you? Are they able to drag these holiest values into the mud just so that they won't even give us the slightest chance to have, let alone a national unity, but at least some sort of majority support behind these proposals? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Majority!]] Because I know and accept that the DK or dialogue fellow Members, the Genderideology fighters, would probably say no to this, too, but I would like to vote for it as a representative of the civil response, and I would like to vote in favour of this Fundamental Law Amendment proposal if they did not make it completely insufferable and unvoteable because they combine proposals that facilitate both the creative interpretation of theft and public money. I'm asking you not to do this. I ask you to accept the amendments that I tabled, which would take out the details on public funds and trust foundations. If they do not, it will be clear that the national-colored ribbon in which the amendment to the basic law has been wrapped is in fact nothing else to do but to conceal the real goal, which is that fewer people in Hungary are becoming more and more rapidly and more shamefully rich. This will determine how many Christian, conservative Members remain in your ranks. It's not the Szájer case, because the Szájer case is a weakness of one man, which cannot be cast out on the whole community, but it's not just going to be a disgrace for one person. If you vote for this, it will not only be the shame of one man, but the shame of all one hundred thirty-three, so think carefully about what button you are pressing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[22.00]]
u2020-12-14-337	Thank you very much, Congressman Benchik. The next speaker is Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-12-14-338	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I must mention once again what I said at the previous item on the agenda, the lack of social debate. I think it would be very important for a fundamental law amendment to really prevent a social debate on these issues. I'm guessing that you, for example, didn't dare stand up to society with public money. Obviously, you have the courage to stand up on issues where you clearly know the answers of society. Do you want a migrant? They don't want a migrant. Do you want Covid to continue to destroy Hungary? They obviously don't want to. They ask the opinion of society on such simple issues, when it comes to public money, they no longer dare, because they know that the attitude of society is different. Indeed, as my fellow Member Benchik has said here, you are playing a completely double game. I've told you in two previous bills that there are good things in it, there are bad things in it. You deliberately pack the good together with the bad, and you are determined to be able to say that a bill was supported only by you, so that you can then stress that for ten years, for 20 years, you can say that the Jobbik did not vote for it. In addition, they put in two things about the sale of national assets, about theft of national property and so on. You're obviously very quiet about this, and your communication system will only talk about one thing, that you haven't even voted that the father is a man, because he is. Public money. Speaking of public money, we are constantly seeing the desire that you cannot bear the fact that the public money is not yours and that the opposition can see into what you are spending it on. It hurts you to an incredible extent. You gotta see this. They don't want anyone else to see into this. You think that, since you are two thirds of the government, you obviously have the right to spend public money on what you want and to try to prevent the opposition from seeing what you are spending these money on at all levels in society. Unfortunately, you have to see that you see it as your own money, and someone else has no right to do so. They are not aware that public money belongs to all of us, and that when they have undertaken their job, have undertaken to run a country, they must also assume the obligation that the financial system must be transparent and that public funds must be monitored. My first thought was also this in the basic debate, when I saw this legislation, when this amendment was tabled, that Fidesz-KDNP was preparing for a change of government in 2022, and they were already saving the money, they wanted to create a shadow state where public money would be put out, and if they were to be forced into opposition politics, hundreds of millions, hundreds of billions would still be available in public foundations, which could only be changed by two thirds. They put these extra rules in order to get backup for you again, to have the financial background to create a shadow state. Obviously, the election of officials for 9-12 years, who are placed in national positions, is also designed to make your most trusted people unmotivated even in the event of a possible change of government. Where does this road lead? Where does this road lead, which was already taken in 2010? It's obvious where it leads. To strengthen corruption in Hungary. Obviously, what hurts you so much when we talk about this is that Hungary has been placed in a very prestigious place on the world ranking of corruption in the last ten years. Bulgaria is now the only one in the European Union that is considered a more corrupt country than Hungary, and Romania and Hungary are in the last place, or if we turn it around, we are in the second place at the level of corruption. Unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP introduced systemic corruption in Hungary. Unfortunately, this amendment of the basic law is also one of the steps towards building this as much as possible in Hungary, and they can continue to build this kind of system even better, so that public money can continue to be passed through different channels so that the opposition, society, cannot see into it. Unfortunately, when it is indeed the protection of families and the protection of children, you are also linking this with corruption and this desire, and it is very important what my previous fellow Member has said that you are raising public money to the same level as the protection of families. It is, indeed, very sad that a government that proclaims itself as a family government to you, I think and see that it is more important to keep public money secret, to quietly shovel it through public foundations and other civil society organisations than to protect families. That is why we cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[János Bencsik applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-339	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP.
u2020-12-14-340	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are here to discuss the amendment of the most important law. I think that much has been said in the general debate and also now by my fellow Members, but if we look at why such an important amendment is needed in the Fundamental Law or why the past period, the fundamental amendments to the last nine years have been important, then we see that fate issues are being decided on the European and world stage. What we see is that there are huge attacks on traditional values, we see that they want to replace normality with abnormality, we see that, yes, it is quite obvious, the grass is green, the sky is blue, the father is male, the mother is female, but these are the times we live to put such obvious things into the Fundamental Law. [[Gergely Harvestó: We are not uncertain about this!]] I regret that this is the time we are living in, but the fact is that your European policy friends regularly question these values. When your MEPs had to vote in a gender theme, they always voted in favour of the European Parliament's decisions supporting gender, and they always voted in favour of it. [[Gergely Arató: What kind of gender-supporting European Parliament resolutions?]] decisions of the European Parliament on different family models. But for example, there is the issue of migration, which is the issue of fate for the next period. [[Gergely Harvester: It's not in there!]] It is in the Fundamental Law, honourable Member, but you have not supported the fact that it is not possible to install it in Hungary, just as the better man did not support it, only when his votes were no longer needed. If we look at it, today the Commissioner for Home Affairs of the European Commission said that they would like to vote on the European Agenda on Migration at the beginning of next year, which includes 34 million immigrants' housing, voting rights and social services. [[Gergely Harvesto: You have to read it!]] You will talk about, Mr Arato, how your MEPs will vote on this package. After all, the Home Affairs Commissioner said at the press conference that there are a lot of migrants here, and we're gonna need more, and they're gonna want to keep bringing them in. Then talk about this, so that Klára Dobrev will vote in favour of the action plan after receiving tens of millions of dollars in support of your YouTube advertisements from the European Parliament and the Socialist Group, when using foreign money to insult Hungarian Internet users in Hungary. Talk about voting for the migration action plan. Or why we need a solid Fundamental Law? Because Ferenc Gyurcsány, whom you are now trying to help power, would also terminate the Vatican contract. He'd give up the Vatican contract. There was a committee hearing today, and the DK representative wanted to take funding away from church schools again. These are the people you want to bring to power. Because they are attracted to the Constitution of 1949 and to that world, I understand that they are attracted to it as spiritual heirs, I understand, but we still think that this Fundamental Law was necessary, that there is also a need for a worldview passage, that there is also a need for the preamble, and that there is also a need for this amendment. You know, Congressman Gyüre, last week your party TV, N1 TV, came to me in front of the House of Representatives and wanted to ask me about the amendment of the Fundamental Law. He didn't ask me about the transparency clause, not about the measures taken to protect higher education, not about the emergency or about the different special legal orders, but about your party press that I think you should force me to say that the father is a man and the mother is a woman. And then you get up and say that there are parts that can be supported. Your party press is making material that should not be supported, should not be forced to use that word, where you have to say normality, you have to say common sense things. Yeah, we live in a world that needs to be said. I'm sorry you can't support this either. Your TV didn't ask about that, not about the transparency clause, not about other subjects, but about why we want to push it. That's because you now have to answer to get your seats on the list. [[22.10]] When you talk about the sale of national assets, you now want to help Ference Gyurcsány back into power with every speech in Parliament, every campaign event, every Facebook post, under whom Hungarian assets worth HUF 10 000 billion have been lost, become private property during the robbery privatisation, who privatized 192, most of them profitable public companies, he also acquired property from the robbery privatisation, and he is now doing business with Csabas Czeglédy criminal, and they are given various orders by the DK municipalities. You want to help them back into power with every speech you make, while, by the way, you're talking about selling out national assets. There will be a sale of national assets here because the national-citizen government has increased national wealth by one and a half times since 2010, but it will also be lost if you help Ference Gyurcsány to power. I think it is quite clear that the Fundamental Law reflects important world-view foundations, and I think that is the right thing to do. There was a time when you would have happily supported such a fundamental law amendment. Unfortunately, now you have to answer to others, I understand this compulsion, I understand this weight on your shoulders or the weight on your fellow parties, that they cannot now support such an amendment, that the father is a man, and the mother is a woman, and a child has the right to father and mother, and that he will receive appropriate education, because the child's interest is the most important. It is always in the best interests of the child, and we think it is very important for him to get the education he needs, the loving environment, otherwise the values that will become a definite vision and the future of the Hungarian nation. Not in the European United States where everything dissolves, everything relative, the border between good and evil disappears, abnormality becomes normal, and at some point everyone will find themselves in such a sink, such a melting pot; you will help them to power. And by the way, yes, I hope that in 2022 there will be a change of government, the current Orbán government will be replaced by the next Orbán government. That is why I will work, because such measures and the measures that we are taking on a world view basis, while everyone has the rights to do so today, as the Prime Minister said, everyone has the right to... I think that we need to take measures and decisions for the future, which will ensure that the Hungarian nation will continue to live here in 10-20-50-100 and 500 years from now, and not in some melting pot in European United States, in a feverish dream, the Hungarian national sovereignty and the total loss of values that DKs represent. I'm asking you, there's still time. Now, listen to your common sense, don't vote on Gergely Arató's orders tomorrow. [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] Don't try to meet DK in the hope of the right listing place. I know Ferenc Gyurcsány shares the cards with you, but it is easier and clearer to listen to your conscience and your common sense than to Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-12-14-341	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Congressman Gergely Arató, who is handling the machine, is not a repeated speaker, so he's always retiring. I'm sorry. You have the floor, Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2020-12-14-342	It would have been a great loss if I had not heard the words of Congressman Nacsa, who is always incredibly envious of not coming on a list with us, but you have already missed it. I think you can live with it, you can live with it, we can live with it. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It's a shame to be jealous of the good guys. Dear House, However, I would like to talk a little bit about the amendment of the basic law, and if, as rapporteur for the committee, you have made a comment in the genre of the general debate, I would not insist strictly on the points of the Commission's report, if you will allow me. I was excited to hear what a really touching and important list and presentation of what you think the ideal family should be like, what it looks like, when 25-person parties only visited by men, drugs in backpacks and gutters come into the picture. Shouldn't we stop this, Congresswoman and Congressmen? Shouldn't we stop preaching high morals to a whole country? And then it turns out that, yes, there are weak people among you, just as they are everywhere. I suggest you stop this, leave this country alone. We have a series of problems to solve, but that doesn't include you trying to tell people how to live, trying to protect them from the dangers that don't exist. No one forbids, no one attacks the traditional family, everyone can live happily, I remember getting married in Hungary, no one tells me not to be able to have children. Those of you who say that this is not a matter for the state, including me, I say that all we ask is that you do not decide who loves whom, who can have children, who can adopt you. You do not decide what is normal and not normal, because on the one hand you do not have a moral basis for this, and on the other, no government would have a moral basis for it, because these are things that are not within the scope of Parliament and not within the scope of the government. You can have an opinion on this, that's what your upbringing, your faith can dictate, you can think that this is the ideal, good solution, I'm sure many of you will agree with that, but you just don't want anyone else to tell you how to live. All we're asking is that you don't want to put it in the Fundamental Law. And you can guess, I'm sorry, it's father-man, mother-woman, bike, and sky-blue constitutional amendments, but we know it doesn't have any legal meaning. This is all about trying to make Hungarian society believe that if you do not defend it, then men can not be fathers or fathers men and women mothers; because the genders will come, as we have heard from Congressman Nacsa, and they will eat everyone. I must say, fellow Members, that this is not even worthy of you. So this is the type... I get it, you see, you've looked at what happened in Poland, you've seen this, this, this liberalism coming and eating us, and it's falling apart the world-type thing and the dying Western type propaganda that we've heard in Soviet times in such a fascinating way, it might bring votes. I don't think it's gonna bring anything, but it's gonna bring one thing: tension, hatred, unnecessary arguments. Your outstretched arm, Mrs Dóra Dúró, has already submitted your ninth amendment to the Constitution, and then look at it, you do it, you generate it. Now they're still at the grinding of fairytale books and local government resolutions, but it's very clear what it's all about: they're choosing a current minority when who, whom you can hate, because if it's not enough for Soros and Gyurcsány, they're looking for another target. I must tell you that this is not only unworthy but also disgusting and dangerous. And, uh, the rest of the amendment to the basic law is almost easy, isn't it, lex kosa, which says that what you say is not public money is not public money? It says that what was once stolen into a private foundation stays there. It's got that, and it's a more dangerous story that they're doing about the emergency legal order, because there was a balanced order there, which they took over from the amendment of the Constitution of 89, by the way. I say this to Congressman Nacsa only to make it clear that there was still a constitutional amendment after 49, so it was not in force as it was adopted in 49. This was taken over earlier when the Fundamental Law was born, essentially from the old constitution, otherwise it was right, because it was a well-balanced system. Now, Congresswoman Dunai has said that the government knows everything, the government knows everything better, we don't need any kind of control. Well, they proved during the crisis how well you handle a critical situation, by the way. Congratulations. That's what they're trying to get almost unlimited authorization for. I am very pleased to hear that there is a longer period of preparation for this in the interests of legal certainty. So they're not planning a war for the next two years, until 2023, and they're only planning to declare a state of war. That's certainly comforting. In summary, I can say that this amendment of the Constitution is a political product, and it is an expired political product, because after the Szájer case and the Borkai case and all the other cases, this kind of hypocrite Christianity, it is no longer credible from you, it does nothing. You can't protect theft in the Fundamental Law, we'll take back what was stolen, and by the way, thank God, these state of war laws are never likely to actually come into force. [[22.20]] Take this back, I say absolutely hopelessly, and you will vote tomorrow, but this kind of constitutional amendment will fail with you. And dear Congressman Nacsa, do you still have the nerve to talk about the stability of the Fundamental Law when we're at it? I'd say it's funny if you weren't sad. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-343	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Migration... Gergely Harvester intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The next speaker is Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2020-12-14-344	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Lőrinc Nacsa asked how and migration. Well, he raised it, and I wanted to answer that, although I didn't have much time left. He says that Jobbik did not support the government measure to prevent migrants from coming to Hungary. Well, my fellow Member Nacsa wasn't here in the 2014-18 cycle, but regardless of the fact that he read the newspaper, he knows very well that Jobbik was the one who stood most consistently against the arrival of migrants, we were the only party that rejected migration at all levels, and we were the only party who was in favour of the zero solution. You were the ones who rejected Jobbik's amendment to the basic law seven times, in which we wanted to say that tolerance against migration in Hungary is zero and you have never supported it. It was you who planted 20,000 migrants in Hungary for money, because you were able to do this, no matter where you came from, it didn't matter that you were a national security risk. You took him in, you let him in, the point was to pay. You are willing to do anything for money, you have proved that, and in the area of migration, you will stand up until you receive money for the opposite, and you will give up your principles immediately. So much for migration. I would also like to reject Lőrinc Nacsa's statement that opposition parties have been in a rush to support the strengthening of all gender theory in the European Union. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has never supported such a bill; it has never supported any amendment in this regard. And don't do it here... once again, Lőrinc Nacsa did what I said in my previous speech: there are positives in a bill, and there are negatives, and because we can't vote for a bill for stealing public money, you immediately accuse us that the values of families, family values, Jobbik doesn't support. How can we not support you, Congressman? ! Well, I refuse your method of washing family protection against theft of public money! What you're doing is outrageous. Thank you very much.
u2020-12-14-345	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. The next speaker is Mr János Bencsik, independent.
u2020-12-14-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to get an answer to that very simple question from someone, and I have already asked it in the Judicial Committee, but I still have no answer, but here is Secretary of State Völner, who may be able to answer how it is that they criticise Brussels' collapsing ideological and budgetary issues, while here in Hungary, doing the same thing with this Fundamental Law. You say that it is absolutely untenable that the European Union wants to combine ideological debates with the regulations affecting the budget of the European Union, these two must be separated, discussed separately, here, and without any problems or remorse between the walls of this House, to be voted down within one legislative amendment on matters of a meat-cutting ideological nature and issues of a basically budgetary nature. If I do not have an answer today, I can only assume that you are hypocrites, Mr Secretary of State and my honourable pro-government colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-347	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2020-12-14-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When we continued the regular review of their granite-solid Fundamental Law here for the ninth time in the context of the general debate, it was clear to me that this does not have much moral ground for you. The difference here, perhaps at second reading, is that today a significant part of the country, much more, has a clear view of this than it has been for a few weeks. I also agree with my fellow Member Bencsik saying this quite rightly, by the way, that these are very different amendments, which are typically ideological in nature, but, by the way, you have also built an ideology to redefine the concept of public money. The fact is that the public money put into these foundations is clear from the famous words of Lajos Kósa that you intend to lose its public money character, and this very narrow interpretation is quite amazing. So you are making a joke about this whole issue, and there has been no social consultation before this amendment of the basic law, nor has it been revealed to any faction, nor is this legislative intention for any of the opposition groups here before 10 November, that you want to re-examine the granite-solid Fundamental Law. The fact is, therefore, that this situation cannot be corrected by any changer, and even the moral situation that has developed in recent weeks assumes one correct decision by the government: they are withdrawing this amendment. This would be the only right and correct decision, but I can see from the rhetorical turns and the communication elements of today because I am really here since before the Prime Minister's agenda, and it is now almost ten hours since this meeting that they have not come to this conclusion, they are not moving towards greater social consensus, they are not moving towards common moral, national minimums, but they are giving more gas in all areas of life, they are afraid of a change of government, and they want to sweep opposition arguments under the carpet with a pretty hypocritical rhetoric. We're not gonna be partners in this. As I said in the general debate, this amendment to the basic law cannot be supported by us either. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-12-14-349	Thank you, Congressman Varga, notary. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pál Völner, to give his closing speech.
u2020-12-14-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, who tried to sum up what was said on the subject; the committee of nationalities also expressed an opinion on the amendment of the basic law itself. My fellow Member, Mr János Bencsik, asked a question. I am very pleased that you support the findings on the identity of children, the protection of children. It seems that the definition of "public money" is a problem. This kind of concise wording of public money is therefore not included in the Hungarian legal system. What's it about? It's about public money being the income, expenditure, demand of the state. Technically, if we think about what money we have as a private person, if we approach it this way, so that money is ours, which is our income, which is our expense, and what is our demand, which may exist, then I think we will cover the entire circle, and the state as well: where the state comes in contact with finance, that is public money. Thus, when the State has an issue, for example, in tenders and benefits, it appears in a form of contract, and until it is properly used, the State lives as a claim, so it can be reclaimed from those who do not use it under the laws, regulations and contracts in question. So, in our view, this is a full coverage of public finances, where the money can move in these three forms. This may not convince you, but it is, in effect, the state's ability to see as public money the money that is in the system and sub-schemes of public finances is entirely an opportunity. [[22.30]] It may not apply to money that does not become the revenue of the state, to tax incentives, to funds granted to foundations. But for example, when it comes to family taxation, no one ever said that those tax incentives would be state revenue, they would be public money. So this definition contains virtually coherent thinking. We don't have to agree, I'm just saying that there is a legal basis for this which has been formulated in the Fundamental Law. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, spoke about the sale of national assets. I think there's some of the left-wing parties next door... I heard there was this little list dispute. I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Gergely Arató, that no one in our group wants to take the train where Ferenc Gyurcsány is the massist, so we do not need to provide us with seats on that list. I would rather finish my political career than ever identify with the kind of attitude they represent, and I apologize. The Spirit of the Better One on it, so do it, take it. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not anymore, sold.]] So if it's good for you, then do it. These are the general wordings about the public money you're putting here: look around the neighborhood. My fellow Member Nacsa described what was being squandered, here from the airport, through MOL shares, the energy sector, the shipments of waste. So all the areas of which we have managed to make a good part of again Community property in the last ten years. Take a look at a balance sheet, by the way, when we talk about public money, public wealth, how much the public wealth has increased in the last ten years, and what has been squandered in those eight years or even in the Horn's period, how families' benefits have been cut. I think you know the facts, you just close your eyes and start a blind flight. I'm not saying good luck with that, because I wish you and your allies didn't succeed, and I hope that at least police officers will not be remembered in the background and in the future. If you like it, if that's what you choose... This shows that we are practically living in a free country, so one has a free will either for sin or for evil or for good. Do it! And then we're talking about morals and stuff. How people live? Today, Prime Minister said on the basis of the Fundamental Law that everyone in Hungary lives as they please. Obviously, laws and laws must be observed, freedom of others should not be violated, their interests should not be violated, but in addition, the way in which people behave in their private lives is their business. Another question is what kind of moral judgment this may have is how you relate to it, but it is not a good way to say that there is no sin and there are no sinful people, but to say that there is a failure. And you always have to judge sin, not man. It's the other way around, you'd free sin and condemn man. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] As these cases prove. It was a reference to Poland, to incite hatred. I beg you, if there's ever been hatred, an attempt, for example, against Hungarians across the border, or at what time was the guard marching here when Gypsy murders took place, under which government? Who let him get away? Who let the ghost out of the bottle? Who was the one who could stop this? It's all a mirror to look into and then talk about these issues. Csaba Gyüre raised the issue of migration. Basically, migration and asylum are consistently mixed by you. They know very well that Hungary has international obligations in the case of refugees, which we have already met and will continue to fulfil in the future. The Prime Minister also made it clear in his speech today that those who once again lend public money to the State and receive a residence permit will not be granted a residence permit, but will benefit from this discount for the period during which the Hungarian budget is financed. It's not the same, you can't put that under the same roof. And we can say that you have not supported migration, but have prevented the government from taking action against migration. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: With what? Have we ordered the military here?]] the legal cementation of this basic form of law. And that's when they stood by us and voted in the form we originally put forward when your votes were no longer needed, because there were two thirds of the governing parties. But when we were in trouble, we were in a critical situation, and you let us down. It's a fact, and it's indisputable. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You have failed the Hungarian citizens!]] László Varga had it in relation to the Basic Law, as to how many amendments we are making. Take a look at the fact that at the beginning, when we had to amend the Fundamental Law, what kind of mine work you had in Brussels, the Court of Luxembourg, the Commission, for which there were several amendments where, in practice, we could not bring forward the wording that was in conformity with the original intention, and it had to be revised to ensure that the kind of rule of law mechanism, the procedure under Article 7, could not be called, could not be initiated against us. Although, let's say the attempt is happening right now. The only thing about granite strength is that if there's a granite block and the letters are carved in it, it's still granite. Another question is what life's challenges dictate, and how many lines and words it needs to be extended, so that it is clear to everyone that there is a solid state, a nation of solid values. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-12-14-351	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. There is only one Member left after the agenda. I give the floor to the Fidesz MEP Attila Gelencsér: he would like to give his speech on the title of the renovation of the bathroom hospital.
u2020-12-14-352	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The renovation of the bathroom hospital is essential. After a fine period of 100 years, a few decades of agony followed the life of the bathroom hospital located 17 km from the Kaposi Mór County Training Hospital. We have arrived today to join forces, to seek government help, and it is imperative that the hospital be restored. Allow me to give a historical overview of the hospital, built in 1892 by Count Ede Pallavicini, very briefly and at the same time as a justification for my suggestion; it was originally intended to be a hunting castle, and he noticed that it had a very good effect on his asthma disease. [[22.40]] He left until he finally moved here, lived in the bathroom for the rest of his life, until his death in 1932. In 1938, it was already a tebecésanatorium in the bathroom. In 1949, a baby's pet with a hundred beds; and in 1959, Dr. Andrásofszky Barna, director, who made the bathroom hospital great with his humble and sacrifice for decades. In 1963, four years after Mr. Director's activity, he became an independent hospital and a thriving period began. When, in 1977, it already has 283 beds in children and adults, it operates with its main professional activity. Perhaps the peak of this period is 1992, when it was 440 beds in a lung and heart hospital, and perhaps one of the few hospitals in the country where schools were operated. Yet, an agony begins in the 1990s in the life of the hospital, going all the way to the need to be rescued by the Reformed Church in 2002. Then, in 2006, I was elected president of the county assembly, and from then on I became better acquainted with the history of the hospital, and we went through an integration process that was made earlier, but I supported it myself. Thus, one of the establishments of the Kaposi Mór teaching hospital, which is operated by the Somogy County Municipality, became one of the sites. About this time, cardiology, pulmonary and rehabilitation are taking place here, but we have arrived at the development period of the pole hospital, where we are developing the hospital in Kaposvár from more than HUF 20 billion. Obviously, the small hospital 17 kilometers away will no longer have a source. To sum up what has been said so far: a nursing home became a chronic care hospital unit with a bathroom with chronic care, care department and hospice service. This area is particularly suitable for cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases or elderly patients. It became necessary, it became essential to renovate the castle building in the same way as the renovation of the later built pavilion buildings, the complete reconstruction of the service buildings and the utility network. A complex infrastructure development must be carried out and the service itself. Our goal must not be to create a modern, integrated, professionally unified centre for healing rehabilitation and social care, which guarantees patient safety, patient comfort and equal access. Target group: minimum 300,000 Somogy residents, 129 thousand over 49 years of age, 42 thousand over 70 years of age. A short-term, missing professional profile could be implemented with an upgrade. In conclusion, it's about timeliness. The civilian government, unlike the left, is not losing, but giving in times of crisis. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] After all this history, I think that the crisis may be a good opportunity for all of us to invest in the bathroom hospital. [[The president's ringing several times.]] We're going to do an innovation and we're going to develop this hospital. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-12-14-353	Thank you very much for the speech by Fidesz MEP Attila Gelencsér to renovate the bathroom hospital. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful, good night. Meeting day's closed.
