u2020-05-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are monitoring our work today. I would like to inform you that Congressmen Attila Móring József and György Lukács will be here to assist me. We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Tamás Mellar has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, With regard to crisis management, it has often been mentioned in recent weeks on the pro-government side that it is false to call on the government to take account of social measures, since the opposition, the Gyurcsány government, has recently taken away a month's pension from pensioners. However, it is certainly true, but the Bajnai government took this, i.e. suspended the payment of the 13th month pensions, and that is indeed one-twelfth less pension, i.e. 8.3 percent less pension for pensioners. That's a fact, you have to admit. But let's stick to the facts. Compared to 2010, pensions overall increased nominally by 33 per cent compared to 19 per cent. This is a very nice number, but if we report inflation, which was 22 percent during the same period, we get that they have increased by 11 percent in real terms. It's still an amount to be paid anyway. However, if we also look at the fact that the Fidesz government has given up the Swiss indexation method, according to which the expected index of consumer prices and the growth index of net earnings in the previous year should have been taken into account at a weight ratio of 50-50 per cent and thus should have increased pensions, but this was repealed, pensions should have increased by 42 per cent between 2010-19. Compared to that, the Fidesz people paid nine percent less. Therefore, this 9 percent corresponds to more than a month's pension, so we can say that the Orbán government has also taken a month's pension from pensioners, and it has done so during a period of peace and not in a time of crisis. After all this, the socially sensitive government, at least trying to prove its social sensitivity, is going to give a week's extra pension from next January, which will mean a total of 2 percent increase in pensions for pensioners. Well, honourable government, you would only have a moral basis to talk about this matter if, above all, you gave back this one month's pension that you did not pay, and a month's pension that the Bajnai also took away. Overall, this would be a two-month pension, which would mean a 17-18 percent pension increase right now. If you are unable or unwilling to do so, please do not mention the taking of the 13th month's pension, because it is completely uncredited. Moreover, this would also be good for crisis management because if you were to generate a surplus demand with this increase in pension, you would increase a demand that would otherwise remain within the country, because most pensioners would buy consumer goods, buy medicines, spend money, and all this would remain in the internal circle, would not generate imports. But in addition to that, I forgot to mention that the Fidesz government should account for the $3,000 billion pension assets, the assets of private pension funds, because it has not done so far. An explanation should also be given as to why the nominal individual account system has not yet been implemented compared to 2011, because the promise was that private pension fund savings will be transferred to that account and credited. None of this has happened to this day. Since these did not happen, I think that the government does not regard pensioners as partners, but as manipulatable masses, and I think that this is a very, very bad message for pensioners and a very, very bad message for active workers who cannot see what kind of pension they can actually receive in their retirement years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-05-19-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In 2010, the civil government concluded an agreement with pensioners, which says that as long as there is a national government in Hungary, the value of their pension remains a buyer. All these years have proved that we've kept our word. On that side of the left-wing governments and the parliamentary horseshoe, you also took away the 13th month pension from 2.4 million pensioners and, between 2006 and 2010, the real value of pensions fell by 4 percent. We took over the Pension Insurance Fund with a deficit of HUF 357 billion in 2010. Compared to this, pensions increased by 38 per cent, their real value increased by 10 per cent, in 2019 by 2.7 per cent and in January 2020 by 2.8 per cent. In the form of a pension premium, pensioners also benefit from economic success. For the first time, they received such an allowance of HUF 23 billion or HUF 40 billion in November 17 and 18 respectively. In November 2019 they received an average of HUF 20,000 pension premium of HUF 52 billion. In addition, pensioners received a voucher for Elisabeth on Christmas 2016 and 17 Easter, and in September 2019 all pensioners received a refund of HUF 9000. Within the framework of the Women's 40, more than 270 thousand women could retire after 40 years of employment, and we believe that multiple reductions have also helped the pension age group. If I understand correctly, in addition to the fact that I think the measures listed here speak for themselves, Mr President, you have pointed out why the 13th month's pension is not being returned at the same time and at the same time, so why not, I am sorry, why we are not returning the 13th month's pension at the same time. I see that either by listening to your speech, it turns out that you'd be even more supportive of pensioners, and you're even more on the side of the 13th month's pension. The problem, Mr President, is that in October 2017, you said the following on the same subject:. I am not on the right because I overlook everything for Fidesz, but because I have a conservative set of values. That's why I get a rash when I hear that the MSZP wants to apply for the 13th month's pension. This is what the Member said in October 2017. Even in October 2017, you spoke against the 13th month pension. [[9.10]] He is on the excellent side of the parliamentary horseshoe, on the side where the balliberal politicians who took away the 13th month pension from Hungarian pensioners, and clearly, if it were up to you and depend on the left, the 13th month pension would never be returned to Hungarian pensioners. The thing is, you took it, you don't support it, and the civilian government leads it back. So what I can say is that you should be ashamed and ashamed of this speech. Thank you very much. [[Defiance. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-19-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, A health system health check was launched before the outbreak, and if there had not been an outbreak, it would probably have been followed by the health reform that many would expect. It is now possible to restart, but on what basis? A lot of questions arise when you think about the health care system and the operation during the epidemic, as well as about the supposed reboot. We have a lot of questions to answer. It is important that we know that during the epidemic, the instructions and regulations were indeed clear and clear to the hospital leaders. It is important and very, very important that it was understandable to them and had enough information about who they could send home, which beds could be removed or, I'm sorry, cannot be eliminated, but can be handed over to the protection against the epidemic; who are the patients who can be sent home, that was really understandable to everyone, I mean the hospital managers. The important question is that there has been a survey of the consequences of these returnees. So I'm thinking about patients in more serious situations: have the relatives been able to resolve the care of these patients in any case, or have they managed to move to other institutions or to a social care facility? It is important to know that if there are consequences, then how this will be corrected in the future. At the moment, many people work at home offices, teach their children at home, teach distance, and maybe take care of the elderly at home. Will the elderly who had left the institution go back? It is very important that hospitals get their active beds back and those that they need to get back, because we have heard comments from State Secretarys before, that there were beds that weren't charged anyway, and that could easily be removed in the future. Ready for the next wave? The world doesn't know much about this epidemic, so the question is, what are we gonna do about another outbreak, another wave of it? So what does the government do, what happens to health, if we start again now, and when will it be? We see that there are several milestones in this reboot and that we are gradually returning to what? So, specifically, there are plans that have assessed whether the delayed surgery, i.e. delayed surgery, will take place; how swollen the waiting list is and how it will be managed; is there sufficient capacity in the healthcare system to manage them? What are the consequences of the fact that if the epidemic has subsided now, but it is restarted, then there will be re-implantation, or are they seeking a long - term solution? It would be very important to know that the government is thinking about closer links between health and social care systems; whether home care, as such, is appreciated by the government. If the elderly remain at home, did they wonder whether they would increase not only their children but also their elderly parents, or those who care for their brothers at home, perhaps the prize they might receive? So there are a number of questions that I have now asked, and I have not made any statements, because my goal is to give people answers on how to proceed with health care. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much, too, for the calm, objective speech of the Congresswoman; probably if there were more like it here in Parliament, people's confidence in Parliament would also be higher. On the one hand, I think it is worth calling for an apology to those fellow Members who have been pitiful for years about Hungarian health care, the Hungarian health care that has been under a tremendous test and is now under the coronal virus epidemic. We could compare it to other countries' health systems, compare it to other European countries, Sweden, Italy, Spain, compare it to US care, and we have to say that we can only acknowledge the people who work as nurses and doctors in hospitals, who manage hospitals either as hospital managers or as hospital commanders, and who have tried to deal with it in this epidemic. We have heard from you here many times from opposition benches that the Swedish model should also be introduced in Hungarian health care, and how good it would be to have health in Hungary according to the Swedish model. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and honourable members of the opposition. Hungary and Sweden are at about the same stage as the coronal virus epidemic; in Hungary, the number of people dying from a coronal virus disease per million inhabitants is 46, in Sweden, 359. The kind of attitude, the kind of humane, well-being Northern attitude that you have demanded, has resulted in nearly ten times as much death during the coronal virus epidemic as in Hungary, so fortunately here in Hungary, we have managed to save the lives of more, primarily elderly people, so thank you all. What we cannot thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, is that when it should have been authorised to react quickly, it was not given in Parliament, nor the possibility of a quick decision, nor the possibility of decisions on the coronal virus afterwards. Other countries, which are affected by much larger domestic nationalities or other conflicts, were able to establish a national consensus on the issue of rapid protection against the Crown Virus, which was not successful in Hungary. The Congresswoman has asked a number of important questions, one of which is the publicity of orders during the epidemic. One of the most important issues was the responsibility of the 62 professional colleges for how patients should be treated in specific disciplines during a coronal virus epidemic, all of which were documents published on the website of the ÁEEC. The doctor's various instructions were also available to everyone on the Internet, and we have always tried to update them, as the WHO has constantly updated its own recommendations. It is important to tell about beds assigned to patients with coronary viruses, because they often try to tell false news about this, that no patient should have left the hospital following any instructions that would have led to a risk of health loss from the hospital. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] They all had to stay at the hospital. Those who could be cared for at home could go home because they no longer required hospital care. We've often said that if there's been a mistake in this, that's why there's a patient's legal representative, so you need to find the hospital director general, or you need to go to the chief of staff to make sure that none of these mistakes happen. Different instructions for home care are provided in the final report on how to treat patients. The important thing in this is, and patients' rights representatives have also made sure that this is also formulated in an understandable way for home laymen, who are not doctors. The framework for home care, honourable Member, has increased from 15 billion to 55 billion forints in Hungary over ten years, precisely because we know that for a patient who does not require hospitalisation, the best condition for healing is possible among the family or in his own home, and therefore we have raised the budget for home care from 15 to 55 billion forints, more than three times, nearly four times. [[9.20]] I'm sure you're aware of the fact that this week, the second stage of the second phase of protection against the coronal virus began in health care. One third of the beds separated for patients with coronal viruses can now be re-emerged, so healthcare is gradually restarted. That there will be a second wave, honourable Member: we expect that there will be a high probability, since there has been a case of all other epidemics. Therefore, on the one hand, self-sufficiency must be much better prepared for this production capacity in Hungary in the production of respirators and other devices, and on the other hand, it is likely that an epidemiological preparedness will be required for a long period of time, and this will obviously have a major impact on the functioning of healthcare in the coming years, so that such an epidemiological preparedness can persist in Hungarian health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Gergely Arató has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-9	Dear House, I'd like to talk today about what the government spends and what they don't spend. Let's start with what you don't spend on, especially because there were two topics here this morning. The government doesn't spend money on health care. The Secretary of State of Rétvár often boasts that, of course, only all cases in Hungary are a lot, I say, in very strong quotes 46 people lost their lives out of 1 million inhabitants because of the coronal virus epidemic and give some distant exotic or Western European example and compare it with it. Dear Secretary of State, Why don't you consider the surrounding countries? In Hungary, there are 46 victims for 1 million citizens, 28 victims in the Czech Republic, 24 victims in Poland and 5 victims in Slovakia, i.e. one tenth for 1 million inhabitants. And then we are not talking about one of the largest deaths of people who have fallen ill in Hungary. And it's not the health workers' fault, they're doing superhuman work right now. This is the fault of those who have let health care rot in the last ten years, the fault of those who have started testing late, and the fault of those who have brought late and inadequate protective equipment to hospitals. What about pensions? If it hurts so much for Mr. Secretary of State to abolish the 13th month pension that the Bajna government has forced on him, then why hasn't the 13th month pension been introduced in the last ten years, and why are they just promising now? Then why are you bragging about the pension premium that was introduced by the Bajna government? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He has never paid a HUF pension premium!]] Then why did they eliminate the indexation of the pension, the mixed indexation, which has taken a month and a half pension out of the pocket of pensioners in the last ten years? Surely my fellow Members have received a letter recently sent by desperate State Secretarys... State Secretarys? The State Secretarys aren't desperate, their financial situation is fine, they just got a raise, so, desperate citizens are writing. A couple wrote to me, let's call them Alexander and Mary, of whom Alexander lost his job, and Mary's business was impossible, and they did not receive any support from the government. They do not receive job search support, because Alexander could not register himself in the labour system in a month and a half, nor do small businesses receive any support. Minister Szijjártó yesterday boasted that 500 companies had already received investment aid. On the one hand, small businesses are not a problem of investment, they are a problem of survival, and on the other hand there are 1 million 600 thousand businesses, and you have helped 500 of them. Congratulations. Hungarian small businesses are supported. They ask that with the money you spend on the billboard now, to brag again, and to conduct a political campaign, you should not be able to support the difficult Hungarian families, so that they can at least afford food and pay their rent and stay out of the street. And they're not alone! The Hungarian government does not provide any substantial support to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed. You talk about numbers, manipulate statistics, but it doesn't change reality. And we would think that this situation would encourage the government to save money so that more money can be made for the most important things, for helping families in difficulty, for health care. But that's not true. What's important to you, there's plenty of money. For example, there are HUF 38 million in the Political Network to support the International Organization for Values. This is the organization led by Secretary of State Katalin Novák. There's 200 million forints of extra money for the Gunnery Academy with an amendment to the law. There's 2 billion forints on the National Athletics Center, which is now almost 8 billion. The Hungarian Handball Association led by Máté Kocsis is worth 1.38 billion. There is another 15 billion for the propaganda of Antal Rogán's Ministry over 24 billion so far. But the coalition partner will not be left out, the International Eucharistic Congress will receive HUF 1 billion, HUF 957 million, another HUF 1 billion for the protection of church heritage, and 100 million for community support. But there is no other important Christian Democrat case left out of support, and more than 1.5 billion forints will be allocated to the next element of the World Hunting Exhibition. And, of course, business partners, relatives, and friends won't stay on the side of the road. Mr. Mészáros and Mr. Tiborcz received 2 billion for port development, 80 billion for the Chinese alone and the railroad companies, probably Mészáros companies. Let me be clear: this is what you needed support for, for the distribution of money, not for the control of the epidemic. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As for the death of the plague, let's continue with the surrounding countries. So 46 out of 1 million people died in Hungary, unfortunately, but 49 in Slovenia, in Romania, while the neighbouring countries were 56 and 71 in Austria. So much for your statistics and deception. By the way, the title of your speech before the agenda is also trying to suggest what you did during your administration. You were also a State Secretary between 2004 and 2010, you know what the money-taking is, you know what the crisis was like in 2008 and you know how you handled the crisis. You have dealt with the crisis with austerity. They took me away from people first, from families to make it worse for them to live worse. What hurts you is that this government is not treating the crisis the way you want it to be. He doesn't treat it that way, and he doesn't treat it that way because at your time, the entire country, the economy, the people, the families and the budget itself, the state went bankrupt. The difference is that in this crisis the state, the state budget, is not bankrupt, but precisely that it is in balance. What hurts you is that the country has not stopped, the investments have not stopped, and the state-led bodies in the country have not become inoperable. I'll give you an example. In the same crisis, you took a month's wages from civil servants. [[Gergely Harvesto: Why didn't you give it back?]] . And what did the current government do? Teachers got their wages the same way, the kindergarten teachers got their wages. But in your day, I was married. But he also mentioned the pensioners. The situation was exactly reversed, because you thought in times of crisis that it should be taken away; it must also be taken away from pensioners who are no longer working at home. They took a month's pension. What does the current government say? He says that the purchasing value of pensions must also be preserved in this difficult situation, but not only must it be preserved, but it must be returned to the 13th month pension that you have taken, and it will start at the beginning of next year by giving back a week's pension. I think that the current government has created the sources of defence, with a government decision in one day, because the budget has established this and has created an answer to the economic difficulties arising from the epidemic, the Economic Protection Fund, contrary to your logic, your thinking. What hurts you is that the country will not be indebted in this situation either, that it does not have to take credit, as in your crisis management, that it does not need to stop investments, that EU funds do not need to be stopped and transferred, but that it will be used in accordance with the original objective. What hurts you is that we don't spend aid with both hands to make the government popular, but we say that we give wage subsidies to companies that keep their employees, but they can do this only in reduced working hours. 90,000 people have already received this kind of support. And what hurts is that we don't give aid, but we provide support for job creation, which was announced yesterday by the government, about HUF 80 billion to about 70,000 people. If you are going to employ a registered unemployed person next year, you can benefit from this support. [[9.30]] And by the way, you're wrong about the extra resources you've listed: the churches are not getting any extra resources; the handball association is getting only the operating support that I believe is part of the budget, that you're hurting that a sports association is operating in this situation - and that no other organization is getting any extra funding. The most important thing is that this government is also in place in terms of the budget and the balance [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] it can ensure fiscal balance in the future, including in this difficult crisis. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond to what we've heard here. We have now heard from Mr Tállai, State Secretary, that the Hungarian state is not indebted. Mr. Secretary. We borrow from Chinese to build the Budapest-Belgrád railway line Hungary; we took loans from Russians to build Paks II; with multinational companies, which are your strategic partners, we agreed on Hungarian employees. In particular, you have indebted to the country that it is a matter of sovereignty! Well, what else does this government decide that they don't decide in Moscow, that they don't decide in Beijing, or that they don't decide by German multinational companies?I heard from the Secretary of State that we should have made quick decisions. Here, please, the economic package. How fast were the decisions made there? The Prime Minister stood here at the beginning of April and said that on 6 April he would present the largest economic rescue package in history. April 6th passed, and then he didn't introduce him. Everyone was confident that this would really be a good package that would save Hungarian workers from losing their jobs. Compared to this, we saw Viktor Orbán moving away from this program, pushing it away, and then his ministers. After all, despite waiting for Minister Palkovic to come to the meeting of the Economic Committee, we were only able to listen to his State Secretarys. Since then, I say that it is very good that we were only able to listen to that lecture in a narrow circle, because if the Hungarian voter had listened to it, he would have learned that the current government knew exactly what would happen in three and five years' time, but he does not know what will happen in three and five weeks' time, what will happen to those who have lost their jobs, nor do they know how many there are, then I think that these voters would have looked very bitterly at you. They say we want to give you aid. Please, let's get this straight. No one wants to give me aid! We want to give people jobs, too. However, people who have lost their jobs now because of emergency protection, not because they are not needed in the labour market, not because the company where they work is not needed, that product is not needed, but at present because of emergency protection, they cannot do their job now, they need to think about them, they need to finance their lives. It's not aid. Don't look down on those people. They're no less valuable than I was before the outbreak! Now you want to restart the economy. What's the starting point? I asked Minister Varga here a week ago how much unemployment needs to be taken care of, because the Prime Minister is confident that as many jobs as the virus has lost are created. You have said three numbers so far: Secretary of State Schanda said 163 thousand, the National Employment Service said 281 thousand, and in internal discussions the ITM is talking about 330 thousand unemployed. They don't even know what it is! What will be the performance of the Hungarian economy this year? Minister for Finance Varga says there will be a 3 percent recession; Mr President of the Central Bank Matolcsy, let us not forget, we are talking about the two very important players in economic policy, saying that there will be a 3 percent increase. There are 6 percent of the two, 2700 billion forints. Minister Varga told me there might be differences of opinion. They could be. But how big are they? ! 2,700 billion forints? I think that it would be better to see clearly in this respect and to know how you imagine how much jobs need to be created, where these jobs will be created. We hope that not only in public work, which you have already acknowledged was inadequate, it has not been possible to lead people back to the primary labour market, it has not been possible to bring people back to the primary labour market. And one more thing: Hungarian workers should be worth more than the Budapest-Belgrád railway line! 82 billion will be spent on the Mátra Power Plant [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They spend 140 billion, which is exactly the same as they spend on Hungarian workers. Let Hungarian workers be worth as much as mates! Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-05-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-19-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! This speech also coincides with the previous DK speech. But it can't be anything else, because you're all thinking together, you've been a party, you've been ruling the country together. Obviously, they were thinking together when they were ruling, about the crisis, we know how, and it is natural for them to think together, when they have been in opposition for ten years, and there is another difficulty in the country, in front of the country, and we need to reconvene. It can't be anything other than what you said more than ten years ago. Yeah, they say today that people need help, people feel good when they don't have to think about how they're gonna be able to get a job, because they get the benefits, so they can make a living. The current government does not think so, honourable Member. He doesn't think that way, he doesn't think about how to make people feel more comfortable, better, but how to make a living at work. I think that this kind of thinking has been fully accepted by the workers, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families, and they have lived and live according to it to this day. The crisis, the economic crisis caused by the epidemic, is a great difficulty for the country, a great difficulty for families. Currently we know 163 thousand unemployed people, and we know that they already exist in the country, and unfortunately this pandemic has caused a significant part of it. However, the government has made the right decisions. Among the first decisions is the publication of a credit moratorium that is unique throughout the world to this day. I think this was immediately a message to Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses, that they could count on the government to help the government. This was the case, the measures were notified weekly and step by step. I'd like to say one more package, the tax reduction package. It is unbelievable that, in the current situation, the government thinks that taxes should not be raised, but tax reduced. Among these, a 2 percent reduction in the social contribution tax, which will be reduced to 15.5 percent from 1 July onwards, is the reduction of contributions in sectors in crisis situations, the reduction of contributions in self-employed persons and the remission of taxes for three months in case of disasters. As a quick step, the government created the Economic Protection Fund, in which 1345 billion forints of funds were transferred. [[9.40]] I also note here, as in my previous reply, that it was not out of credit, nor to international banks, nor to the IMF, nor to the European Union, as you do, but that the resources of the budget provide adequate resources, adequate backgrounds, guarantees and security, so that the significant HUF 1345 billion in the Economic Protection Fund will be transferred to where the problem and difficulty are greatest. And where's the biggest one? Where jobs need to be preserved, it must be preserved, and here the government can provide 70 percent support to businesses; despite all kinds of communication, opposition communication and messages, businesses want to keep their employees; it is true that they cannot produce because their order has dropped significantly. I visited 10-15 companies in my constituency, and I know what's going on, but in every company, they said they wanted to keep their employees, and therefore they will take advantage of the reduced-time state aid option; they will wait for these few months, wait for the month of June, July, where their ordering stock will tilt, and then they will make economic decisions. By the way, everywhere in every company, they accepted and welcomed the government's decision, and in one place they did not demand what you said in your speech, that we give people support, that we give aid. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To keep people at home, and the mailman will carry the money. They didn't ask for this, and the government doesn't think that way about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Róbert Dudás spoke before the agenda in the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, What has been happening over the last decade, in many decades, on the part of the government in relation to the local government, can be said, to say the least, that in many cases it is disrespectful to the municipalities, which, in turn, refers to a lack of knowledge and experience from the government part that has taken place in recent months, a great lack of respect, in many cases, I think. I'd like to ask you a number of questions. I don't know which representative of the government will answer me. When questions concerning local governments are drawn up and presented in the form of a bill, is there anyone between the authors and the prepers who has already been a municipal official, rather, I say that he is a local government leader? This would be a very important thing, because then they would know what the role of the municipalities is and what it really is to be a local government. You know, I am also sure that the local government is aware of this report, but at the same time only and only from a political and otherwise economic perspective, I would say that it is from a purely political side, which, by the way, ensures that decisions are made as close as possible to the people; this is nursed, guarded and defended throughout Europe and in many, even all democratic, countries of the world. This is called the subsidiarity principle, and this is what has, by the way, been badly damaged in recent years and in recent months. Let me have a little look back at the local government. In 2006, you acquired almost all the municipalities, and I could close the parentheses here on 13 October 2019, when many municipalities were lost, but during this time the local government has undergone a very serious transformation. In 2010 and in the subsequent period, county municipalities were transformed. Yesterday Minister Gulyás had several problems with the fact that he was a county or city government. Let's get these things straight. By 2011-12 the county authorities had an institution-supporting role and maintained the health, social, disability and many other child-protection institutions of the county, and otherwise have been properly and properly provided for for decades. This was converted, taken away from them, and from 14 onwards they were entrusted with the distribution of the operational programmes for territorial development, which by the way, if not 106 but very many small kings were created, for example, it can be mentioned that Happy Istváns were placed in a position which resulted in no longer having the operational programme for territorial development at their disposal since 2019. The aim now is, by the way, on the bill to be submitted tomorrow, including on the economic zone, to disposal county assemblies over certain sources, which have two reasons; the first is that they have nothing to do at present, which is very sad, by the way. I was a county councilman for nine years, I would consider it a very important body, and I would consider it a task, but not at the expense of the settlements, this is one. The other is that all county governments are pro-government, which is why they are now trying to group additional resources there. However, to mention a positive point, and I am already doing this in relation to small municipalities, despite the fact that many tasks have been taken away from small municipalities and handed over to district offices, which in many cases have made local administration impossible, while at the same time carrying out debt consolidation in the area of 2011. It should also be noted here quickly that, in parallel with debt consolidation, at that moment, 60% of the vehicle tax was taken from the municipalities; regardless of whether they were responsible or not, they received debt consolidation or not, they took 60 percent and in the last month they took 40 percent. We are talking about the municipalities that were in danger, organised the defence on the ground, and did everything they could to ensure the lives, quality of life and situation of the population. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you that, in the context of tomorrow's bill on economic zones, this issue concerns the business tax on cities with county rights, because in many cases it is not clear in the description, please respond to this and affect the business tax on small settlements, because if so, it is the end of small settlements. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] it can mean the end of mandatory tasks, the end of local government and subsidiarity. I demand more respect for the municipalities, more respect for the people. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, the Member's speech before the agenda is answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have compared the situation of municipalities, say, from 2006 to today, and I think that this is a very exciting comparison period. If you had stayed on the ground of reality at the very least, you should have seen the gradual and continuous looting of municipalities after 2002, since the state shared all the consequences of its failed economic policy with society and allocated a good part of it to society through the municipalities. If you were to look at the reports of the State Audit Office between 2004 and 2009, you could clearly see that the State Audit Office has found that during this period the budget has drawn some HUF 2300 billion from the Hungarian municipal system, with partly abstract subsidies and partly continuous tasks for the municipalities. The division of tasks and the distribution of tasks are also an exciting issue, and you have bitten into the European municipal comparison for a moment. It is worth considering the types of municipalities in Europe, which would lead to a rather long debate. I believe that, through the Hungarian authorities and the Hungarian municipal system, Hungarian citizens are able to intervene and enforce their interests to a great extent in their own lives, in the areas of urban development and urban management which determine them; otherwise, this can be clearly demonstrated in the comparison of European municipalities. But back to the division of tasks and the withdrawal of tasks that you have proposed: if you really know the tasks of the municipalities and have known them before 2010, then it is very clear that a significant part of the tasks of the local government was not a municipal task, which was transferred to the district offices, but a notary competence, a notary task, especially in small settlements. [[9.50]] Education is a different subject. Obviously, with regard to the maintenance of education, the operation of education, the organisation of education, an ideological, governmental question about where the government sees direct management of education as appropriate. We believe that an education organised from above, organised in a uniform way, is much more conducive to territorial equalization, rather than helping all students to receive the same service, but obviously this is also very far away. In essence, in the small settlements, the district offices have, in fact, taken over or taken over practically a few notary powers, and, moreover, district offices have taken over the tasks of district-centre notaries in connection with document publishing and other central government management, but which have previously been notary powers. So I think there's no need to confuse the two things here. I would like to return once again to the State Audit Office's report on the operation. In 2009, the State Audit Office clearly stated that the municipalities had achieved the impossibility of operating, and immense indebtedness had begun. The municipalities were able to maintain services that were otherwise used by the citizens, partly through the sale of assets and partly through the taking up of loans, and which the State left to the municipalities without funding. Following the consolidation of debt and after rethinking the division of tasks, the possibility for local authorities to manage has been created, the possibility for local authorities to make independent decisions on tenders and their development goals, as they have a source, have the opportunity to do all the urban management tasks, all the development tasks that citizens expect of them. The fact is that today, in Hungary, there are, in part or in large part, and primarily due to historical, economic development traditions and the situation that has arisen, significant territorial imbalances, and there are areas where municipalities operate with very little revenue, while other municipalities operate with very high revenue. It is necessary to provide for the possibility of real balancing, and indeed in settlements where there is no possibility of collecting large amounts of business tax or other types of tax, they should have access to the resources from the balancing mechanisms that can help to develop small settlements. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-21	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic is slowing down and we need to ask what its lessons are and how to proceed. A crisis is about solving it, and if we do it right, it's gonna be better than before. We have to say that the treatment was fine. In the time of the government, he acted effectively, the population was disciplined. The opposition also brought its form in the fight, although it did not participate, but at least yelled at the edge of the course, loudly. What were the effects of the plague? Maybe I should mention three of the negative effects first. He endangered our lives and our health, restricted our movement, and put the economy back on track. But it also has a lot of positive effects if we process this well. First of all, he corrected our image of ourselves. We had to admit that our freedom is limited, our confidence is sometimes excessive, and there are a lot of unnecessary things in our consumption. But not only for ourselves, but also for communities, there is an impact and lesson to be learned from the epidemic: it has shown the power of communities, especially their family, the importance of turning to each other, and the effectiveness of teleworking in our work; and I must now highlight the responsibility of schools, the standing of teachers, parents and children. It should be noted that if we move forward in areas where teleworking can be used, then, obviously, mixed occupation is the best solution when the worker is able to do his job effectively both at work and at home. But one of the most important issues is the impact on the economy. I mentioned in the negative effect that he had rejected the economy, but thought began in the direction that drew the lessons from it. In part, it raised issues of the global economy and, in part, of the local economy. If we are thinking of the global economy, it should be noted that the policy of Eastern opening has been effective, but it will certainly not be me, but the Minister. In some areas, the local economy has raised a question of self-sufficiency. Here, let me refer to the vaccine factory, which aims to ensure that not only the vaccine related to the coronal virus, but all other vaccines are self-sufficiency in Hungary. Many wonder what changes still need to be made in the re-launched economy. Obviously, correction of the global economy is also mentioned. Here, let me refer to the intentions of the European Union, which mentions some resettlement. But there is also a stronger focus on environmental aspects. If I have already said this, let me refer to the importance of creation protection as well as to the fundamental encyclical that bears the name of the,,, Laudato si ', which was born five years ago, and has again escaped this week: it draws attention to the application of the law of the created world in contrast to the culture of disposableness. Our relationship with nature and our relationship with another man feed on common root, says this document. So when we apply our image of ourselves and the other person, we do something similar to nature. So the common root is in human behavior. His predecessor, Pope Francis' predecessor, put it this way: the desertification of the Earth and the desertification of the human soul feed on a common root. Let me draw our attention to one more point here. 75 percent of new diseases spread from animals, and many explain this by narrowing the habitat. I think that, as a lesson to the epidemic, there are three lessons to be learned: the right picture of ourselves, our relationship with the other person and the protection of the created world. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, international political discourse is now determined by the subject of the measures that some countries are coming back from, so to speak, the situation that has been created by austerity or restrictive measures that were necessary to reduce the rate of spread of the world pandemic caused by the coronal virus. In Hungary, these decisions were made in good time, so we managed to flatten the epidemic curve so to speak, to prepare our health system in Hungarian, and to control the speed and pace of the spread of the infection. We thank healthcare workers, we thank everyone who has taken their part in the defence so far, and we thank all Hungarian people, because they took note of the restrictive measures with exemplary discipline, and they kept to it. I think it is very important, too, Mr Group Leader, that we draw the right conclusions. [[10.00]] Obviously, this will be a longer process, and perhaps even worth waiting for a little while, early breathing and early frivolity can easily lead to another problem. It is clear, however, that if a complete continent delivers itself to an external player in the strategic sectors, it could easily get into trouble. We can see that Europe, including the whole world, is lined up in China in order to acquire the tools necessary for the success of health protection. It is important that we have already started building capacities in Hungary, which will give us the ability to produce certain critical defence tools in the near future. This is the case in addition to the production of masks for the production of breathing machines that require much more complex knowledge. It has also become clear that countries with some sort of air cargo capacity can respond to such a situation much more easily, much more flexibly, where the means of defence need to be obtained from a distance of land, and therefore the building of air cargo capacity will also be an important issue. I would like to say that in dealing with the epidemic situation, it must always be borne in mind that we cannot leave any Hungarian, no Hungarian can be alone. Accordingly, we have brought home more than ten thousand Hungarians from abroad, who are trapped outside our country because of travel and transport restrictions, and we have constantly provided assistance and assistance to Hungarian national communities across the border in order to have sufficient resources to protect them in the areas they live in. Dear Chief of Staff, You referred to the success of the Eastern opening policy. This was confirmed not only in terms of health protection in terms of procurement of assets, but also by looking at where most of the investments have been made in Hungary in recent months, even in the face of difficult economic conditions, it is clear that from the Far East, East Asian areas, since Korea, Japan and China have come to Hungary over the past few years with large investments, modern investments that create jobs, and also investments that enable environmental protection and competitiveness to go hand in hand, because when we are talking about the modern technology industry, we need to talk about the automotive industry in the first place. The automotive industry is one of the most important factors in greening industry and the economy. In Hungary, the world's largest electric battery factories will be built, which will allow the automotive industry and car transport to be much more environmentally friendly in the coming years. We have mobilised a great deal of resources to transform the automotive industry, which is the backbone of the Hungarian economy, into this new era. We have succeeded, so Hungary will be at the forefront of a balanced approach between environmental protection and competitiveness in the coming period. Thank you very much for raising these issues in your speech before the agenda. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-24	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda from the Fidesz Group, Ms Csöbör, Member of the Council, has applied. I'll wait for Congresswoman to put the microphone on. He doesn't have a hanger, I see, so he's forced to control it. Would you like a portable microphone? [[For signal:]] No. [[Katalin Cöbör's mic doesn't work.]] I'd like to have a portable microphone delivered to the congresswoman. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman, please.
u2020-05-19-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, ten years ago, in the days following the formation of the second Orbán government, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, narrower in my Patria, in my constituency, the largest flood of the last hundred years has been devastating. By the whim of fate, the disaster coincided with the Trianon anniversary. Ten years ago, in the days immediately following the change of government, we experienced what it was like to have a government work successfully and effectively. Members are shoveling sandbags on the ground, and the members of the government are overseeing the defense, and the Prime Minister, as today, is personally visiting the critical points of defence. By the way, in 2010 the flood hit almost all the settlements of my constituency: Arnóton, Alsózsolcán, Szirmabesenyőn, Miskolc was still part of my constituency, including Gesztelyen, Hernádnémetin, Hernádkakon, but the biggest damage was caused by the flood in Felsőzsolca. Of the 2,200 houses, 1,800 were damaged and 201 collapsed. 201 families lost their homes. However, it was good to see that the help came from anywhere in the country, and even the Hungarians across the border helped to defend themselves. The government has successfully done its job, defended the people, rebuilt the city, the houses, restored public safety, built the dam, and completed the Miskolc bypass to help transport around the area. Dear House, In 2010, ten years ago, Parliament gave a new meaning to the Trianon anniversary. On 31 May, he adopted the Act on Witnessing for National Inclusion, and the Fundamental Law declared that he was also responsible for all Hungarians beyond the borders. On the day of national integration, we commemorate Hungarian teachers, mayors, pastors, priests and all Hungarians from the twenties of the last century who nursed Hungarian culture, cultivate it today, and cultivate the Hungarian language. Since then, all Hungarians can know that they are nowhere and never alone. Responsible Hungarian government must give every Hungarian people, live anywhere in the world, be exposed to any dangers, floods, epidemics or oppression, all their help; just as the current government is doing, ignoring otherwise shocking protests from the opposition side. This was the case in 2010 at the time of the flood in Felsőzsolca, and now during the epidemic, everywhere where Hungarian communities need support, so in Cluj County, Maros County, Beregszász, Csíkszereda, Kovasna County, Zilah, Croatia and anywhere in the world. Dear House, During the nearly 100 years since Trianon, the memory of the most tragic event in Hungarian history has not faded. At the time of the change of regime, and ever since, several leading political forces have suggested and are suggesting today that we give up our national self-awareness, our sovereignty, so that the united European states can be part of Europe. Allow me to quote Count Albert Apponyi's famous warning after the signing of the peace treaty: you have now dug the grave of Hungary, but Hungary will be at the funeral of all the countries that have now dug the grave of Hungary. This sentence has never been as topical as it is today, when the countries of Europe are moving towards self-destruction, and we Hungarians, in the most difficult hours, draw strength from solidarity and teach lessons from cooperation. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó will respond to the statement made before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to briefly refer back to what you started your speech before the agenda, the 2010 flood in Borsod County, North Hungary, at the beginning of my reply. Allow us, therefore, to continue to ensure our appreciation after ten years for all those who took part in the flood defense, who participated in the restoration and helped to return to normal life in flood-stricken areas. [[10.10]] Since 2010, we have faced similar situations, Hungary is the country of rivers with all its beauty, its attractiveness and sometimes, indeed, its challenges. Of course, investments in flood protection and water management continue to be among the priorities each year when preparing the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a country and the Hungarian nation is a nation where the borders of the country and the nation do not coincide for historical reasons, and this basically also determines Central European history. We are a country with a foreign policy that is interested in good neighbourly relations. We strive to have good relations with all neighbouring countries. This is good for us, good for the neighbouring country, but above all good for the Hungarian national community living in the neighbouring country. We always try to avoid tensions, always stay away from domestic policy issues in other countries, including neighbouring countries, of course, as long as they do not have an impact or, where appropriate, have a negative impact on the Hungarian national community living in the territory of that country. At the same time, good neighbourly relations should be part of mutual respect. We need mutual respect for each other's feelings, and we expect neighbouring countries to respect the fact that what, in their case, is a national tragedy for us as a historic event for them. We are therefore striving to build this relationship with each neighbouring country on the basis of mutual respect. One more thing we must respectfully draw the attention of neighbouring countries: that respect for historical facts does not mean revisionism. We demand respect for this from all neighbouring countries. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that we are in constant contact with the Hungarian communities across the border, and we are not taking the right as governments to tell us what is good for Hungarian national communities across the border, but we are asking them what is good for them, and when they tell us, we will do it. In 2016, our national communities across borders and their representatives asked us to help them strengthen the economy. Because if they can grow economically, their living conditions improve, they can serve as a link between the motherland and the country where they live, and it will be good for everyone. Therefore, in 2016 we launched our large-scale economic development programme, with which we started to support the businesses of Hungarian national communities across the border, the economic activity that took place there. So far, we have given support to 54 984 cross-border businesses, which have created HUF 230 billion in development in areas beyond the border where Hungarians live. We did this at the request of Hungarian national communities living across the border. We are ready to continue with this programme, so at the last meeting of the government, it decided to provide another HUF 18.5 billion to enable us to continue these economic development programmes, our activities in support of agricultural and industrial enterprises. We are a nation, every member of the Hungarian nation can count on the national government, live in the mother country or beyond our borders. Thank you very much for raising this issue in your speech.
u2020-05-19-28	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the safety requirements of the emergency. The Commission's reports on the transformation of the status of civil servants in cultural institutions and the amendment of certain cultural laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/10098. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the transformation of the civil servant status of those employed in cultural institutions and the amendment of certain cultural laws, T/10098. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, People employed as civil servants in the cultural field are currently faced with a system of promotion and salaries that is significantly behind other human sectors. As a result, the movement of human resources in the sector to a degree that is already under threat to the functioning of the whole country's cultural institutional system. The aim of the proposal before us is to make this area competitive by creating wages that can respond to rapidly changing market conditions. The above problems will therefore be addressed by transforming the civil servant status of the cultural sector into employment relations, thereby creating a uniform legal status and working conditions, as well as by establishing a wage replacement with the guarantee that, overall, those affected cannot be placed in a worse wage situation than is currently guaranteed by the current legislation. The bill only covers archives, museum institutions, public libraries, public cultural institutions, integrated cultural institutions and performing arts organisations in relation to its basic cultural function. The government decided on a 6 per cent wage increase in 2020 in parallel with the change in the relationship between civil servants. With the transformation of the public employment relationship and the associated wage increase, more flexible labour law rules will be created, able to follow dynamic changes in the labour market. The further aim of the proposal is, on the one hand, and this can also be read in the justification of the bill, so that the library provision of Hungarians across the border can be achieved within a more organised framework and, on the other hand, it aims to strengthen the quality of life in rural areas. As a means of doing so, it establishes a system of regional libraries, whose task is to support, inter alia, the library services of Hungarians beyond our borders, and to coordinate the cooperation and care of urban libraries with county scope. Dear House, The proposal before us must be supported, as it opens up a wider scope for the employers' heads of institutions, since employment which is no longer tied to the pay table can be a guarantee of quality public service. Employees can obtain a fairer wage according to their actual skills and their invested work. By transforming the relationship into the most important social value-generating factor in the knowledge-based cultural sector, knowledge, ability and will to do so will become the most important factor. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr Péter Fekete, on behalf of the rapporteur, that he wishes to speak now. [[Péter Fekete: No, thank you.]] No. Then it's only in the closet. Thank you very much. [[10.20]] I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Committee on Culture has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to Erika Kissné Köles in the new lineup, in the usual place I tried to speak to the Slovenian minority speaker, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary related to the debate. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2020-05-19-31	Gospod Predsednik, hvala za besedo! Spoštovane Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary held a detailed debate on the bill before us at its meeting on 28 April 2020. The Committee did not take a position on the amendments tabled to the bill and did not intend to make any further amendments at the meeting, and the Committee did not, therefore, submit a proposal for an amendment to the Commission closing a detailed debate. Today, the number of cultural institutions of the 13 indigenous nationalities recognised as state-making factors is an unavoidable factor in Hungary. Nationalities in the field of cultural self-management, through cultural responsibilities, do a lot for the maintenance and preservation of their cultural heritage. The cultural values they create are an integral part of Hungary's values. The presence of nationality is presented to other members of society, shaping and shaping the world of its own and its environment by presenting its culture. The language, culture, traditions of nationalities, quite simply the identity of nationality is a value that enriches Hungarian society and which must be protected, developed and passed on. In this mission, national cultural institutions, non-ethnic cultural institutions and the professional apparatus employed in it also have a key role to play. Many of the workers of cultural institutions have so far performed this task in a civil servant capacity. The scope of the bill defines employment under the employment contract under the Labour Code. The transformation and the resulting tensions are expected to resolve. In its proposal to amend the law on the rights of nationalities, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary already designates employment under the contract of employment for staff employed in cultural institutions. From this change we expect the professional advancement, development of the staff of cultural institutions, the development of their professional quality and the resulting effective and successful work. We believe that a 6-percent wage increase is only the beginning of further wage compensation, and that the quality of the job provision will provide opportunities for wage increases in different ways. From the transition of the employment method after 1 November, we continue to exist in the cultural institutions of nationalities, and we hope that our future survival and the preservation of our language and culture can be demonstrated effectively. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-32	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The time limits on the table can be continuously followed for all of them. I would also like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches during the debate. I am now speaking to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up, Congressman Tibor Bana. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we discussed during the general debate, nearly 20,000 cultural workers will cease to be civil servants as planned, according to the bill, from 1 November, and as I spoke in my immediate question yesterday, when we spoke with Minister Gergely Gulyás, we discussed various matters, and indeed the overwhelming majority of cultural workers do not look at this proposal as positively as it did on the part of the government in the field of communication over the last few weeks. Unfortunately, I have seen that the proposals for a technically sound amendment have been cancelled at Commission level, so they have not been incorporated and, in essence, this proposal will be adopted without any substantive change after today's vote. In this way, therefore, cultural workers will be able to face the elimination of the benefits, and I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that we can clearly see from the government side that they are taking steps towards bleeding out cultural life and putting workers in an uncertain position, when, in the emergency caused by the corona virus epidemic, it is necessary to say that cultural workers throughout the country have tried to do everything they could, just as in other cases; I would like to bring here the example of Szombathely, where Agora Savaria's staff have brought culture to home within the framework of the cultural carantine, thus making everyday life of the Saturday residents more beautiful. I find it shameful, Mr Secretary of State, my fellow members of the Government, that this proposal was tabled just in the event of an emergency. Let me bring you a few lines from a post on Facebook:, For me, the status of civil servant had a symbolic value, if it had no financial value, at least gave me some kind of moral compensation, that I was regarded as a civil servant in the public service, and I considered myself to be a civil servant. After that, the writer discusses uncertainty. Who are we talking about? Miklós Melega, Director of the Vas County Archives, Fidesz municipal representative in Szombathely, so even he made a true, modest criticism of the proposal before us. And while Erika Kissné Köles spoke, let me note that I also find it amazing that nationalities can face a billion HUF withdrawal in the case of national minority subsidies. This also affects Vas county, because there are a lot of Croatian or Slovenian settlements in our county, the Croatians of Gradisty or the Slovenians of Vendék are also very affected by this, but there have also been numerous German settlements in our county in the past, but because of the evacuations, the number of them has been reduced to about zero, but fortunately, the German nationality still preserves its culture in many places in Vas county. I therefore ask that, in the interests of Vas County and in the interests of the people working in the cultural sector as a whole, if possible in these few hours, they override their ideas so far, and yet press the button, my honourable fellow members of the Government, as is the case with their conscience. Don't put cultural workers in this position. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the MSZP Group, Mrs Gurmai Zita is next. Here you go, Congresswoman. I'll wait for him to put the microphone on. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-19-35	Thank you very much. Dear House, There are two problems with this law: one is not necessary, two is not prepared. As for the first: we know that Fidesz has a tendency to deprive public money of its public money character, I might say paraphrased that culture loses its common good character with this law. It's a shame what you're doing! While they insist that the protection of cultural heritage is part of our national identity, while putting statues on the line for their favourite writers, while the Prime Minister moves to the Carmelite monastery, a masterpiece of the Hungarian built heritage, so that during this time you will eliminate the status of civil servant of the workers of the institutions that live and operate culture. With this law, you basically say that the museum researcher is no different than the receptionist of a multinational corporation, the value given to the common good is the same as the latter. On the other hand, it is not understandable why it had to be pushed through Parliament all of a sudden. [[10.30]] Let me be gentle and feminine. Reality wouldn't thank you, because what you're saying about negotiation is not in the context of reality. Mr. Secretary of State Péter Fekete referred to a long one-year consultation when I asked him why this should be done now. I took the liberty of asking a few cultural professional organizations. To my letter, the leaders of the organizations replied that there were meetings, only just the Kjt. This level of change has not been mentioned. I quote from one of the letters, anonymously before the police quit because of rumors:. The material of the strategy we prepared at the beginning of April 2019 included our proposals for the sector's wage situation. There was no mention of the KT in these. Avoidance. In December 2019, under the leadership of Mr Black Secretary of State, at a meeting with professional interest representatives, it came up on our side, asking the news of the corridors in December about how Mt planned it. to introduce it in our sector. At that time, it was said that they did not plan, at the most, to think about it in the performing arts sector. After that, there was no consultation, no information was received, so at Easter we received the ominous bill. Well, so much for your credibility. You can lie as much as you want, but don't hurt, don't privatize the culture, because not only is it not for sale in the country, Petőfi, Liszt, Bartók, Ady, but even Wass Albert can't be the object of bartering. Thank you for listening. And I'd like to point out that I just received the CCP's press release. In the last word, courage and responsibility, I will take you to the Secretary of State, and if you will allow me, I will quote only the last words:. It will take courage to make this decision. In the Parliament based on the principle of the people's majesty, Members are responsible for making decisions to promote the public's benefit. The law that has just been passed does not serve the public interest. Who do the representatives who adopt the law represent and to whom do they have responsibility? I look forward to your honored answer.
u2020-05-19-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Only for the record, because we have not yet passed the law: so sentences that speak about it in the past time require an ongoing decision. Thank you very much, and I apologize for this announcement. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Vice-President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2020-05-19-37	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congresswoman and Congressman Lords! At the plenary session of Parliament, when this bill was being discussed, as at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, there was a substantive debate on the proposed bill. I speak because we wish to take every legal opportunity to express our opinion; that is why we are speaking now. I think it is worth pointing out to the honourable Secretary of State and to the honourable majority Members that there is a real conceptual difference between us, not some kind of misunderstanding or visceral opposition, which is a real conceptual difference here in plenary and in the aforementioned debates. I would like to highlight this in two respects, from two aspects: security and competitiveness. First of all, in the matter of security, because we claim that the status of civil servant and the legal relationship will result in greater security for the employee than what you propose in the amendment of the law. For the record, I would like to say here that, although this bill is, by definition, about people working in culture, in public works, it is actually your idea of abolishing the status of civil servants. We are looking at and discussing a chapter of this, which happens to be the case for the workers concerned, but I repeat once again: the bill speaks only slightly about culture, public education, in the vast majority and on the basis of political considerations, there is a specific and systematic abolition of the civil servant relationship in our country, which I consider to be detrimental to the workers and to our country as a whole. In terms of security, however, it should also be said that the choice of the date, the choice of the date for the hearing of the bill, is particularly critical and cynical, because in the legislative plan, which the government submits every year and before every parliamentary season, this bill did not include an orphan word. This does not mean, of course, that they are breaking the law when they are presented, because they are submitting whatever they want, but in terms of planning, if they knew that we would be negotiating it here in the spring period, they would have signed it. In fact, this bill is being introduced using the emergency because attention is clearly more focused on other areas, such as health. Another aspect is competitiveness. Your argument here is particularly inconclusive, honourable pro-government representatives. Please allow me to make this statement, and do not consider it a cocky statement that, in the current composition of Parliament and among Members, I think I have spent more than the average time in the archives in Budapest, Vienna, Florence or even small Czech city archives, such as Klatovy. I just don't get it, I can't understand it, and I can't believe that as a result of this law, an archivist's work will be more competitive. By the way, please tell me how an archivist will be more competitive. Tell me, that's who the XVth is. On the basis of this bill, he deals with centuries of history, how he will be able to read a handwritten text more safely, more professionally, and more competitively in international comparison! How is this linked to competitiveness? Because unfortunately, I have to say that there is no connection in the world between the competitiveness of this sphere and the termination or outsourcing of the civil servant status. There's no connection! You want to terminate the public service relationship, which is hidden behind such terms as that it is more competitive, but in this beautiful sphere, you cannot use the concept of the market to make it more competitive, because either I can read the Gothic text, or I cannot read it, and this law will not improve my ability to read it better. Therefore, this bill, with a summary of my opinion as a whole, is denied by the MSZP Group and will not vote for it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-19-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita steps into the table of Black Peter and hands him a document.]]
u2020-05-19-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Let us begin with the lie of life of this bill, which has been said here again, thanks to the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, that the relationship of civil servants is any relation to the wages of the day laborers of culture. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a life lie. The same thing happened and happens, for example, in the university world, when they tie it to the foundation form so that university teachers can be paid better. There is no connection here, ladies and gentlemen, and the area must be financed, in the opinion of the Jobbik National People's Party, in a priority way, because culture is not to be done cheaply, and it is not something, as Minister Hiller has just said, that should be covered with competitiveness, but rather if culture is to be cultivated at a high level and we want to cultivate it at a high level in terms of society as a whole. Every Hungarian citizen in the century can live a full and happy life if he has the right to public education, then it must be financed in a prominent way, and then there is a possibility to pay higher wages, and this has nothing to do with the public employment pay table, which, in turn, sets minimum wages. [[10.40]] Plus, let's see what Fidesz has to say about this bill to society as a whole. Once again, to the whole of society. That the day laborers of culture, the archivists, the artists, the librarians are worth so much to take them out. It is not enough that their salary is very low compared to the average, it is extremely low, and this also shows their social non-esteem, we even take them out of this very small, well-sustaining civil servant relationship. I ask quietly what happens to summer, for example: between June and September, artists have no income? I'll just quietly note that this happened now, during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, when it was necessary, Mr. Secretary, to assist the artists concerned. This bill takes most of the summer out of payment, will not conclude contracts for the summer when there is no performance, for example, with actors in a completely obvious way. Let's face it, this reflects our value choice about Hungarian society. And let me share with you a little story about Fidesz's anti-cultural and anti-knowledge value, which happened to a leader of the archivists a few years ago, who said that he had once been ordered into the Fidesz Ministry, and a young man in tube pants told me that, in the same half-page, he had already summarized what we needed a archives for. [[L. Simon László: No! No!]] Now, that's your cultural policy. Szilárd Meg Demeter, Director General of PIM, whose funded program continues to abuse the Germans. Now, that's your cultural policy and that's your cultural father. So I think that this is the bill and the decisions that are due to it in the next month, because if this is approved by the pro-government Fidesz majority, it seems, by assisting nationalities, as I have heard the voice here, which I find particularly shameful, this is just a side note, then the leaders of culture will make very serious and serious decisions about certain human fates. And I want you to tell me what's going to happen from November 1st, right, what's in this bill. In a morbid way, can I say that the day of the dead continues in the field of culture? The theater is obviously characterised by one person control, and now the actors are completely vulnerable, even without the little legal certainty that the civil servant employment has so far meant. And let's see what alternatives a country artist has, if we say he doesn't get a job in a city, lives there for 30 years, and is unemployed; what to do with an artist who is no longer 25 years old to go to some multinational company, which is strongly supported by fidesz neoliberal economic policy. In summary, let's face it, this bill is against culture and knowledge. The EPP Jobbik is on the side of culture and knowledge, and we cannot support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr Péter Ungár applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-41	Thank you for the floor. The fact is that, in itself, a right-wing government is deleveraging the status of civil servant is not surprising, because of political textbooks. The status of civil servant is a basically social democratic achievement, which serves to ensure that people working in the state have collective rights over the employer, which in this case is the state or other public money distribution provider, local government. The fact is that this is done by a government whose political legitimacy is based on a referendum in 2009, which rejects this kind of right-wing economic policy, shows what a two-faced law this law is, since it does not assume the ideology on which it is based, which is that public engagement must be curbed. I will not tell you in more detail what my fellow Member Hiller has said, because he is much better at it than I am, but the competitiveness that the majority author of the Legislative Committee has said is compliance with changing market conditions, these words are words that we could have heard from Minister Ágnes Horváth SZDSZ in terms of health. The fact that Fidesz was a youth class of SZDSZ is seen again in this bill. The fact is that people in vocational training have already lost their status as civil servants. Currently, cultural workers, and especially public collection workers, are particularly sensitive to them, where more than 90 percent of them have been civil servants, will also be deprived of their status as civil servants. They have not denied my repeated questions about how they are also preparing to remove certain teachers or certain social and health workers from this status. That's because it's government policy. In the first debate of the law, my fellow Member Hiller quoted the 2014 Teller study from which Viktor Orbán quoted it, where they said that the people who live on state redistribution were members of the post-socialist clientship. This is how you think of everyone who works for the state, because the state is currently one of the worst employers in Hungary, because you spend money on a lot of things, but not that our fellow countrymen working for the state, such as public collection workers, receive regular wages. I don't think you can be persuaded of this law, not even because we've come to the point of posting quotes from Margaret Thatcher by the Fidesz faction leader and several politicians, to inspire you. You can nod, my fellow Member Nacsa, but then you represent the economic policy against which you were supposed to protest in the two thousand years when I was protesting in certain spaces. The fact is that cultural workers are an area where many do not see the primary importance of health in the present situation. At the same time, if the cultural area is not adequately financed, if these people are not given sufficient certainty, then the national cultural monuments that we intend to present to the next generations will suffer. In most institutions where public collection workers work in the status of civil servants, they retain written and other memories that are the treasures of a thousand-year-old Hungary and which cannot be exposed to the logic of the market. National culture in itself is something that does not know how to quote again the majority speaker of the TAB to meet the changing conditions of the market. The advantage of being unchanged is precisely that the status of civil servants does not follow changes in the labour market and other markets, as it preserves things that are hundreds of years old, so it cannot comply with the fact that there is a process of economic activity or degeneration. The logic of this draft law, its ideological structure, in my opinion, is wrong, and I think it shows the essence of Fidesz's economic policy. And I also think, as has already been said, that this is a second step in a long journey, we will be standing in this room even in this cycle, talking about other civil servant status, because you will do everything you can to implement the warning of János Lázár in 2016 that hundreds of thousands more people work for the state than it should. The fact is that this law and it will lead to this in an important record, here cultural workers will be divorced, perhaps not next year and two years from now, but in the long term, and the number of people who are concerned with preserving our national cultural values will be reduced. Therefore, I think that this law cannot be supported, and in my opinion, ten to twenty years from now, it will prove that this was a wrong and wrong thing. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Csaba Nagy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I wasn't planning on commenting, but it was an argument from Jobbik that I must respond to, and I would like to share a few thoughts with you, because I think the debate is going a little bit sideways. Obviously, every proposal can be viewed from the top to the top, but there was a part in my life where civil servant status in the art world was one after the other and gradually abolished in relation to culture. [[10.50]] This was in Pécs even after the,, the 10s, where we started the nonprofit KFTs one after the other in relation to the different artistic branches, otherwise in consultation with the institution managers and the public staff working in the institution, and the feedback came to me, without exception in each case, that although there was a lot of doubt, there was a lot of fear, but it was worth taking this step. We turned Pécs Puppet Theatre into a nonprofit kft, in the meantime from the Pécs Ballet, the Pécs National Theatre, the Pannon Philharmonic, and at that time I sat down with all the directors, union leaders, and discussed the process that went through the transformation. There's obviously a lot of doubt and questions in everyone's mind. We haven't been able to answer all the questions, but if you ask these theatre directors, now you ask the leaders of companies or professional leaders, they all say it was worth it. They were able to function more freely, to carry out the artistic ideas they had come up with. As a result of this decision, they began to move around the country, not only being able to carry out their activities at the county seat, wage increases, and at all, companies began to work by looking at what they could do from an artistic point of view, and how they could give more and more people an ever higher wage. So what I can say is that there are obviously fears, and there are a lot of legitimate questions here in the debate, but I can tell you one thing: if the same process goes through, say, the archives or other cultural institutions, then the institutional leaders, both economic and professional leaders, will have room for manoeuvre as to how they want to work, what they might be able to attract in their own institutional area. I am also sure that if we look at the wage level, they will be forced to adapt their wages to market conditions. I say this from my own experience, from an experience that has been working for years, and I have to say that this, on the other hand, has a very big responsibility for the institutional leaders and economic leaders of all time, how they can transform their entire institutional system in such a way that they meet the challenges of the age. I think this bill is obviously not just about that, but about something else, let's say, about the organisation of libraries. In this connection, I would like to say that in the last ten years, there has been an unprecedented amount of support in every section of Hungarian culture. So the arguments that have been made here in this regard from the point of view of the government are simply Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Well, in this debate, I think that all arguments have now been made, both pro and versus, we cannot convince each other. You come with Margaret Thatcher quotes, and we say that we should refer to or rather apply to Hungarian social and economic philosophy XIII. Pope Leo's Rerum novarum. We believe that what he wrote there would still be valid. Well, why is it unacceptable? We have told you that the time of this entire bill is incomprehensible. Why now? Why do you have to be in such a tense situation when a lot of people, a whole society, feel that their safety has been shaken, why do you have to throw this whole transformation at their necks? It is also unacceptable for us because the lack of consultation itself, the way the referral itself leaves much to be desired. Quite simply, highly qualified intellectuals should not be treated in this way, these people guard and cultivate Hungarian culture and make them feel that this is not what I deserve from you. Then we are not at peace with its content either, it is quite clear that the people who work in the public service, and that the people who give their lives for this area, are now using great words, but they really think of their profession as a profession should not be subject to market logic, because this is a chemically pure neoliberal approach, which we cannot agree with before, now or in the future. We have said that from a labour and existential point of view, these cultural workers, this almost 20,000 people, as well as the last bases and bastions of local culture, are in a much worse position in Hungary's deprived regions. We're seeing these dangers, and it's possible to say that they're some sort of gut vision, gut and unfounded fear, but the fact is, you've shown your teeth a protein. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Or the fact is that you, following a Leibniz philosophy, as the disciples of Master Pangloss, believe that everything is all right, and what is, is the best of existing worlds, or at least, if you can make things that way, it will become that. The thing is, the latest events have exposed you. During the fall of last year, people in vocational training were stunned by a 30-percent wage increase, and by the way, they will have the opportunity to make an effective wage deal. What's going on? They're having their so-called evaluation these days, which means these people are going to be categorized. So there it is clear what will be expected of the workers of the cultural sphere. There is no effective wage deal, we are talking about a lease, and there is no normal evaluation system. An opaque, vague and possibly inadequate evaluation system has been set up. What is, the reality, is that the cunning fear governs, and in many cases in the centers of vocational training centres, on the principal's or chancellor's doors, it could be written out that it's a tricky fear, because the people who work there live in it, and they can easily get that if they don't like it, they can go, right, on a Gyurcsányi basis, on a neoliberal basis. That's what we just can't be supportive of. Indeed, there is the fear that John Lázár expressed four years ago, and the warning he gave us, the advice that there are 300,000 civil servants in Hungary, who should be disposed of in such a way that this status should be taken away from them. You're now at 50 grand in time. Vocational training workers and those working in the cultural field represent exactly this large, 50,000 people. Here, too, we ask again who will be next, which sector they intend to extend this neoliberal concept, with which we will certainly not be able to identify as a responsible party in a country in such a situation. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal, which has been put before us, will not be adopted. We are obviously also aware that you cannot be convinced of our right and these real fears, unfortunately, and will continue on the path that we believe will not bring this society a happier future. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have had many absurd accusations here in the last half hour, and even more absurd speeches have left the mouths of my opposition fellow Members, as Gurmai Zita, for example, said that we are erecting sculptures for our writers in this cultural space or in this period. Congresswoman, you have received a statue recently by Gyula Krúdy, István Fekete, Magda Szabó, Attila József, Kálmán Mikszáth, I was present at several statues. Please indicate, please, in the corridor, who you have a problem with, or who you say is our writer and who you are not happy with having a statue in Hungary, for example, they have been given statues in Hungary for the last ten years. My better colleague, Brenner Koloman, said that it would be important to raise wages. This bill also includes the first step, and far from the last, we can promise that, but it's weird that a better representative says that, where, if we look at who has reduced the wages of cultural employees throughout the country, it's only the Mayor of Ozd, a better mayor. [[11.00]] So if we look at the whole country, there's one place where the wages of cultural employees are reduced, your place where Jobbik is in power, where Jobbik governs, Ozdon. Everywhere else, where there is state authority, there is a rise in the wages of cultural employees, and you are reducing it. After that, Brenner Koloman's sublime speech on the appreciation of cultural workers is a little deceitful, and I doubt his honesty. Vice President Hiller said the conceptual difference. There really is a conceptual difference between us, and I don't think we've denied it before, and we don't want to. We would also like to go through Hungarian culture and prepare for the 21st century. To the next 30-50-60-100 years, and not to the '90s, to take models and exercises with us. I would say to Congressman Ungár that Margaret Thatcher has done many good things, and she has very good sentences that can be quoted, and she has good speeches, and I would suggest to her that she read it. Quoting someone does not mean that they fully agree with their every move or that they think the same way in all their economic policy instruments. Congressman has quoted countless people on his Facebook, including Tivadar Farkasházy, so he may not fully agree with him. It doesn't mean that he's taking over the whole ideology. I think that wage increases are a key issue, and I think we all agreed on that in the last debate. This step will also be implemented here. I ask the Secretary of State to work to make sure that this is not the last step, that further steps be taken here in the wage increase. I think that I would not respond to my better fellow Member, in what a nasty way he has involved nationalities in this political debate. So if someone agrees with something the government is doing, it's not necessarily a bad person, so let's not get into this kind of debate. In the institutions of nationality, which maintain a number of cultural institutions, they see this solution as appropriate and see this solution as a forward-looking solution. I think that the rigid promotion system of the civil servant pay table is also a strain in the cultural sphere, and that it is not appropriate for the above mentioned Article XXI. We're doing the promotion of the century. I think it's very important that the heads of institutions get a big opportunity. This will also give them a huge responsibility, and they will have to make good use of the responsibility that they have as head of the institution, as a maintainer, as an employer, will be able to take advantage of this opportunity in these cultural institutions. I think this is a huge responsibility, because you need to be able to manage your wages well, you need to manage human resources well, you need to establish important professional criteria for your own workers. By the way, competitiveness is obviously not the most important term in this debate, competitiveness is not the first, and, obviously, Vice-President Hiller does not mean how many Goth texts can be read in a given minute, that is the measure of competitiveness, and I do not think we do, although this law will not, or will not, apply to the archives in Florence if we accept it. But I do think that differentiation gives an institution manager an opportunity to live with, to find talent, to highlight certain workers with whom he can count, to facilitate his system of advancement and to highlight him from among others. So I think that there may also be positive cultural benefits to this law after that, apart from the wage increase and flexibility mentioned here. There may be positive benefits that will also show talent, help in the future, which will serve to enrich the entire Hungarian culture, which, I think, is a common interest, a national maximum here in the House, to preserve Hungarian culture, to appreciate cultural workers, and of course to thank them for their work. We are all working to continue to have more cultural events in the future, when this epidemic is over, because we all miss it very much, to expand the libraries, the archives, the archives, the collections, and to enrich Hungarian culture with more and more lectures, so that we can make available to as many people as possible the beautiful Hungarian culture that we all love, respect, and for which we work together here. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr L. Simon László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Just a few little things, because in this debate, both in the general debate and in the Commission's debates we have already put forward the arguments, but I do not want to leave unanswered what my fellow Member Bana said here, that it is the reduction of culture and the withdrawal of resources that we can experience. It's very, very far from the truth. If I just think that in 2010, when we took over government and in the following year, the cultural Tao did not reach 7 billion forints, and now the Tao grant fund is 37.5 billion for the Ministry, I think that this is self-indulgent. So, however you look at it, it's almost a six-fold increase in the amount of aid in less than a decade. This does not mean that resources have been drawn from other areas. Simply the opposition charge and the public journalistic claim that the current government is only doing statistical tricks with numbers and that the growth of cultural resources can only be shown by the fact that we are based on large investments and investment in the European Union there, it is simply not true. Although, if that were true, I would not understand what the problem is, why we cannot be happy that the Hungarian government is renovating, repairing and developing the institutions from the Academy of Music to the Opera House, from the Várbazár to the theatre in Kaposvár or Szolnok. Moreover, these funds are quickly noted not only by EU funds, for example, some of the theatres are renovated from purely national sources. Or think, let's say, about the renovation of the Szentendre art colony, the renovation of the legendary Szigliget literary creative house, all of these were purely from national sources. So we should be happy about this. But all of this brings with it an increase in operating aid. The creation of a new institution or the renovation and expansion of an old institution also requires additional funding each year. The Opera House will receive additional funding. By giving the Opera House two new playgrounds, because we have completely renovated the Erkel Theatre from national sources, or we have created the Eiffel Hall, and there has been an exhibition space and playground, a rehearsal room, an institutional unit serving a large, serious opera culture, these also increase the everyday financing needs of the Hungarian State Opera House as a prominent cultural institution, and the government provides budgetary support for this. The creation of the Robert Capa Contemporary Photography Center by this government also requires continued funding and maintenance support. These are significant increases in resources, but once again, not only in this area, but also in the case of the call for proposals for the cultural lake, for example, we can see that it is a significant increase in resources that we have been able to register year after year. Overall, we are talking about many tens of billions of forints, which have been included in the Hungarian cultural institutional system and in the support of Hungarian creators as free sources and free-to-use sources. But when I think about the fact that when we took over the National Cultural Fund, the total budget of the National Cultural Fund in 2010 was HUF 7.5 billion, and we exercise it over 11 billion, I think it speaks for itself. So it is not true that the cultural institutional system, the reduction of the cultural budget, would take place. These are well-sounding opposition charges, but they are simply not factually true. These are stated by our fellow Members who are unaware of the numbers and cornerstones of the budget law which they themselves have negotiated. But this claim, or this accusation, is hardly linked to the debate of the current bill. This bill, as we have talked about many times, is about the need to establish public employment status in certain areas, and this discharge of civil servant status does not entail any damage to the security of the institutional system in any way. In fact, I'm willing to risk a much more stable management from the head of the institution, a much more efficient management of human resources. I don't think an actor or a museum worker should be a public servant. We have given many examples at earlier stages of the debate, and I do not want to repeat them. And what Minister Hiller said about the archivists, we also said in the Commission debate, is a consideration worth returning to. We'll see how the system tests during the conversion. I think there are some things that can be easily corrected later, but let us first see how this system will work. [[11.10]] If I remember correctly, we are talking about a total of 890 civil servant archivists in state and municipal applications, with the current transformation their status will also change, but it will be revealed in the coming period that this requires any correction or not. Overall, we see a very great opportunity to finally eliminate this ageless, advanced system in the cultural area, and I hope that, in addition to what the government has promised for the 6 percent increase in wages, other sources can be used to increase the wages of those working in the cultural area. This, again, is independent of whether someone is a civil servant or not a civil servant. Even what my fellow Member Ungár said: I do not think that competition is a concept that is alien to culture and cultural institutions. The public collection sector is also measured in an international space. I think in the museum space in which great international exhibitions attract the attention of Hungarian visitors, in the space where Hungarian opera lovers compare the operation of the Opera House in Budapest with the opera house in Vienna, or the performance of the orchestras playing Hungarian classical music should be the Festival Orchestra, the National Philharmonic Orchestra, serious rural orchestras such as Szolnok, of course they are compared with the large competitors of Europe. We are in a competition area where students from many western countries of Czech, Slovak and Europe also learn from the Hungarian Academy of Music and move the music culture here to other countries and compare it with their own national culture. Or, if you look at the performance of the Hungarian ballet ensembles, you have to look at the Győri Ballet, the Szegedi, the Pécs, in the international comparison with the competitors there, and not only we, the leaders of the area, but also those who regularly watch productions here and abroad. Professionals like Attila Egerházi, who founded the Ballet Theatre in Székesfehérvár a few years ago, came home, who graduated from the Dance Academy at home, studied and performed at home, then went abroad, and was a co-worker and student of the world-famous, great choreographer Jiří Kylián, and after dancing all over Europe, and then, as a choreographer, he learned everything that could be learned from the greatest ones, came home, and in Hungary, with the support of the local government in Székesfehérvár, he founded a new budgetary body, creating a ballet company. Obviously, he must also compete with existing Hungarian companies Győr, Szeged, Pécs, Budapest, and compete with foreign partners, attend international festivals, and show what we can do. Let's not say that the thought and spirit of competition and competition are alien to culture. We look at any other area, any other cultural area, cinema, publishing books, anything, there is competition everywhere; if nothing else, readers must compete for the attention of authors, audiences' love and attention for authors and creators. So I would like to make it clear here that the idea of competition is not an alien idea for us; for us, it is that we are dynamicizing the institutional system in such a way that competition does have a role, and that, by the way, the workers are motivated from this point of view, it is very important from a professional and political point of view. So I would like to ask my fellow Members once again to support the bill and to come back to what experience the introduction of the new system has brought and that it will have to be corrected somewhere. In the last ten years, this government has not once been afraid to make the necessary changes in order to improve the system with the ability to correct itself. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Fekete, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that his timeframe is 15 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-51	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I gave up the presentation of the speaker's exposé in order to be able to respond in the closing words to the suggestions made by his representatives. I would like to thank Mr L. Simon László for having already answered a lot of questions, because we tend to think that if a sentence is made out of the mouth of Members of the Parliament of Hungary, it is so. And I understood that every opportunity must always be taken by opposition representatives to tell their thoughts, their ideology, to give them space to do so, but in many cases, the reality of this being said in Parliament is at least questionable. I am very careful with the words that credibility and lies I have heard from Mrs Gurmai Zita, but I understand the weight of this, that when someone tells you something, someone has to answer why they don't. Ladies and Gentlemen, Tibor Bana talked about bleeding out Hungarian culture. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have said in this place about four times so far that Hungary spends the most money on culture in Europe in proportion to its GDP. How can we talk about bleeding when, in the pandemic situation only, Hungary's Government was among the first to release the contribution of the kata, the contribution of the normal salaries immediately, and, with immediate effect, the transfer of one billion HUF in the cultural sector to the advance payment of the artists who are in difficulty in the pandemic situation? How can we talk about bleeding out? Please look at the resources of neighbouring countries for culture, compare them with the resources of Hungary in this direction, and you will see immediately that we are at the forefront! Therefore, these sentences are completely contrary to the actual data provided by Eurostat. Thank you very much, Mrs Zita Gurmai, for giving advance to the adoption of the law, and also thank you for looking into it and for telling me by date when the discussions took place during the preparation of this law. And even though I'm rarely here in Parliament, and I'm used to those words between you, the very rude and very nasty words being spoken, for me, since I'm rarely here, I have to stop, and I have to say that in the word of credibility and lies, we have to draw up the minutes and see what's written in the minutes. If Hungary's Secretary of State for Culture says that at the time you indicated that the prior consultation on the discharge of the civil servant status was held, then it is true that Hungary's Secretary of State for Culture must be credible on this subject. And to someone whose name he doesn't remember, referring to an anonymous person, you can't say to the cultural secretary that he wasn't telling the truth when it was in the record. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's run this one more time. A year and a half ago, the cultural sector began to analyse the question of how to secure more serious wages for people working in the cultural sector precisely because they are extremely important to us. And through many, many steps of this analysis, we looked at a career model test, looked at an opportunity to make a deposit, looked at a wage development opportunity to pour public money into a bad system, it was irresponsible. First, we need to put the system in order, and then we have the right to go to the financial administration, and we have the right to ask for more resources in the form of a wage mass. So this is a very prepared bill. And I must convince Mr Hiller that there is no ulterior motive in why we have now reached the debate on this bill, because this preparatory process has just come here. And they twisted my word in the press when I said it wasn't a better time than this, so now we've had a chance to analyze it from home, arguing with each other to clean up this process. Thank you for the fact that the Member has indicated that there has been a substantive debate here during the preparations, and it is very important that you have confirmed this. Indeed, there was a very serious substantive debate at committee meetings, where the opinions of professional organisations, the trade union, could be incorporated. Please allow me to list this because, for the third time, it has come up that this is not the case: we have negotiated with 26 professional organisations, 32 trade unions and a professional association have made a substantive proposal, 53 textual proposals have been made, 70% of which have been accepted. [[11.20]] What if it's not a good legislative process? We have adopted 32 substantive proposals. Just to put things into place: National Széchényi Library, Hungarian Archives Association, Hungarian Archives Council, Hungarian National Archives, Pulszky Society Hungarian Museum of Fine Arts, Petőfi Literary Museum, Ethnographic Museum, Open-air Museum of Ethnography, Hungarian National Museum, National Association of Cultural Centres, House of Traditions, National Institute of Culture Nonprofit Közhasznú Kft., Association of Art Trade Unions, Operetta Theatre, Opera House, National Theatre, Hungarian National Dance Ensemble, National Artist, Centre of Performing and Circus Arts, Association of Hungarian Rural Museums. I personally, online, conducted a dialogue with these organizations during the legislative process. That's where all 32 of them came from. We have adopted proposals such as the need for the employer to consult on the transformation of the public employment relationship into employment, in addition to the obligation to provide written information, to initiate consultations with the trade union and civil servant council by 1 August. This came in, for example. In addition to the rules of the Kjt. on Jubilee Rewards, the provisions of the Kjt. relating to severance payments shall apply to the transformational employment relationship for the five years following the transformation. That worked, too. They suggested it, we understood it, we fought for it, we put it in. During the transformation of the civil servant status, no probationary period shall be imposed in respect of the employment relationship. It was a suggestion, we accepted it, we put it in. Transitional provision that the transformation of civil servant status into employment does not affect existing management mandates and that the legislation governing the entry into force of this Act should be applied in an appropriate manner when issuing new management proposals. It's a suggestion. We put it in. I have highlighted only a few of those that have been included in the law during this legislative process. I think it is important to note that during the preparatory negotiations a year ago, trade union and professional leaders put their hands on the idea that, Mr. Secretary of State, we should quickly put in some sort of wage development, so that the workers can see that we take them seriously, that it is not a set-off, but a forecast. The six percent we're talking about shows this. And the allocation process of this 6 percent is not just any kind of process, because we say that it should appear retroactively in the hands of the head of the institution for the whole year, and after the transformation process, the director can decide who to give it to. This is where we come back to Mr Hiller's question of competitiveness. This is also what we talked about at the Committee on Culture about, not the fact that the archivist is competitive, but whether his wages and his employment form are competitive. Competitiveness does not arise within the archives, but in relation to the economic spheres. I told him that we had asked the appropriate deans and managers of ELTE, who said that young people who had recently graduated would go to work in the economic sphere because they didn't have the right wage, because the head of the institution doesn't have the power to pay well, to pay the best workforce. We want to give you this back. We want the heads of institutions to be treated as adults, responsible adults, and to give them the weight of wages that allows them to decide who is the most competitive archivist, librarian, or public education expert for their institution. The fear of actors and actors' positions in the field of performing art has been said. We must stop here for a moment, because we are not aware that 70 percent of the people working in the field of performing art are no longer in the form of civil servants. They have long since taken this form of egress, and we have turned most of our theatres into gt. The process that I see during the preparation was that at the very beginning there was a very serious political tantrum, and the experts increasingly accepted it, understood that this law was good for them, also due to the fact that decisive public figures and cultural leaders stood up and told their good experiences about how to operate an institution where there are no barriers to public employment pay tables. Thank you to professionals who have done this, because they are both credible and have good experience, and based on their opinion they have been able to change their fear, the fear generated by politics is a little bit by the head of the institution. Congressman Péter Ungár fears that the number of people working in culture will decrease significantly. I am very afraid to say this, because the press again twisted this thought: indeed, there are very small numbers of workers in the cultural sector who, due to public security, did not do everything they could to work actively. They have a little something to be afraid of. They'll have to work a little more actively, maybe drop out. But it is not that, in accordance with our laws and regulations in the field of public education, we do not want a specialist in the smallest settlement who can manage the cultural management of that community! That is why we have created the Déryné programme, which brings culture to the smallest settlement. It is clear how important it is for this government to have respect for those who work in culture. We didn't build it for nothing, we didn't renovate our cultural scenes for a reason. Well, who's gonna run them if they're not the experts who are the best? It only takes our institutional leaders, the responsible leaders, to decide who is the best and to pay those who are the best at their job. Ladies and Gentlemen, It has been said several times that this 6 percent is a first step. I promise you that once this law is passed, and hopefully it will be passed, the kind of system that can then receive an effective distribution of wages, and the cultural sector will do everything in its power to bring an additional wage to the cultural sector by 6 percent in 2021. I very much believe that the cultural sector will be able to make good use of this increased wage burden. This was an extremely intensive and fruitful legislative process. I would like to thank you all for your constructive proposals. I believe that the measure serves to restore the cultural life of Hungary, and that, with competitive wages and employment, we can indisputably address the fate of cultural workers who continue to serve the public. In this spirit, I respectfully ask for the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. The Commission's reports on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the reconstruction project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line follow up and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Government referral T/9927. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I now give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee, in an eight-minute time frame; he will be followed by László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, who will present the minority opinion. Here you go, Congressman Potter.
u2020-05-19-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 30 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9927 on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway reconstruction project. Bill No. 1. [[11.30]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The investment in the submitted proposal will lead to a high-quality relationship between passengers and freight transport in the Budapest-Belgrád context, leading to a significant reduction in rail travel time between the two capitals, which will lead to a significant increase in traffic. According to professional expectations, the train path between the Serbian and the Hungarian capital can be shortened from eight to nine hours today to two and a half to three hours, and can mean a closer relationship with the Southern region, Vojvodina and Belgrade, for example. The project also fits into government plans for better transport interconnection of cities in Central Europe. Land connection to the port of Pireus in Greece will not only be significant for Hungarian foreign trade, but will be a key link in trade between the Far East and China and Europe in particular. Pyreus is one of the largest ports in the Mediterranean, which has been owned by the Chinese majority for years. Ships arriving from the Far East via the Suez Canal reach the European mainland here for the first time, and the goods are transferred from here to other parts of the continent, both on water and on land. One of the ways of land transfer is the railway from Pireus to the interior of the continent through the Balkans, which also affects Budapest. This railway line is part of a transport rail Corridor that the European Union has prioritised as regards transport infrastructure. This route will inevitably become a force for trade with the Far East, to which the Chinese' engagement in Pyreus is guaranteed. Dear Parliament, Hungary's participation in the railway project linking the port of Pyreus to other parts of Europe is therefore crucial. Our participation is essential for our country's long-term strategy, and it can boost the Hungarian economy not only in the short term, but also permanently, and also have a positive impact on other sectors of the economy. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted deserves support. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We can say that it is a sad duty to present an opinion on this project after the debates over the last few weeks. We had quite a heated debate here, and that was, if not so long, at the Legislative Committee meeting. And, yes, as my fellow Member has shown, the voting rates have also proved that there is a very sharp line between the pro-government and all other Members here, and it is quite clear that this disgrace, this project seriously hurting the interests of the nation, will obviously be passed by pro-government votes. I would like to say what has been left out of the information we have just heard, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that important information has not reached the Hungarian people in the debates over the past few weeks. Because the small problem is that the opposition representatives of the Parliament will not be answered, the bigger problem is that the government wants to spend a thousand billion forints in such a way that it encrypts all of this, and the underlying documents and contracts have not been published before. Well, in terms of the facts, it should be said that the value and investment of this project, together with all the additional elements, costs, with the interest rates on the Chinese big loan, will normally be around HUF 700 billion, which will cost. As I have already said, the Hungarian government is making this investment through Chinese credit, but it is quite clear that it will cost the Hungarian taxpayers a thousand billion, and they want to make Hungarian taxpayers pay for this development. There is no information as to what guarantees the Chinese party has taken, what commitments it has made in terms of utilisation, and in the absence of such information, Parliament will vote on this proposal today, and without such information, such basic information or basic information, the political logic will obviously dictate this shameful project to be adopted by the pro-government representatives. I also said in the debate at the Committee on Legislative Affairs that it is not possible to use smaller words here than that there is a betrayal of national interests. In the Legislative Committee, I raised the issue of encryption, saying or claiming that, in practice, with this encryption, that the underlying documents and contracts will be encrypted for ten years, the government recognizes the pointlessness of this project. Then I was told by the Secretary of State that this encryption must be enforced because of Chinese business interests. Well, I would like to draw attention to what this overall 1,000 billion project means: specifically, this project will cost all Hungarian families 370 thousand forints, Mr. State Secretary. And then let's see what we can do, what that amount is, try to make sense of it. Since the legislative committee debate took place, new, very negative, and we can say that scandalous developments have also occurred in the project. Last Friday, the government decided to transfer HUF 80 billion from the Economic Protection Fund to this project at the beginning of a major economic crisis, so they will spend more than HUF 140 billion instead of the HUF 60 billion originally planned for this year. Just yesterday Minister Palkovics or your ministry announced that they want to create 70,000 new jobs out of 80 billion forints. On the other hand, they want to spend 140 billion forints on this unverifiable, never-refundable investment. In Hungarian, this means that 125 thousand new jobs will be abandoned, only in order to push this project through, in such a way, I repeat, that they could not prove in any way that this could be justified from the side of Hungarian national interests in any way. Of course, we know that the Chinese is in line with great authority interests, and we also know that the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros will be able to make 300 billion out of this huge project. That's pretty amazing. It has also been said in the debate that all investments are necessary in this situation, and the Secretary of State has said this many times here in plenary. But that's not entirely true. There is indeed a need for investment, but it is very important that investments are needed, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Members, which will be repaid. If we are talking about such sums, so, in particular, according to your calculations, we are talking about the creation of 125 000 jobs, then we should give a very thorough explanation and explain how this investment is going to pay off. An investment makes sense if it serves specific needs. In this case, this cannot be said, so there is no real need for travel, nor does the need for transport from the point of view of national interests, since the most important industrial areas are avoided by this line. This is only good for the Chinese in terms of transport. With regard to utilisation, it can be said that the passenger transport on the Belgrade-Skopje-Szaloniki line was terminated just last year due to the lack of interest, because there was no such traffic. You've forgotten that, too. It is very important that we also need guarantees, investments that bring concrete economic benefits. And above all, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, when you want to take a thousand billion forints out of the pockets of the Hungarian people, please explain the economic benefits that this brings. You have not done this, and indeed, the documents that we ourselves have not seen cannot be seen by the Hungarian people, are now surely encrypted for ten years. It also does not take into account the fundamental need for a different approach to economic policy. You're talking about a green project. How green investment is it to build infrastructure for mass freight from the other half of the world, from distant continents, with Hungarian taxpayers' money? So, in practice, this reconnaissance is paid to Hungarian taxpayers, and on the other hand, this amount is taken away from people in the same way. They could boost a self-sufficient economy based on this huge amount of money, which would reduce Hungary's vulnerability and give it the opportunity to meet and produce the most important needs locally and regionally. You also claim that it is green, I have just said, that the transport of Chinese bulk and dumping products from remote continents can never be green, and it cannot in any way be compared with national interests. This is contrary to national interests and is contrary to the patriot economic policy that you like to emphasise and mention. However, this investment is not green either, because of this amount it would be possible to make huge improvements to the infrastructure elements of the domestic rail network that are still used and serving real transport needs. According to experts, a significant proportion of the slow signs of the current Hungarian railway network, the problematic sections, could be improved from a thousand billion forints to the quality of life in the countryside, to the catching up of the countryside and indeed to the construction of a sustainable greener economy. You are using this money to serve the great interests of China. But obviously we won't be able to convince each other here several weeks after the debate begins. Although there will be another vote, it is quite clear that we will reject it, so we will vote against this proposal, but at the same time there will be a separate amendment on the resolution of encryption. I will be very curious how my fellow members of the Government vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]] [[11.40]]
u2020-05-19-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I respectfully ask Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak now, or just in the closing word. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] The Secretary of State will speak only in the closing words. I would like to inform you that a total time frame of 15 minutes will be available for discussion and closing. Honourable Parliament, the designated Economic Committee has not issued a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda; the timeframes will be read for all of you on the billboard, and I will ask for them to be respected. I would like to inform you that at the moment there are five people who have applied for a speech, so that no one gets the floor as a surprise: Balázs Ander, László Szakács, László Varju, Lőrinc Nacsa and László Lóránt Keresztes. I therefore give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Well, we've got the new Lawrence Protection Plan ahead of us. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's a disgrace! We won't accept it. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] It's a disgrace! We won't accept it. (Lőrinc Nacsa:) When, my unworthy colleague Nacsa, less than 0.4 per cent of GDP is destined to save jobs in this crisis and 0.5 per cent of GDP is allocated to create jobs in proportion to the amount of GDP, then they would destroy about 2 per cent of GDP for this insane project, yes, along with related investments, and who knows? ! Where's the end of all this? We now see it as a sum of about a thousand billion forints, but there have been precedents, my fellow Members, that during a railway project, a railway construction and renovation, in which your all-knowing Oberstrómanführer (Development in the ranks of the opposition) has been involved. ), the prices have been appalledly increased. Just think of the Szombathely-Zalasentiva electrification or the otherwise very good, very useful Southern Balaton railway renovation! However, it doesn't matter that, in the case of the latter example, about 25 billion forints were added, which is missing from somewhere. We would also miss this thousand-billion-dollar sum, and we do not see that this should now be achieved, what is the urgent reason, other than what we have said here, so the ever closer relationship between Fidesz and the Chinese Communist Party, this amazing hug because you are looking for a new owner, because, let us say, the needs of this neo-colonialist and expansional Eastern Golem must be met, and you are assisting as partners. By the way, sell, let's say, the Hungarian future for glass beads and trinkets, as has happened in many cases before in history! But I can also bring in the fact that, speaking of China's expansion, Ugandans have been better off, they receive a motorway of about HUF 3 billion per kilometer, also with Chinese loans and Chinese contributors. We'll get 5-6 billion forints per kilometer for this railroad. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ!]] It's absolutely amazing. This is something that the politically responsible political force cannot simply say yes to, especially considering that it is also out of your mind that the Chinese government will have a say in what to encrypt here and what not to do with this entire investment. This really is a pure expression of colonial existence, of colonial status. Mr. Secretary, once again you are here, it would have been better if I had just told you once again that if the author, who will take the fall for you, instead of all this shame. We are living in critical times, not knowing where the entire history of the coronal virus epidemic will run out, how much it will bring down the Hungarian economy, and in such a situation, you want to smoke out this thousand billion forints amount, which, say, would have a much better place elsewhere, so this project could be postponed, even if it had some sort of economic rationality. But we also told you a thousand times here, my fellow Christian Member, now I don't know how many times he, I, and all of us on the opposition side, where is the guarantee, where is the feasibility study, where are the guarantees on the part of the Chinese partner that will ensure that this is not a money cemetery, the Hungarian people, and not the cemetery of Lőrinc Mészáros's private property, money, but the bottomless well of the Hungarian people's money, its sink? Where are these guarantees? ! If you are so sure that this investment is so good for the Hungarian economy, for Hungarian society, for the Hungarian future, then why is there so much secrecy? We don't see these rational foundational studies, we can't see them, I add, because you're keeping secrets, and we have a suspicion that it's not without a reason. What then, honourable pro-government colleagues, if the Chinese party thinks one thing and, say, moves its trading center to Trieste, and instead of Pireus, say, that's the shipping center, what happens to this expensive railroad? Who's gonna use this? [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] The thousand billion forints spent on it... my colleague Nacha nodded that, yes, he would be used. Then why isn't this in writing? At least now it will be in the minutes, but we would like to see a more tangible, professional promise about this instead of simply nodding, because once again we are talking about a thousand billion forints. There will be such an increase in turnover that what is still being raised here as an argument, let's say, that the increase in customs revenue can be achieved in such a way that then, let's say, not in 2400 years, and then sometime around 4420, this entire investment will bring in its price, but let's say, in just a hundred or a few years? You can't even see these foundational studies or calculations. How this will affect economic recovery is also a very questionable matter. According to KSH data, our foreign trade traffic measured in the 2017 Hungarian-China relations looked like a 700 billion-dollar product went from Hungary to Hungary, with a value of 1400 billion forints coming from China. This deteriorated to 2019 at a level that Hungarian exports decreased to 500 billion and the Chinese increased to 2000 billion. Ladies and gentlemen in the pro-government benches, you may be embedded with an even more drastic deterioration in Hungarian trade if you do not prove otherwise. It is financed by Hungarian people's money so that Chinese goods can flood the domestic markets even more than before. It is clear what this is about: China wants references to European markets, and to this you are now giving Eastern Golem the opportunity with this terrible investment, with this treaty, and we will certainly not be an Eastern lance mountain within Europe, but China and the East's sucker, China's new colony here in the middle of Europe. In addition to the good 60 billion planned for this year, 82 billion forints will now be added to this project, the foam on the cake. Seriously, is there no other area in this country in a situation where this HUF 82 billion could be transferred from economic protection? Since my fellow Member, Mr Keres, has spoken about environmental protection, it is with this that climate protection objectives are covered, that is why we need to improve this, and I would like to point out that we are talking about around 2 percent of the total national railway length. I do not know what serious climate protection goals will be achieved here by developing 2 percent, but on this basis we could also talk about why inland navigation is not being developed. We are not anti-railers, we could develop a lot there, because the slow signals that make passenger transport catastrophic at least 40 percent of the total track length should indeed be eliminated in the case of a normal transport policy. [[11.50]] From this amount, a huge improvement could be achieved on the length of the lines of the MÁV. But then I would go back to the inland trade, which is only 3 percent in Hungary, compared to 30 percent in the Netherlands, the German or Bulgarian, Serbian and Romanian levels of 10 percent. If it were to serve environmental and climate policy goals, for example, to develop this and the Danube-Majna-Rain channel, which runs through Hungary, is otherwise 3,500 kilometers long overall, and the geographical centre of which is exactly here in Hungary, at Dunaalmás, can be used better from the Hungarian side, then resources should be spent on this. From a fraction of this crazy project, this could be accomplished, and it would be much more accessible, let's say, the Rotterdam, which has a port with a capacity of 10 to 20 million years of container capacity and the Chinese goods pouring into it. That Chinese product could be taken away in other ways, and not only through the renewal of the 150 line, as you set out here for the Hungarian society, otherwise making very, very false arguments professionally and in all other respects. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So, Jobbik says not to come up with Lawrence protection plans, but to focus on economic protection, and this is the project that will not allow it and will not facilitate it. Mr. Secretary of State [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] I don't know what it is to convince you...
u2020-05-19-58	Congressman, I'm afraid you've spoken 30 seconds longer, but I'll return the floor to the final sentence.
u2020-05-19-59	Excuse me, Mr. President. Thank you very much. We're not gonna vote for it. We find it shameful! Indeed, this thousand billion HUF is to be spent on Hungarian people and not on the further growth of Lőrinc Mészáros! Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard a lot in this Chamber, even during the debate on this proposal, about the patriot economic policy or the economic protection action plan, which is historic, but has not yet been announced, we have heard quite a lot about it, especially about how the government is reluctant to indebte the country and take credit. At times like this, I always draw attention to the fact that this government actually does not hesitate. The two largest creditors of Hungary today are Russia and China. We are committed to them, and beyond that we are committed to your strategic partners, the multinational companies, where the workers were sold and therefore had to adopt a slave law, Paks II. was financed by a Russian loan, and the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is financed by a Chinese loan. I do not say that there is a thousand-year-old great power that plans the next one or two thousand years. We need to discuss Hungary's role in this, its role, how much it is indebted to you, and whether this will ever pay off. The payback numbers were actually scattered, but none of them are positive. Some people say very positively, optimistically, that this investment can pay off in up to 500 years, but some people say very pessimisticly that this investment will pay off in 2000-2400 years. I think we basically don't have that kind of time. The question we have to ask is not whether we need this investment or not, let the Chinese partner decide that we should play this role. The sad topicality of this debate today is due to the fact that this kind of economic policy of the Russian and Chinese governments is beginning to raise issues of sovereignty, and raises questions of self-determination, not just economics: where do they decide on Hungarian affairs? Moscow? Beijing? Well, they're funding it! They finance these investments, and I think that is what is a political interest that should be prevented, especially for those who talk about patriot economic policy. What's patriotism about that? The fact that Lőrinc Mészáros will be among the suppliers? I do not think that this is patriotism on this issue. But the sad topicality of the economic protection action plan, whose frame numbers are rather strange, is because we only heard three of them yesterday, which is supposed to be worth 10,000 billion, and later it turns out that this will be in three years, half of which will be loaned to the companies, of which 82 billion forints have been saved. This was taken from the Hungarian people's table. This is no more complicated, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian unemployed people were on the street, waiting for the government to help. We've put the proposal down. You took this money off the table, you took this money from the people, and you gave it to an investment with a payback of 2,400 years. Hungarian people need the Hungarian government to help them now, not 2400 years from now, not the Belgrade people, not the Chinese, but the Hungarians. If we add what we heard at the Economic Commission meeting, that Mátra Power was also bought for 140 billion forints from Lőrinc Mészáros, and how much more they want to spend on it, they spend roughly the same amount, more on friends and Chinese people than they do on the protection of Hungarian workers. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that it would be a real patriot attitude, it would be a real patriotic attitude if the first was the Hungarian employee, and then we would think about what international projects it is worth to be strategically involved in. But what does this case bring us in the short term? Certain elements of this contract have been encrypted. We have been told by the Secretary of State that the elements that serve to prevent the foreign and foreign affairs policy have been encrypted. Well, what conditions could there be in this treaty, which can also limit our foreign policy? Or, if there are such ones, why do we conclude contracts that, if they were to come to light, would our foreign policy be limited, and would not have sufficient room for manoeuvre? Here, of course, we have to ask the question, and I know that you are reluctant to do this, like that the European Union, and in truth, you post a poster of this country, saying that the Union wants to hurt us, why are they not our partners? Why are our partners with whom we conclude contracts in order to ensure that our political room for manoeuvre is not reduced, then it must be encrypted? Why are our partners like Vladimir Putin's Russia, with whom we have to build the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? Why didn't our partners, with whom we have a common federal system, a common economic unity, imagine our future together and work for a strong Europe? We have not received adequate answers to these questions. In fact, we have received no answers to these questions, so we will not support this. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-62	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by MEP László Varju, DK Group. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think that there is no reason why the pro-government Members are so modestly present in this debate today, because we all know that this draft law is very difficult to defend, I would say it cannot be defended, and they are not surprised that it is consistently drawn to the attention from the benches of the opposition, depending on their vehemency, that this law is unacceptable, what you have brought to this House. [[12.00]] My fellow Member, Mr László Keresztes, gave the opposition's views on this draft law in detail as a minority opinion, and as we move forward in the comments, I think that the arguments that my previous statement, which is unacceptable, are coming together in order to support it more and more. I am trying to look for arguments that complement what has been said so far and line up, or rather complement, the arguments that appear to you, if not touchingly or acceptablely, since the political intention or decision has already been made to borrow a thousand billion forints, to impose a burden on Hungarian people, to build up debt for Hungarian families, and to essentially spend this resource on the development of 166 kilometres of railway track. It will be one of the locations of this source, and on the railway line through which it passes to Taksony-Dunavarsány, in Dunavarsány, in the middle of the city, which will create a whole new situation in the city; and I think a new urban atmosphere, if it can be regarded as a mood, that trains passing through the middle of the city, which are hundreds of meters long, will continue to go on. And if your development plans come true, they're basically going to go on a 160-mile-an-hour average in this place as well. Many cities, some of them may still be listed, which are otherwise on this line, but to say that there is a significant increase in passenger transport, I think that this cannot be said, there is no such thing. This development makes the progress of non-stop trains, the constantly twitching trains, smooth on two platforms, and primarily serves the economic interest behind it. I would add that I think that development can be seen in two directions, on the one hand, what is presented here, and they say that this is a commercial interest, but here, in a small repetition, it must be underlined that this is in the interest of Chinese trade in the first place. They do not bring thousands of tons of goods to Hungary on this railway line, if they reach Budapest and Belgrade in any way, but this applies primarily to distribution or distribution on the European market. But in addition to or in addition to this repetition, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, since this railway line is not going anywhere, I think that this is not primarily a story of commercial interests, but of being a reference for railway construction in Europe. And if you recall the debate between European railway companies and the European Commission over the past year, while Hungary is taking a step towards the emergence of Chinese capacities in the field of European railway development, it is certainly interesting to know whose interests the Hungarian government represents in Hungary, and rather the Hungarian government in Europe. I must say that the Hungarian people are certainly not. In this regard, let us say that endeavours may become understandable in this respect, but this must be done by encrypting them, because in the next ten years this information cannot be accessed in connection with the adoption of this law; although I believe that the termination of the secret provider or its political attitude should be re-equipped in the event of a change. If someone doesn't understand, then after a change of government, we have to come back to this, because in this form, I think it's unacceptable. So the Chinese interests are clear and clear. Hungarian interests cannot prevail in this respect. And as a final thought, I would like to draw attention to the fact that all of this is being done in a context where, in the convergence programme that has been joined to the European Union, we are, in our own view, faced with a prolonged, existing crisis that creates an uncertain situation, and in the meantime, they are already starting to spend the available credit, rather than, in the interests of Hungarian workers, thinking that they would rather save jobs with real wage support and create real jobs, apart from supporting Lőrinc Mészáros's business with this opportunity. The law is unacceptable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2020-05-19-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of each speech, you said that you had not received answers to your questions. They did, but you didn't like it, and it's not according to your own political beliefs, so you can't accept these answers. I was very frightened when Balázs Ander spoke, because the fashion of Jobbik now is that all those who disagree with Peter James or say otherwise will be killed politically, as we see at Tamás Sneider. Congressman, Peter James tried to play a number war here week after week, the last time he said 1700 billion was how much the project costs. You don't listen to your boss because you only talked about 1,000 billion. Don't let him get hurt, listen to this, or apologize in public, or I don't know what your custom is. You're talking about glass beads. This is also dangerous in Jobbik, because you call dual citizenship glass beads, this is Jobbik's national policy that your politician called dual citizenship glass beads, so be careful with that expression. I would say to my MSZP fellow Member that the Hungarian people saw HUF 2800 billion in damage due to the construction of two motorways, the PPP construction and the non-benefitful contracts. We are talking about motorways M5 and M6, where HUF 2800 billion was damaged by Hungarian taxpayers, Hungarian families. So I think that you, having brought this infinitely harmful construction here to Hungary and even in the process of being indebted to the country in parallel, have no moral or professional basis to question the importance or usefulness of this investment. Our colleague László Varju also spoke about the investment and the encryption. The professional depth of your comment is explained by the fact that this railroad is not going anywhere. I would like to point out to my fellow Member that the last time we had ten years of encryption was around your house, with Csaba Czeglédy, the contract with the criminal, the same number of ten years of encryption at the newbuda municipality. So when you're making references to encryption or ten years, you should start by sweeping your own house and talking to other Gyurcsányist politicians that maybe you shouldn't be encrypting contracts for your friends, and you shouldn't even make them. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a geopolitical situation, we have a geographical situation here in Hungary, which is a special situation. Over the centuries, we have seen the loss of this, as we have been marched through war roads, conquering armies, always in constant tension and war with different conquering peoples. The fact is that we will take advantage of this geopolitical situation for once, including the benefits of this geographical situation. For once, let's use it for our own good and use it to our advantage that we are here between North and South Europe, here we are between East and West, we can be a road, we can be a logistics center. [[12.10]] Yes, fellow Members, this railway line is not only about supplying the Hungarian market, it is not only about passenger transport, it is about becoming a logistics centre in Central and Eastern Europe and becoming Hungary. This is about using this route to take advantage of the political, geographical situation in which we are in and from which goods can be delivered to Western Europe, from here to Northern Europe, from which goods can be delivered to the surrounding countries. Let us take advantage of this situation, and let the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, finally win that we are here in the middle of Europe. Let's finally take advantage of this situation. However, you do not want to support this, and you do not want Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and the countries in the area to be the winners of this geopolitical and geographical situation. I think that every investment is needed in a crisis. An investment spins the economy, an investment creates jobs, saves jobs, and otherwise creates additional jobs due to new sub-contracting chains. This is also a very important investment in dealing with the crisis, as many smaller, larger, medium-sized investments are needed in the next period, so that the Hungarian economy can start again and continue its beautiful career from where it was before the crisis broke out, and where it stopped growing when we were leading Europe in economic growth. It hurts me, it offends my ears that you are constantly speaking against Hungarian investments, against the success of Hungarian companies. It's not a company, it's not an entrepreneur, it's a lot of entrepreneurs, it's a lot of Hungarian companies. For this investment, for other investments, for the renovation of smaller railway lines, for various large investments, for medium-sized investments, where Hungarian companies can kick the ball, that's a good thing. Whoever it is, whatever business it is, it is good to be able to bring such standards to the level that it is so competitive that it can succeed in an EU public procurement, by the way. I understand, however, that this is a bad time for you, and you would prefer that Western European companies build similar investments. It is not true that these lines, Chinese freight transport, would slow down. I support small supply chains, but we see the need for such routes in Europe. For example, the German freight rail company will only increase the number of containers to be taken from China by 20 percent this year, and DB Cargo will now increase the number of containers to 100,000 for this year alone. This is a 20 percent increase compared to the previous year. No one is to say that this branch of freight transport or this market is going down, because everyone, especially the Germans and then the French, is preparing to spin these economies. And I do not understand the Rotterdam example because it is a long supply chain, right here we would like goods to arrive there, in Western Europe, not from Western Europe, but we would like to be the supply and logistics centre from which this goods can otherwise reach Western Europe. They had the answers to their questions in the general debate, in the Commission section, Mr Secretary of State will answer today, and on several occasions they could read about it in the press, Minister Mihály Varga spoke about it last week, and he also said that the loan agreement was fixed interest. So what all financial market analysts expect is that the interest rate situation will continue to deteriorate and the financial market situation will deteriorate, and therefore interest rates will increase, will not affect this loan either, because it is fixed interest rate, therefore it will be eligible for financing, it will not go away, and public debt can also be reduced. All of these have been said by the relevant ministers and ministers of state each time, but you do not want to hear them, because you are constantly expressing a political opinion on this, you are not interested in the investment, you are not interested in creating jobs in Hungary, you are not interested in boosting the economy. Apparently, they're playing the harmful and false number war that resulted in Peter James talking about 1700 billion last week. James Peter is a rumorer, it's not true what he says. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Violation is also a crime!]] He's obviously trying to lie for political gain, but that's not it. I ask you to reconsider your position and support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The spread of rumors is a crime, and slander is also a crime with the spread of rumors!]]
u2020-05-19-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the outset, it was an important thought that my fellow Member has formulated. Indeed, if a person is accused of committing a crime, it is appropriate to justify it. But it is not my place to protect any of my fellow Members. By the way, it was interesting to listen to my fellow Member Nacsa, the only pro-government Member who seemed not to want to waste the House's time by means of a mechanical reading. He said he drew attention to the 2800 billion-dollar damage caused by Balliberal governments by building a motorway in the PPP structure, and that they were characterized by encryption. We totally agree with that. These are projects which were also contrary to national interest. It is shocking that you have been able to imitate your own spiritual ancestors so quickly and refer to them when you present such examples to this House and take exactly the same steps. My fellow Member, you say that we are not interested in creating new Hungarian jobs. My fellow Member, I said in today's debate, and I said yesterday that yesterday you announced a programme to create jobs, and according to your calculations, 70 000 out of 80 billion forints can be created. You will only spend 140 billion on this project this year. You say no to 125,000 new jobs. 125 thousand new Hungarian jobs are being sacrificed for this unsubstantiated project so that the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros can lose another 300 billion. Where is the job creation, my fellow Member, where is the economic development? ! Indeed, our questions have not been answered. My colleague Varju said that it is no wonder that there are no large numbers of pro-government Members here, because they know precisely that this is a huge responsibility. The push of a button that will happen here in an hour or two will be enormously heavy. However, you cannot say, fellow Members, that you do not have information. It is precisely because it is such a matter of great importance, and indeed the individual decision and vote of each Member is of great importance, so on 18 April I informed all my pro-government fellow Members, I wrote a very detailed letter to all Fidesz and all KDNP Members, I also asked questions, and I wrote exactly the arguments that have been made many times over the last few weeks. In this letter, I asked my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP not to answer me, but to share their thoughts with the Hungarian people, why, if they think this project is eligible, why they think that the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is worth more to Fidesz at the moment of the economic crisis, worth more to the government than the creation of 125 thousand new Hungarian jobs. So I sent this letter on 18 April, in which I described in detail the following arguments, so that is what my fellow members of the government can do, and they will take a personal decision here in a few hours' time and take responsibility for that decision. I have described to my fellow Members that the Government has not in any way demonstrated the effects that Lőrinc Nacsa spoke about in general. I also wrote that these documents, if there are any such grounding documents, feasibility studies, will be encrypted for ten years. So the Hungarian people cannot know what the Hungarian government intends to burn enough resources to create 125 thousand new jobs. I asked my fellow Members, and they know what technical content they are saying yes to, and in light of that, they obviously do not know, they are able to press a button for a thousand billion-dollar project. I drew attention to the unprecedented cost of this project, as the development of a kilometer has already been mentioned in the debate costs HUF 5 billion. This is quite amazing, this is the most expensive Hungarian railway development ever. Compared to other similar previous investments, improvements were made for a fraction of this. I have also drawn attention to this in the debate, and we have also heard from the pro-government member of the national legislative committee that this project is aimed at achieving the port of Pyreus. But in the other port, in the northern Italian port of Trieste, the government also launched a port development and Minister Szijjártó then said very clearly that the Hungarian port in Trieste in Northern Italy would meet all the transport needs of all domestic companies. This is in perfect contradiction with this whole project. So Minister Szijjártó himself admitted that a Hungarian port in northern Italy as a means of transport would be sufficient for Hungarian companies. I also pointed out in the letter that Italian politicians, who are close allies of the government, said that it is no longer relevant to invest in the transport route in the Balkans, it cannot be understood, as the Chinese have also launched huge improvements in the port of Trieste. [[12.20]] I also drew the attention of my fellow members of the Party of Government to the fact that, even if we are talking about the development of the domestic stage here to Belgrade, then a significant part of the section leading south is not suitable for this transport task, and we do not see in any way the plans and guarantees that this transport route will be meaningful to Pireus, regardless of whether this development between Budapest and Belgrade is realized. The suspension of passenger transport on the Belgrade-Skopje-Szaloniki line is quite clear, but here, Congressman Nacsa acknowledged, contrary to Congressman Fazekas, that it was not about passenger transport at all; it is about the transport of bulk goods serving Chinese interests, so that there is no guarantee that the exploitation will happen in this way. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you know this very well. You know the weight of your decision in one or two hours, you will decide the fate of HUF 1000 billion, and I cannot stress that, based on the calculation of your government, you could create 125 thousand new jobs out of this HUF 1000 billion, or more precisely this year's 140 billion. With this in mind, I would ask my fellow Members to reject this project, since this is contrary to Hungarian national interests in all its elements. Thank you.
u2020-05-19-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to make use of the opportunity to speak within the given time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr János Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-19-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Once again, we have had an exciting debate, and not only today, we have been debating this bill, because we have been conflicting arguments and arguments for many hours. Allow me to thank you here, at the end of the debate, for each of the contributions, for those that supported it and for those that did not. Allow me to make one last attempt to convince those who do not want to support this bill from the opposition benches that this is a good proposal, we are talking about a proposal and a development that Hungary needs. And allow me first to take forward the issues raised by Mr Keresztes, partly because, in his speech, the vast majority of opposition criticisms have otherwise appeared, partly because, in the last few weeks, I understand, a truly important issue for Mr Keresz is the fate of this bill. The fact is, honourable Member, that I have looked at your electoral programme, namely the 2019 European Parliament election programme, in which it seemed to be rail-friendly and I would like to support railway development. Allow me to quote a few of these points: we believe it is vital to develop Community transport; we need to standardise rail transport in Europe by 2030; we need to promote high-quality rail transport at European level; we want to shift passenger transport from aviation and road to rail within the EU. Honourable Congressman, The 2019 European Parliament election was not a success story for LMP, but perhaps you were still the party president and this programme is a pro-rail programme. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that they have been attacking a major railway development for weeks now and questioning the need for this. In particular, it is incomprehensible because we have repeatedly said in the debate that I have tried to do so several times to show that this is a European Union obligation, precisely because of the objectives that you have set out in a programme, in a strategy of your own, because of these goals, it is necessary to achieve this development. Our European Union obligation is to promote and implement the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is part of the TEN-T core network in Hungary. I do not understand that if you consider yourself to be railway-friendly, then why do you not support a development that creates opportunities for Hungary and, on the other hand, an obligation. So, honourable Member, I would ask you to return to the programme that you have set out under your leadership and to support the development of the Budapest-Belgrád line, which is also of strategic importance for the green aspects of climate policy. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to draw attention to what was also said here in the debate, but it may not be clear enough for everyone to know how important this is: this project has national political significance, and I would like to point out to Mr Keresztes that I do not understand why you are against this project, because it was you, representing the normality of opposition representatives, who conducted an active and good campaign for, for example, the success of the European Citizens' Initiative of the Székely National Council. I think you really represented the normality that we all want, and thank you for that, by the way. This is why I do not understand that a development that is important not only in terms of national policy, but also in terms of national strategy, which brings not only spiritually, but also in terms of public law, but also physically, our fellow nations living in the broken parts, because travel time is significantly reduced, we can get in touch with each other sooner, why they do not want to support this development. And let me also draw attention to what Congressman Nacsa has already pointed out that this is indeed a development that is relevant to the Central European dimension and interest, since the connection between Budapest and Belgrade on the railway is therefore reduced from today's travel time of 8-9 hours to around 3 hours. This is a significant reduction, which makes rail transport a real alternative, for example, to air transport, and which allows for even closer cooperation between the two capitals and the two countries. Honourable Members, I think I can put it this way, there have been a number of questions that I am still trying to answer quickly. On the one hand, questions were made about the price. Allow me to draw attention to the fact that this is the price of open competition. In accordance with the EU Public Procurement Directive, this has been applied for, and this is the result that we are talking about. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that the Chinese-Hungarian Railway Nonprofit Zrt., which carried out the investment, is involved. As a contracting authority, it also provided an opportunity for prior market consultation, describing the project, the main features of the procurement procedure, and the design documentation was requested and received by 32 economic operators. So this is the result of an open and real competition. I respectfully ask you to accept the outcome of this procedure. Indeed, the question of encryption has been referred to several times. Allow me to try again to convince you that there is nothing special going on. This is about Hungary and China having foreign policy and foreign policy interests, and the bill allows the Hungarian party to decide otherwise, taking into account the position of the Chinese party, that they will not use this encryption. So, honourable Member, you have repeatedly criticised this point, which is a valid and legitimate story, and we must respect the interests of other countries, including China, both in the foreign economy and in foreign policy. Let me also try to clean up the numbers. It is not that this year we would spend 140 billion forints on this development. That'll be 85 billion forints. The numbers you've told me here don't cover reality. [[12.30]] However, this money is necessary for this development, and when there are economic difficulties, it is not necessary to reduce, but to increase, increase and accelerate individual investments, because this investment will not be made on its own. This investment will create jobs, enable people to make a living and enable Hungarian people to work and do value-making work. So, by the way, if we were to increase it, it would not be a problem either, but the total cost of this project in the 2020 budget will not cost more than HUF 85 billion. I also tried to tell you the numbers in the general debate on rail kilometres. This is a double track, so the numbers you compare with each other don't cover reality and pointless comparisons. So here we are going to put down the tracks in parallel, and this section will also be equipped with modern safety equipment, as the trains will be running at high speed here. Therefore, this is not an expensive project compared to other projects, but a cheap project. This is a cheap project, so I would ask you not to attack it, but on the contrary: support this development only in terms of cost efficiency. Dear Parliament, Let me also draw attention to the fact that here the size of this project has been compared several times with the amounts spent on job creation and job protection. Allow me once again to say that this year is 85 billion forints, and Hungarian people are also getting a job from this year, so this is also a development for job creation purposes. I would also like to thank you if you acknowledge that the Hungarian Government is making significant efforts in the framework of wage support for the protection of jobs, where, by the way, we can provide real help to 100,000 workers. I hope that it will also be a successful program, which we have now announced with HUF 80 billion, and if necessary, this amount may even be increased, where new jobs can be created. But, Congressman, it doesn't work that if I spend ten times as much money to create jobs, there will be ten times more jobs, which is more complicated than that. Allow me to say, also with regard to return, that investments of the type of infrastructure and the like are not worthwhile in economic benefits only and only in terms of economic benefits. Travel times, freight transport savings, reduced environmental burden, reduced accident risks and other aspects confirm that this is indeed necessary. And indeed, if the united opposition were to pursue a responsible green policy, it would basically not attack our two major climate protection developments, Paks II and the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, because there are two cases that are particularly important from an economic point of view, because they allow cheap electricity on the one hand, and on the other hand, they represent a major break-out point for Hungary by entering a field in which Hungary has previously had less role. This is what patriotic economic policy, among other things, means: helping businesses and providing logistical support through cheap electricity. Dear Parliament, I have tried to answer all your questions once again to opposition speakers and to give them any kind of professional answer to any question that allows them to support this bill. So once again, with all due respect, I ask you that there is still time before the vote to think about it, because it is a truly important investment, which also represents the green points of view and makes a significant contribution to the protection of Hungarian jobs and the creation of new jobs. Don't say no to that today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-70	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposed amendment of certain laws in the context of market surveillance and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. The government referral is T/10096. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/10096 amendment of certain laws in the context of market surveillance. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 5 votes against and no abstentions. Dear House, With the bill before us, we intend to comply with our legal harmonisation obligation. The proposed amendment to the legislation will simplify the marketing or withdrawal of non-food unsafe products at EU level by clarifying them. As we know, market surveillance is an activity carried out by public authorities to ensure that products comply with the requirements laid down in the relevant Community harmonisation legislation and that they do not pose a risk to health, safety or any other aspect of the public interest, thereby ensuring the free movement of products meeting the requirements of the legislation. The main reason for the need for the proposed amendment is the fulfilment of the obligation to harmonise our membership of the European Union by amending the domestic legislation relating to the EU Regulation and by laying down the rules necessary for the implementation of the Regulation; this is also essential for the protection of consumers and fair businesses. Another important factor is to protect the safety of Hungarian customers more effectively by providing a clear and clear Hungarian language guide to the product they purchase. The importance of regulation is that broad-spectrum market surveillance authorities can protect Hungarian citizens even more effectively, and, thanks to their partly new and partially strengthened powers, they can act more effectively and through stronger cooperation at EU level in order to promote product safety. Among the market surveillance authorities in Hungary, the ITM, the Consumer Protection Authority under the professional control of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, as one of the most important areas of the capital and county government offices, are market surveillance of non-food products. It should also be noted that the purpose of the official and laboratory controls carried out is to exclude dangerous products from the market. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the arguments put forward, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak to his representative now or at a later stage in the debate. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he will have a total timeframe of 15 minutes. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate, as we are discussing the agenda on a time-frame. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-73	Mr President, Dear House, I am trying to seize the moment of grace, because fortunately, there is a proposal before us where I feel that there is a consensus between the government and the opposition side in the basic elements. Perhaps the low number of participants suggests that there is no serious debate or confrontation on this issue. [[12.40]] At the same time, there is a legislative harmonisation act ahead of us, which I am very pleased that the various achievements of this can break into the territory of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian market as well, and I would prefer to capacitate the government to take a position on the issues that have already been raised in the general debate, as it would be very good to see, although the proposal does not refer mainly to dangerous products of the type of food, but how the government thinks about the whole spectrum of dangerous products and goods. I very much welcome the fact that, in a way that covers the whole of the market chain, it is no longer only possible to capture the manufacturer if he brings problematic goods to the market, but also, where appropriate, the distributor, the intermediary, should meet at least the basic level of accountability. I have reservations about how this will be done in practice, even in the case of a single European regulation, because we can experience a lot of times when companies, intermediaries, in particular, are simply absorbed in terms of amounts and amounts below the infringement threshold, and often do not have to meet and deal with the substantive consequences. And consumer behaviour is typically such that the infringement threshold, in the case of amounts below the current one, is often more likely to let go of this problem. It might be a good idea and it would be worth considering a single market surveillance mechanism for such amounts that may be called microwaves from this Parliament, but at the same time they are very serious items to be taken into account in the register of some families, and there is a serious headache when, where appropriate, a product of uncertain origin, doubtful background, which can be used in a dubious way or which does not have the appropriate instructions for use is placed on the market, the consumer, and the consumer's complaint cannot often be enforced and the complaint is not dealt with. That is why I also propose to the Government of Hungary that we conclude, all right, the Hungarian language guide, and I can only welcome this; this is a long-standing deficiency, but the clause should also be enforced, which is acute and works in several European countries, in order to ensure the availability of the relevant intermediaries and distributors. There are numerous complaints of a consumer nature when a complaint is thorough, it could be investigated, a legitimate claim could be enforced, but it is quite simply not possible to reach one of them, the intermediary, the distributor through which this whole story could be enforced. We also see that the infringement threshold is set here. So when it comes to a larger amount, a larger lot, this problem is typically easier to resolve, but in the case of one, two, ten thousand forints, it is very often almost impossible. And we also need to see how I commend the government for the activities of the last few years, if we are looking at the range of dangerous goods and dangerous products in general, we have had very serious debates between 2010 and 2013 on the various problems of the trademark law. At the time, there were a lot of products that were added to the trademark, which, if reversed, was the place of origin: Puerto Rico or Nicaragua was mainly characteristic of spices, because then the trademark law did not provide for the Hungarian product to consist of at least a large part of Hungarian raw material, and it was quite simply an extenuatable plaque. Fortunately, this has changed in a positive direction, and we are waiting for similar changes in the marketing and regulation of non-food products. I do not want to go to the market of various Hungarian products and goods, how much we find Hungarian products on the market, even if there are enough Hungarian crops and how much we do not, unfortunately, in the chain of multi-company companies it is not typical, especially in large cities and in the capital, but this is not strictly the subject of the agenda. This legislative harmonisation act, which lies before us, speaks of a clearly existing problem. Hungary issued the third most of the alerts on the dangerous goods and products concerned through the RAPEX rapid alert system. I believe that a considerable number of dangerous products have been eliminated. At the same time, today's globalised market conditions suggest that there is a multiple of this left on the market, because there is simply such a mass of goods covering the entire European area that it is possible to carry out a maximum ex post check or, let's say, control. The situation is similar in the case of food and medicines, although I also believe that progress has been made with regard to the regulation of medicines. But specifically with regard to goods and goods purchased for children, I would urge caution and even try to introduce a system of sanctions on Hungary's own beard capable of causing serious market effects and, where appropriate, not just on the most alerting countries, but on the increase in the number of products withdrawn and actually dangerous. I do not see any example in recent years that there has been undue damage to Hungarian authorities or Europeans, where appropriate, to micro or small businesses, who are engaged in the import of products. With regard to notifications, if the complaint was thorough, I see that often dangerous products have been withdrawn. But it is such a market that I can only capacitate the Government of Hungary to bring much more resources here, not only to implement legislation invented abroad, but also to create a domestic, own, national regulatory environment, where it is necessary and possible to strike companies that abuse this drive of globalisation, which is more technically difficult to solve than in times of peace when, say, most of the toys of children were made in domestic space, and it was much easier to catch up with the manufacturer, the producer, the distributor who intended them for the market. In today's world, this is much more difficult, which is why our task is much more. What I would like to see from the Government of Hungary is that in the draft budget it devotes a considerable amount of money to this area than it did last year or even in the previous period. If that is the case, I am quite certain that I can support that line, if not necessarily the entire budget, on the basis of the notifications that have been made. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-05-19-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to thank you for the opinions expressed in the debate, thank you for the comments that, if I am not too biased, perhaps it can be said that it was essentially a majority of consensus and approval. So thank you for your interest and for your support. Thank you for your suggestions. And let me hold on to Dániel Z. Kárpát's comment: tomorrow you will receive tangible evidence that we are not only talking about harmonisation of laws when we are talking about consumer protection, but also an independent initiative, because tomorrow a general debate on the consumer protection law will begin, precisely so that this particular tightening up which you expect in order to protect consumers will be implemented more roundly in relation to market surveillance laws and the consumer protection law. So I'd like to thank everyone for their opinion. Compared to the general debate, new opinions, new ideas and new points have not been raised in the detailed debate. I therefore ask you to support the amendments with your vote in the vote, which will also ensure that consumers have greater security in Hungarian trade in the various products. Thank you again, Mr President, for the opportunity. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions from my fellow Members.
u2020-05-19-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. I'm taking a 14-hour break. At 2 p.m., the Parliament will continue its work with decisions. Thank you very much for your presence. (Sunning: 12.49 14.06 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. István Simicskó and Gergely Arató)
u2020-05-19-77	Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats so we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. I would ask the room-proof colleagues to check the horseshoe voting machines, so that those who do not sit there, but who are in their own seats, can also vote validly. Let me know if the transfer's okay. [[For signal:]] Now I'm asking everyone to press one of their voting machines, preferably one of the first three. Now, please press the....existence button. [[Attendance check.]] According to my monitor, there are 193 Members present, and six Members are away. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are also deciding on the adoption of legislative proposals requiring a qualified majority in today's decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the resolution rules are 50. According to paragraph 3 of Section 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote on the legislative proposals, this includes, without any further specific decision, the withdrawal of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the unaccepted regulation. In this case, voting by a simple majority shall take place on the amended text of the proposal. This has been the case before, but I think it is an important call. The Parliamentary Report of the President of the Curia on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Curia in 2018 entitled "Supporting a Legal Unit and Local Government Normal Control" follows in line with H/7915. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/7915. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 161 votes in favour, 28 against and 4 abstentions. It follows that H/8006 on the adoption of the 2018 report by the President of the National Court of Justice. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8006. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 133 votes to 62, with no abstentions. H/7916 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2018 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/7916. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 132 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/10098 on the transformation of the status of civil servants in cultural institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10098/10 and T/10098/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10098/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 61, with no abstentions. [[14.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10098/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 62, with no abstentions. T/9927 on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9927/7; T/9927/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, amendment 3 was proposed and the Dialogue Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bence Tordai and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9927/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9927/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 58, with three abstentions. It follows now that T/10096 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of market surveillance is being amended. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/10096/5 and T/10096/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/10096/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10096/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 185 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. It follows the T/9918 on the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9918/5 and T/9918/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 61 and 70, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9918/5. Points 61 and 70 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 37 against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9918/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 37 against and 23 abstentions. [[14.20]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9918/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 38 against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9918/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 37 against and 23 abstentions. It follows that T/10093 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the exchange of information within the Schengen Information System for the purposes of harmonisation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/10093/5 and T/10093/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10093/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 192 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10093/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority with 193 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10093/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 191 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. It follows that T/10309 on the amendment of individual laws to strengthen the security of citizens will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/10309/9 and T/10309/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/10309/9, the author is entitled "T/10309/9'. A separate vote was initiated on points 53, 54 and 81 in substance. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for a separate vote, and then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3, 55 and 84, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10309/9. Point 2, 3, 55 and 84 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 157 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 53, 54 and 81, which require a simple majority, in substance, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10309/9. Point 53, 54 and 81 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points asked for a separate vote in the summary amendment proposal, i.e. paragraphs 53, 54 and 81 by 157 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10309/9. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 157 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the scope of the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10309/12. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 156 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10309/12. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 156 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/9932 on the settlement of land ownership of land under land use rights and on the amendment of certain land law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[14.30]] T/9932/38. T/9932/39. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 20 and Amendment 9 by Amendment No 2, the Group of Jobbik. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 149 against and two abstentions. Amendment 20 is proposed by Mr Zoltán Magyar. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 9 is also proposed by Mr Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 129 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 5, 6, 7, 34, 36, 40, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63 and 71, decisions are taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9932/38. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 56 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9932/38. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 57 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9932/40. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 57 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9932/40. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Following is the T/10307 on support from the parliamentary group. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10307. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 162 votes in favour, 4 against and 20 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/10307. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 162 votes in favour, 4 against and 19 abstentions. We now have T/9933 on strengthening the role of churches in social and child protection benefits. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9933/5. T/9933/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 5, 7, 11, 12 and 14, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9933/5. Point 5, 7, 11, 12 and 14 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 31 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9933/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 156 votes in favour, 30 against and 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9933/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 154 votes in favour, 32 against and 8 abstentions. [[14.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9933/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 154 votes in favour, 32 against and 8 abstentions. Next up is the T/9925 on the Foundation for Sopron University, the Foundation for Sopron University and the University of Sopron. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9925/6 and T/9925/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9925/6. Point 4 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 50 against and 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9925/6. The points that require a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 52 against and 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9925/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 55 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9925/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 56 against and 6 abstentions. We now have T/9934 on the amendment of certain administrative laws and on the free allocation of assets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9934/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, the DK Group proposed that amendment No 4 be maintained and the Dialogue Group proposed that amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bernadett Szél. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 135 against and 20 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 136 against and two abstentions. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/9934/9, the national authority shall: A separate vote was initiated on points 4, 11 and 12 and 37 concerning the content of the proposed amendment. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for a separate vote; then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 9, 13 and 40, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/9934/9. Point 3, 9, 13 and 40 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 56 against and 4 abstentions. We now decide on the adoption of points 4, 11 and 12 of the substantive amendment, which require a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9934/9. Point 4, 11 and 12 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority, in substance. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote by 130 votes in favour, 56 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 37 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9934/9. Point 37 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point of the preliminary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 57 against and 4 abstentions. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9934/9. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 58 against and 4 abstentions. [[14.50]] It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9934/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 56 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9934/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 57 against and four abstentions. Next up is the Mathias Corvinus Collegium's talent program and T/10046 on support for the educational activities of the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/10046/5. T/10046/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3 and 9, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10046/5. Point 2, 3 and 9 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10046/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10046/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/10046/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 57 against and 3 abstentions. Next up is the T/9921 on the József Marek Foundation, the József Marek Foundation and the University of Veterinary Medicine. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9921/6. T/9921/7 and T/9921/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9921/6. Point 1 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 1 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 48 against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9921/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 55 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9921/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9921/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 55 against and 5 abstentions. We now come from the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation, the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation and the University of Miskolc T/9922. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9922/6. T/9922/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of the proposal, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9922/6. Point 1 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 1 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. [[15.00]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9922/6. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9922/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9922/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. Next up is the Foundation for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the Foundation for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts and the T/9923 on the asset allocation to the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9923/6 and T/9923/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9923/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes to 53, with seven abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9923/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9923/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. Next up is the T/9924 on the Foundation for the University of Neumann, the Foundation for the University of John Neumann and János University of Neumann. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Ladies and gentlemen, T/9924/7; and T/9924/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of the summarised amendment proposal, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9924/7. Point 1 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted point 1 of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 53 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9924/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 52 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9924/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9924/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. Next is the Foundation for the Széchenyi István University, the Foundation for the Széchenyi István University and the T/9926. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9926/6 and T/9926/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9926/6. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9926/8. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] [[15.10]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9926/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 6 abstentions. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education now follows. Act T/9920 amending Act T/9920 and certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9920/8. T/9920/9 and T/9920/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9920/8. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 57 against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9920/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 58 against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9920/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 57 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your help in trying very hard to restore order in this Chamber, and the pro-government Members who do not take part in the debate will try to leave the Chamber quickly. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with a debate on Commission reports and summary amendments, as well as general debates. I respectfully inform you that, in order for this debate to go smoothly, I will always inform you of our fellow Members in line for this speech, so that everyone knows when they will come and be ready to speak accordingly. Dear Parliament, Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Act CXXVII of 2012 on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the conduct of veterinary services. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/10097. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. To this end, I give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. Act CXXVII of 2012 on the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the conduct of veterinary services. T/10097. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us makes proposals for amendments to improve food chain safety and to protect society, in line with the challenges of animal epidemics, counterfeiting, productivity, quality, reduction of administration and harmonisation efforts of the European Union in the food chain. [[15.20]] Food security is a priority area in Hungary, the importance of which was recognised first by the government in the European Union. The establishment of the National Food Chain Safety Office, which is a complex sector supervisor, was an important step in protecting the food chain in 2012, and the adoption of the Food Chain Security Strategy in 2013. Article 2101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council welcomes the fact that a product is marketed in Hungary as being the same as a product marketed in another Member State, while the product marketed in another Member State differs significantly in its composition or characteristic from the food marketed in Hungary, except for legitimate and objective reasons. This misleading commercial practice has been regularly observed for years in our country, which is particularly sensitive to domestic food producers and producers, who are honestly doing their best to guarantee food safety from the farm to the consumer's table, as required by the government and consumers. In addition, the bill includes amendments to the Hungarian Veterinary Chamber and the Act on the pursuit of veterinary services. The proposal facilitates further development of the professional work of Hungarian veterinarians, making the tasks of the public body more efficient and economical, thus contributing to a higher level of protection against domestic animal protection, food safety and animal epidemics. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal on the House's table provides a number of solutions to the most common administrative administrative problems encountered in recent years, implementing or harmonising the recently adopted EU legislative act aimed at a comprehensive legal regime in this area. On the basis of the reasons already known, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask Mr Róbert Zsigó State Secretary that now [[Robert Szigó: Not now!]] Or he just wants to be in the closet. [[Robert Szigó: Yes.]] Yeah, he'll have a 15-minute window for closing. Before speaking, I would like to inform you that the designated Committee on Agriculture has not set up a rapporteur. The debate is time-framed, and the time-frame distribution is about to appear on the billboard. I would ask that it be followed up on all the speeches. I would like to inform you that since we are in a time-frame debate, there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. I'll ask who wants to speak. [[For signal:]] I am speaking to Mr Zoltán Magyar from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Obviously, I do not wish to repeat the general debate, on the one hand, because I could not, and, on the other, because there was a way to look at it thoroughly at committee meetings, both here and within the walls of this House. As I said above, we can support this legislation and I am pleased that opposition amendments have also been accepted. I think that makes the picture even more complete. I hope that, in the near future, I will not be able to report such news as a rarity, but that we will also see this constructive attitude on as many legislative proposals as possible. That's all I wanted to say, and as I said, we can support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-19-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, once again, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Robert Szigó: Yes.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
u2020-05-19-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me only two sentences; one: I thank you all here in Parliament and in committees for the work you have done. I also thank you for the improvements that we have actually accepted. My second sentence is that it also shows that food safety, including the whole food chain security, from animal protection to veterinary medicine, is really important for all of us. Thank you for the work that Parliament has done and thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-83	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions will be taken at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1995 LIII on general rules for the protection of the environment. Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/10099. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to our fellow Member Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 14 May 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 1995 LIII on the general rules for the protection of the environment. Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature T/10099. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It accepted by 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend the laws on the general rules for the protection of the environment and the laws on the protection of nature, partly because of the decision of the Constitutional Court and partly because of the experience of the application of the law. The submission shall contain the Kvt. modification of its provisions on noise maps, which is the Kvt. and achieves consistency between the Government regulation on certain rules for environmental noise and vibration protection. Thanks to this proposal, the way in which the national environmental information system is provided is renewed. The amendment also states that the National Climate Protection Authority should have access to the data of the national environmental information system in order to fulfil its tasks set out in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the law on participation in the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. The amendment made by Kvt. a new authorisation provision is added that the Government establishes a regulation on the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme and on the remediation of areas under public responsibility, as well as detailed rules on the exploitation of brownfield areas. It should be pointed out that Article 7 of the proposal states that: Paragraph 2 and Article 11 § 2 of the Act aims to improve air quality, but as an additional effect it also reduces the health risk of the population arising from air load. In addition to residential heating, combustion of avar and garden waste is also a key factor in the development of air quality. Due to the poor air quality, an infringement procedure is under way against our country. The proposed amendment is intended to improve air quality and thus protect public health. The removal of the authorisation to regulate municipal waste incineration of avar and garden waste will lead to a general ban on avar and garden waste incineration under Government Decree No 306/2010 on the protection of air, thereby reducing emissions of air pollutants in areas with high air loads. Ladies and gentlemen, As a document prepared by a scientific body of the United Nations on biodiversity reduction states that its problem is not only a natural and environmental problem, but also an economic, security, social and ethical issue, environmental and nature protection raises complex problems and requires complex solutions. [[15.30]] Dear House, From this point of view, we can also say that the draft legislation on the House's table is extremely important for the protection of the environment and of nature, as the amendments contained in the proposal provide a transparent and efficient structure. Therefore, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State, that he wishes to speak now. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Later, thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary of State, that you will have a total of 15 minutes in the debate and closing hours. I now give the floor to Mr Ferenc Koncz, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Sustainable Development held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 27 April. The Committee decided that T/10099 should be used. LIII of 1995 on general rules for the protection of the environment Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature The bill amending the law complies with the provisions of the house rules 44. § (1) of the Fundamental Law and additional legal and legislative requirements. The T/10099. Proposal LIII of 1995 on general rules for the protection of the environment. Act and Act LIII of 1996 on the Protection of Nature It contains technical and substantive amendments to the Act. Protecting and preserving our environment and nature is a prerequisite for living, human health and quality of life. Natural areas and values are an irreplaceable part of national wealth, and therefore it is our duty to protect natural heritage and biodiversity. We must treat our natural resources in a cost-effective and reasonable way, without which harmony between human activity and nature cannot be maintained. Failure can have serious consequences, endanger the health of these generations, the existence of future generations and the survival of many species. I would like to describe the two most important elements of the proposal. Thanks to this amendment, Kvt. a new empowering provision is added, according to which the Government establishes in a regulation the tasks relating to the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme and to the remediation of areas under public responsibility. Detailed rules on the exploitation of brownfield areas, including the reporting and registration of brownfield areas, are also established. A large part of the brownfield areas are not contaminated, so the development of real estate in brownfield areas which do not have harmful effects on health and the environment would help the degraded areas to reconnect into the city's blood circulation. Article 7 of the proposal is replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) and Article 11 (1) (a) Paragraph 2 of Section 2 is of particular importance from an environmental point of view, since in addition to residential heating, open burning of avar and garden waste plays a key role in the development of air quality. At present, the majority of municipalities are banning the incineration of avar and garden waste in a regulation in addition to the regular collection and transport of green waste. In many settlements, however, it is possible to continue this activity, limited in time, which is a threat to the environment. Unfortunately, open-air combustion of avar and garden waste is associated with serious air pollution, and this is one of the sources of small particle pollution, which determines local air quality. The proposed amendment aims to improve air quality, but also reduces the public's health risk from air load as an additional impact. The provision is inter alia in line with the climate and nature conservation action plan announced by the government in February and strengthens the concrete actions the government has undertaken. The Committee for Sustainable Development T/10099/2. The Commission adopted a proposal for an amendment closing a detailed debate on the subject, which contains technical and linguistic clarity and editorial clarification. Please support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-05-19-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that two-minute speeches are not possible. First of the LMP Group, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. And everyone can see the time frame for what it is.
u2020-05-19-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will not even take advantage of this short timeframe, but I would like to comment very briefly on this proposal. We have, and will continue to discuss, on many occasions, the issue of nature conservation and environmental protection, and obviously we have seen that there is a fundamental difference between us and the government side. We have said so many times, we see that over the last ten years, the government has practically dismantled the institutional system of nature conservation, and legislation has not been sufficiently effective to deal effectively with one of the most important problems in today's period. However, we can say about this bill that it is one of the rare proposals that I think Parliament will be able to vote on by consensus. We see important amendments in this proposal, we will support and support the proposal of the Legislative Committee. So you can count on the vote of the LMP fraction in this respect by the author. What is particularly important is what my fellow Members have said about the ban on avar burning, and it is clear that improving air quality is a huge challenge now, and we can underline this twice in a situation where we are faced with a global epidemic. Let us hope that the epidemic will slow down, but we may fear that this is not the last time we have to deal with it. And here with the coronal virus, it was also clear that the severity of the diseases was related to air pollution, which is why we need to take all, such steps to improve air quality. At the same time, there were thoughts here about remediation. Well, let me just mention a few problems here that there are still huge challenges. To mention only one specific case from my county, which affects several locations: the brutal soil pollution in the former plants of Budapest Chemical Works is a problem of many, many decades, so it has been known since the 1990s; governments have come, governments have gone, and to this day there is no solution to this issue. So it also shows that we are facing huge challenges, and it is time for the government to finally launch a legislative procedure and provide funding to finally address these huge problems, the problems that we have with us. It is also very important for many problems that arise at municipal level that it is a huge task, even to review the legislation, to create legislation that gives local authorities, where appropriate, the opportunity to act effectively against the polluters, because unfortunately, we can see here, in addition to my city, Pécs, that the authorities simply threw the ball at each other, and that there was no legal instrument for sufficiently determined action. So it's definitely a huge challenge. Overall, I can say, however, that this bill is positive and that the LMP fraction will support it with its vote. Thank you.
u2020-05-19-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker from the KDNP Group will be Lőrinc Nacsa, followed by Zita Gurmai and Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-90	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last time the debate on this bill came to a late night, it was one day after midnight, but I think we've had a lot of opportunities here in Parliament to talk about nature conservation and environmental issues and to talk about the protection of the created world. First, I would like to say that digitalisation efforts are very, very much to be supported. We have said this on several occasions, and I think that obviously the legal and constitutional issues are a separate technical issue, but we are very, very much in favour of digitalisation efforts. [[15.40]] Mr. LMP Team Leader! We would have agreed on almost everything, but he didn't stop the criticism of government either, so I would say that there really is a difference of perspective in our approach to green issues: what is action, you believe in words. But let's leave it at that, and let's talk about what we agree on here in this bill, because I think that improving air quality is such a matter, a national maximum, that it should happen and that we should take as many measures as possible. And, by the way, if you do not have the official terms, Mr President, then we will replace them and put in place a proposal in this regard, or if you lack some powers from some authorities to act rigorously and effectively at the same time, then, of course, this can always be replaced. But what I see is that the authority is doing its job effectively to deal with pollutants, and I think that this efficiency has improved in recent years, and, of course, there is also a need for further action, but we have seen steps in recent years that have only increased this efficiency. Improving air quality and thus banning avar combustion is a welcome step, a step forward. I think this has been preceded by the very clever and efficient development of the green waste disposal system in many settlements in recent years, and this form is available in many places. And a lot of people are using it, so you can see that the utilisation is also high. We have managed to create a system where not one or two people, not one or two households, not one or two farmers dump their green waste for transport, but a lot of people make use of it. And this is also a kind of example in different settlements, the example is sticky, and the people who take advantage of this opportunity set an example for each other. In the context of improving air quality and the epidemic, I agree with Mr Group Leader, because air quality is closely linked not only to the specific context of the epidemic, but also to the state of people's respiratory system from previous years and how much respiratory disease is involved. This can also be helped by the current bill. I would ask my fellow Members to ensure that the visible parliamentary unity does not break in this bill, that the momentum lasts until the vote and that everyone there supports it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then we will be followed by Ms Zita Gurmai; she will be followed by Mr Zoltán Magyar. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mrs Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-05-19-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the proposed amendment to the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment, it is welcomed that the Government will remedy a failure of the Constitutional Court's decision. It is a failure that has led to procedural gaps in the integration of green authorities into government offices. The findings of the Constitutional Court are, of course, eligible. It is also important to note that one of the most important elements of the right to a healthy environment is the publicity of environmental decisions. However, we cannot go without saying that the Constitutional Court set 30 June 2019 as the deadline for the elimination of the omission. This deadline has expired almost ten months ago, so it would be worth clarifying to the government how it intends to ensure that the rights granted in this proposal are respected even in the case of decisions taken in the last ten months. I'm just saying in parentheses: believe me, pensioners who are disabled would be happy to have their shortcomings corrected in the same way. We're talking domestic avar burns, obviously we agree with that. Green organisations have been pushing for this for a very long time. Since the supply of green waste has become part of the mandatory municipal public service, it is unjustified for some to smoke entire settlements. One thing is certain, there is no dispute between us that the right solution is not to have citizens smoke out their neighbors. Of course, all restrictions are only worth what they respect, and we can only hope that this provision will not remain on paper and will be accompanied by consistent State control. I definitely think it's important that this law is passed. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will support it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-19-93	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As my colleague Tibor Nunkovics said in the Commission debate, we will be able to support this draft. But it would be good if this were general, because protecting the environment cannot be a party political issue, it should never be. I just want to draw attention to a little something about the banning of avar burning, which, of course, we consider to be a step forward to put down the other foot of the story. It is a very good thing that green waste is also transported to the settlements, but this is not the quantity of an average family house that can make all this waste disappear, but the role of composting also appears, and I would like to draw the government's attention to this fact that it would be worth launching a major information campaign in this area compared to previous years. Not only on online platforms, not only in the Chamber newsletters, but even in the host shops, a free publication should be placed in the hands of each customer. In fact, even in the context of kindergarten education, it might be worth talking a little bit about this, since it is not possible to start early enough. However, we are pleased that the House will be able to adopt this legislation by consensus, and, as I have already said, we support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-96	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the debate that we have had today, I believe that there have been a number of issues and ideas that have already been raised in the general debate, which have not been violated. It is natural for such a law, in which, I might say, we almost fully agree. And we can also agree that this law is, in fact, a substantial part or perhaps a wholly unpolitical bill. And this proves that we have very important laws ahead of us, there are very important opportunities in the environment, but also in other areas, and we all feel the responsibility for how we can create and maintain an environment for our offspring that will also provide the conditions for the future life at that time. Of course, it is possible to adapt to EU legislation, to rule on the Constitutional Court and to adapt to various details in this law. And to a large extent, this law says outwards, for everyday life, that it is the law on avar burning. This is much more than that, I would like to stress. It is true that for today's citizens, who have gardens and gardens, it is an important question how they can make this avar disappear, forgive the expression, because that is a significant part of the story. In this respect, let us be honest, it will be a very serious task for those companies, public utility providers, to ensure the removal of this avar, agricultural or garden by-products from the garden zones. I see some doubt in this, however, about how a business can resolve this issue. Based on personal experience, it may not be a good thing that the amount of grass in a plastic bag along the road rots for weeks, which is quite rapidly created during this period. That is why I consider it important to settle this issue with this law. Different issues of air purity have been discussed. It is clear to all of us that not only avar burning, but also, in other respects, the purity of the air is important in all of our lives, in our safety and in our health. Thank you very much for the support of the parties, for your comments, for the Commission's work, for what has been said in the general debate and for what has been said today. I hope that you will be able to support this law in practice, in Hungarian, when voting in two weeks' time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-97	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. [[15.50]] We now have the Commission's reports on the publication of the climate crisis and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The submission submitted by Bence Tordai, Member Sándor Burány, Head of Group Szabó Timea, Member Tamás Mellár and Representative Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representatives of the Dialogue T/7021. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed T/7021 on the announcement of the climate crisis. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by the committee by 23 votes in favour, 10 against and without abstentions, pursuant to Article 46 of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Parliament, Climate change and extreme weather phenomena that are becoming more frequent and more intense are among the most important challenges today. Their prevention, mitigation and adaptation require effective and feasible interventions. Our common goal is to protect our environmental heritage, to preserve the results achieved by the collective efforts of generations, and to ensure that the Hungarian nation remains in the Carpathian Basin. The increase in climate change and extreme weather conditions is evident around the world. The natural, economic and social effects they have caused are affecting more and more people. To this end, the average temperature on our planet is 0.85 degrees Celsius higher than the 19th century. At the end of the century. Each of the last three decades has been warmer than any previous decade since the beginning of the temperature record, i.e. 1850. According to the world's leading climate researchers, it is almost certain that XX. Human activity is the main cause of warming that has been observed since the middle of the century. So not only is the temperature of the Earth increasing because of natural causes and internal fluctuations, the climate changes not only because of these circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal we are discussing now confirms the importance of protecting the created world, the environment and combating the adverse effects of climate change, as well as empowering the government to implement short, medium and long-term climate protection and climate adaptation measures. It is important to mention where we are now. Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where gross domestic product has grown since 1990 while CO2 emissions and energy consumption have also decreased. Another data in Hungary: 74 percent of the greenhouse gases emitted came from economic activity in 2013 and the rest came into the atmosphere during household emissions, mainly with heating and car use. Dear Parliament, With everything in mind, we have four aspects to bear in mind in our work. The first is that climate-neutral economy costs must be paid in the first place by climate-destructives, i.e. with large polluting countries and large companies. Secondly, this policy must be implemented in such a way that the prices of energy and food paid by families do not increase. Thirdly, it is not necessary to take money from poorer countries, i.e. it is not acceptable for the European Union to transfer funds from cohesion funds to climate protection in its next budget. The fourth is that it must be said openly: without nuclear power, a climate-neutral economy cannot be built. Dear House, Hungary has a stable legislative and strategic framework that allows us to take effective action to prepare for climate change, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve the objectives set out in national strategic documents. I therefore consider the proposed bill to be supported. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Bence Tordai, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I must inform you, Mr President, that the time frame that you can use to speak in the debate and to say in the closing words is 15 minutes. And from here, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Citizens, This is an interesting moment because I have listened with great agreement to the words of my pro-government fellow Member, but the sad fact is that the actions behind the beautiful words are no longer so beautiful. So if we look at the fate, the history of this bill, we should see that, since last summer's submission, it has been fundamentally altered in its title, content, including its target system and its instruments, by the pro-government factions. While, of course, we agree that climate change, the climate crisis, the ecological crisis are one of the most important challenges facing all mankind and so obviously Hungary, we see that the action, the package of measures that are intended to address it, is not enough to reach the path to climate-neutral economic and social functioning. The original concept of the law would have looked like we were going to announce the climate crisis and oblige the government to draw up a very detailed climate protection law. We have set the deadline for this, we have also set the deadline for the adoption of the related regulations; and we have set out the objectives that this Climate Protection Act should have served, and the 14-area instrumental system that could have been used to achieve the objectives set out above. Compared to this, the governing parties said that they did not want to speak, but to act, and they quickly adopted this law as climate protection laws. But for your information, a serious climate protection law doesn't look like that. The text now sanctioned by the Legislative Committee in its final form is about two and a half pages. A serious climate law in a serious country where responsible policy makers operate is hundreds of pages, because only the regulatory areas that we have identified as being amended are regulated by dozens of laws, so they should have at least been affected or affected by a real climate law, a climate law that can be the legal basis for responsible action. If we look at the specific objectives of the original proposal, we can see that for the four specific purposes three of the pro-government amendments have been removed from the text, the objective of climate neutrality for 2050 remains alone, but unfortunately all numbers have either been softened or simply missed in terms of the 2030 targets, which are to be achieved within a tangible time frame. So in particular, we proposed that the law state that Hungary will reduce its energy use by at least 30 percent by 2030. Compared to this, the pro-government version says that if energy consumption increases, it must be covered from climate neutral sources, this is very, very different. We said that at least 35 percent of this energy use should be covered by renewable energy sources. In the pro-government version, this fell from 35 percent to 21 percent. We said that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by at least 55 percent. According to pro-government, that's enough to show a 40 percent drop compared to 1990. So the goals in this version of the law, now called climate protection, are painfully discouraged. And the situation is similar in the area of the measures to be taken. 10 out of these 14 programmes were thrown out in the course of the amendments; for example, the closure of lignite and coal plants in Hungary by 2025 at the latest, taking into account, of course, the social and labour aspects. The abolition of measures limiting the use of wind energy has also been excluded from the text. [[16.00]] The VAT reduction of solar panels and solar systems is also missing. Most importantly, our greenhouse gas emissions are the largest item, the complex energy renovation programme of the Hungarian very outdated housing stock, and the state support for this, which could be hundreds of billions forints a year, and money would be available from EU funds if it weren't for buddy companies. This would perhaps be the most important thing for Hungarian people, Hungarian families, and this was also exiled. There will be no green bank, there will be no green public procurement system, there will be no taxes to support climate protection, be it the coal tax, be it the kerosene tax or something else, the polluters will pay! The changes in the tax system which constitute the actual implementation of the principle. We have been thrown out to launch social policy programmes that reflect climate justice, as all major social changes always affect the most vulnerable, vulnerable groups with the most negative impact. This needs to be compensated or compensated. The complex, many public policy programmes of climate adaptation were also removed from the instrument system, and perhaps the most important institutional pillar of the whole would be to restore the very advanced environmental institution system that was given in 2010. From the independent Ministry of Environment, through the independent green ombudsman, the powers of environmental and nature protection authorities, if you think about it, there are a lot of areas where the last ten years have led to massive withdrawal and reduction. This Climate Protection Act recommended that we strengthen them again. It is very regrettable that amendments have been included in addition to the deletion of important content, which are also unsuitable in terms of green policy, the policy responsible for the future. One of these, which is a concrete statement of fact, I do not understand how it should be, how it can be put into law in Hungary, that nuclear energy would be carbon neutral. If we look at the carbon footprint of any nuclear power plant, we find that this carbon footprint is almost at the level of gas, so fossil power plants, there is very serious CO2 emissions from the construction and operation of these power plants, even if their fuel is not fossil. The other serious problem, which has been included in the text, is a reference to the created world. And this is not a personal worldview issue, because everyone has the right to confess their personal convictions even here, within the walls of Parliament. If anyone believes that the world is created by a higher being, it is the right of their heart, but the Fundamental Law, the one-party law you accept, or if KDNP is a party, then the two-party Fundamental Law says that the state is not entitled to decide on scientific truth. And it's a fact-proven scientific truth about how the world came about, so it's highly problematic to record the opposite in the text of the law, but these are little things. These are little things, and the point is that Fidesz-KDNP wants to get away with this whole issue with some somaticism and some positive statistics. The success of the opposition, the success of the green parties, the success of green politics in Hungary, that the governing parties can no longer simply escape such a bill, they cannot escape it, they cannot sweep it off the table. So now they've chosen another way, they've completely reversed its contents, and they've left behind rather than a progressive, truly future-friendly, responsible public policy package, a completely sloppy, empty little piece of legislation. But it is not surprising, in fact, because if we look at the four aspects that you are following, which my fellow Member has just once again quoted, how well they are founded and how effective they are in practice, then we can see why the Fidesz Climate Protection Act has succeeded in such a way. There were four points. First of all, we have to get the cost paid by climate damagers. Very good, that sounds good, and we have been saying for decades now in the green movement and in the green policy that the polluter pays principle must be enforced, but when we put it in a law to make coal tax, kerosene tax, and any further changes to the tax system that actually enforce the principle of the polluter pays, it is deleted from the law or the bill with a massive move. Then the next one says not to increase the price of energy and food for families. This is a very good, people-friendly approach. Not only does the price not have to rise, it is much more important that the amount of the overhead does not increase, and the amount of the overhead depends on the amount consumed and the price. So you, who have spent about four to five years trying to get votes with the policy of reducing the rent, might realize that if there is less consumption, there is less overhead bills, and not just the price that is decisive at this time. We would very much like it to be included in the text of the bill in order to reduce energy consumption everywhere in Hungary, and, of course, to support families to live in homes with lower energy consumption. This is what your deleted proposal would have been about in the section on state aid for complex energy efficiency renovation of housing and households, but it seems that action is once again in conflict with words, and from then on the credibility of their entire policy and green policy is questionable. They're bringing in a very specific deal, and I'm not saying bazaar bargaining, because it's a completely legitimate debate, which means how the European Union's budget should look. Of course, we support not taking funds from Hungary, of course we support the European Union's support for investments and developments in Hungary, which benefit Hungarian people, Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. Another issue is that over the last ten years, most of the EU funds have been channeled by you and used with questionable efficiency, so that I do not say that the public funds thrown together by EU taxpayers have been stolen. This is also a good example when we said that yes, energy efficiency and public support, supported by the EU, should be allocated. Instead, what did they do? The heavily overpriced investments of friendly businesses, the circle of friends of János Lázár, and various state institutions were financed from these funds. With a long struggle, we managed to fight this out. The last point you have here, as a starting point, is that without nuclear power, there would be no climate neutral economy, which is once again factually false. On the one hand, we see countries that are much ahead of the transition to climate-neutral economic and social operation and do not use nuclear energy, but more importantly, for Hungary, Benedek Jávor, in cooperation with various experts, has developed a study entitled "The Green Hungary Energy Roadmap" which shows how to switch to a completely climate-neutral and nuclear-free solution in our energy mix by 2050. So if you think there's no solution, you just don't have enough experts, or you don't have the courage to let go of your fantasy. I suggest you turn to more skilled politicians and experts. Benedek Jávor and Dialogue are also available in this area. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So there are very serious problems with the bill you've been rewriting. It's a big dilemma what a responsible politician does at a time like this. I personally see that it is a step forward, however, if Hungary joins a series of countries that have a climate law, a law on climate protection, even if this law is very small in its present form and what it contains cannot be partly undertaken. So we cannot support the amendments and the final bill as a rapporteur, but ultimately we should be glad that we have managed to bring a climate protection law through, or we will be able to bring it to the final vote. So what's good about this law is its existence, and that's the success of the Dialogue and the other opposition parties. And what is shameful is its content, and that is the shame of the governing parties. So with this closing thought, I would like to thank you for your attention, and I would suggest that you vote, in your conscience, in two weeks' time. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2020-05-19-101	Good afternoon. Welcome. We'll get back to work. I would like to inform the rapporteur, Mr Tordai, that if he still wants to close, he has 30 seconds left. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Many!]] Honourable Parliament! Now I'm going to ask the government representative, Mr. Secretary Kaderjak, if you'd like to speak to me now or later. [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: End of debate.]] Yeah, at the end of the debate. We're moving on. Dear Parliament, Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur for the Committee on Sustainable Development appointed. :) Here you go. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] The problem is, it's nothing, because it's your turn. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Not him! The other one!]] Oh, please, this is absolutely excellent, and I felt a little strange that the independent Member would be given such a pro-government privilege. I'm sorry, but you're facing me. Here you go, Congressman, Congressman Benchik.
u2020-05-19-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Sustainable Development held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 27 April. The committee concluded that the bill complied with the house rules 44. § (1) of the Fundamental Law and additional legal and legislative requirements. It is noted that the protection of our living environment and the created world is in the interest and responsibility of all of us, since we all want clean water, quality food, good air and bearable climate. How our common future is going to be determined by today's decisions. Climate change is a natural process, but its speed is significantly influenced by the lifestyle of human communities. The process has accelerated, to which we must adapt, and we must work to ensure that the changed circumstances can be the winner of our country. In the case of climate protection, therefore, we need real action, not empty words. Our Fundamental Law clearly states that the natural values of the Carpathian Basin must be protected, and that by the careful use of our natural resources we will also protect the living conditions of the generations to come. The government also demonstrates its commitment by actions and is committed to protecting our natural heritage, the natural conditions of the way of life that we Hungarians have developed together in this country. The Hungarian climate and energy strategy is based on the fact that the vast majority of domestic electricity generation must be ensured in a carbon neutral way, through the use of nuclear energy and renewable energy, in particular solar energy. In the latter case, mainly from solar power plants, resulting in a six-fold increase in Hungary's photovoltaic capacity in the next decade. With the combined use of solar and nuclear power, by 2030, 90 percent of Hungarian electricity generation will be carbon-free. A green state bond will be introduced to finance improvements to mitigate climate change and improve adaptation conditions. Since 1990, gross domestic product has grown in Hungary while CO2 emissions and energy consumption have also decreased. Today, in our country, CO2 emissions per capita are 40 percent lower than climate and environmental protection in Germany. It is important for us to bear a proportionate burden that each country contributes to a common solution to the problem, taking into account the damage it causes. We consider it important to fulfil international obligations, but the fulfilment of international obligations must always be carried out in accordance with national interest. For this reason, the Committee on Sustainable Development is the Committee on T/7021/6. The Commission's proposal to close the in-depth debate was adopted with a view to achieving a harmonious balance within the framework of proportionate burden-sharing, national interest and international obligations. Hungary can undertake as much as it serves its interests, while also fulfilling international obligations, without prejudice to them. But, to our own detriment, we cannot take a decision that together does not serve the implementation of the natural, social and economic sustainability framework, in addition to the implementation of more moderate climate protection strategies in other countries. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, we respectfully propose that the legislative proposal be supported in addition to the Commission's amendments, which have been incorporated and recorded by the Legislative Committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-19-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck presented the Committee's minority opinion, a representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As a minority opinion from the Committee on Sustainable Development, I would like to emphasise that it is very regrettable that the Fidesz faction has submitted such amendments to this bill. As a result of these amendments, Hungary will once again not have a Climate Law. Perhaps some remember that for the first time in 2009 there was a proposal in Hungary on the initiative of civil society organisations to have Hungary's climate law. That climate bill also passed at the last minute, and Parliament did not vote for it. This proposal, therefore, was aimed at ensuring that Hungary has a climate law. Moreover, this is also included in the joint opposition climate crisis decision proposal to have a climate law. We know that many European countries already have climate laws, and the European Commission has also started working to have the European Union. We think that we need climate law, because we saw a strategy that is easier to lay in a drawer in different areas of life than a law. After all, a law would use the power of law to define goals, tools, and perhaps allocate resources to accomplish the tasks. With the amendments tabled, the first type of problem is that it greatly weakens the objectives set out in the original proposal. First of all, it's the 40 percent reduction in CO2, which is the reason why we're not the biggest polluters. In practice, the amendment aims at only 40 percent of Hungary's share in 2030. We know that in recent days, 17 environmental ministers signed a letter asking these ministers to set a reduction target of 50-55 per cent by 2030. This would also be important for Hungary. It is not possible to point to anything else, to be a stowaway so that others can do it, and we can't, when Hungary's fundamental interest is also to start more stringent objectives and adaptation tasks. The 21 per cent target for renewable energy is also low and insufficient by the end of 2030. We know that the European Union is thinking at 30 percent. It is also unacceptable that what is listed here in the dialogue bill, what aspects should be taken into account in the preparation of the Climate Law, is in fact largely excluded by the Fidesz amendment proposal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also very important for climate issues to have climate justice and social awareness-forming campaigns. Since I've passed 3 minutes, and there's three minutes of minority opinion available, I'm gonna finish this right here. I respectfully ask that the Parliament do not support the TAB's amendment package. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-105	Thank you very much. Sometimes a man is exposed to tolerance, because no one would have noticed if the congresswoman hadn't told him that I had allowed him to finish giving his opinion. Okay. Representatives will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. However, the speakers responded in advance, first of all, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP. Here you go. [[16.20]]
u2020-05-19-106	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The corona virus epidemic and the economic crisis that has arisen are warnings that we cannot ignore. It's a warning that there are things that need to be taken seriously. A few months ago, no one thought a virus would cause a global disaster. The same is true of climate change. Unfortunately, there are still many today, including Hungarian pro-government representatives, who believe that climate change is something that needs to be less cared for. The reality is that the effects of climate change will become so strong in 10-15 years that it will radically upset our daily lives. And it's not just gonna take a few months, but if we don't act now, it's gonna take forever. If we do not do everything in the next ten years to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other environmentally harmful economic activities, then our entire civilization could be put at risk. For this reason, it is clear to the MSZP that any proposals to maintain a viable environment must be supported. Of course, it is very difficult to argue that we know that many on the right do not necessarily know what the climate crisis is. I am therefore trying to put it this way that everyone understands that this is a very serious issue. People will die because of the heat, because society is ageing, and older people are more sensitive to the devastating effects of heat. This means that by 2050, additional mortality in individual regions could reach 166 percent. Yeah, you heard me, 166 percent more people are gonna die. Health care isn't ready for this. Agricultural production will fall because of drought. Perhaps it is clear from this point that the term climate disaster is not an exaggeration at all. And I hadn't even told you about the social effects. There'll be a lot of people who won't be able to defend themselves against the heat. We are at the last minute, fellow Members. The announcement of the climate crisis is not yet the solution, but only the chance to avoid the worst. The climate crisis is not about sirens, it is about concrete measures, measures to curb harmful processes that have already started and give us a chance to preserve the living environment. I would ask you to reconsider, accordingly, to include a number of points in the proposal. Let's not just wake up when we're being tortured by the heat alarm, and it's gonna take weeks. I would ask you to vote for it, because we are facing far more serious and lasting consequences than the current epidemic situation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-19-107	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-108	Mr President, Dear House, The opposition representative feels a little strange, because we are used to something else, my fellow Members. We're used to coming up with sensible improvements to opposition proposals, these are subjective proposals, Fidesz-KDNP tells us that it's bullshit, sweeps it off the table, plagiarizes all of this, best case it's submitted under its own name, true, a little grounded, then voted by a two-thirds majority, and the opposition may still have a moral victory or a sense of superiority that you might feel at home at night behind your desk or behind your laptop screen, but not in public. That's not the case right now. A proposal came in, and the Fidesz-KDNP saw that it couldn't destroy it, take it away, take it away from it. So what did you do? He ruined it. He looted, selected, selected from it areas with which he couldn't or didn't want to do anything more precisely, and left a torso, left a political Frankenstein that we talked about many times in the last few years, but in the way of such a pure veterinary horse we haven't seen very much. Now we have this political Frankenstein, this torso. There is something left in it; of course, this could be debateable, there are certain eligible points and there are less eligible. But I've been a little irritated by the pro-government leadership and the justification. Not because the words said might not have been true or had bad intentions behind them, but because the approach is confusing and misleading. For example, in relation to Hungarian CO2 emissions, when compared with Germany, or even with the period of method change, around 1990. Well, fellow Members, do not deny the most important piece of reality: in Hungary, emissions have decreased for one orphan reason compared to 1990, because you have been able to let down and destroy almost the largest units of Hungarian production capacity. And, yes, those on government and opposition over the last thirty years, I am sure that in different proportions and this could again be a separate debate, but they were involved in this party, they left the layoffs, spontaneous privatisation, they made tomatoes for multinationals, and since 2010, my fellow Members, not just before. In the period 1998-2002, perhaps, I say that we can talk about a fair era from an economic policy point of view, for me, the movements at that time were the most sympathetic in this area. But aside from that one short period of time, with your mistakes, I can't find anything that won't go into a real history book as a synonym for economic self-destruction. Therefore, you cannot be proud of the reduction in emissions caused by the reduction of production capacity alone in this House, so you will not receive a certificate. And in Germany, I am happy or less happy to report, but we can talk about a functioning industry, and not only about the various assembly plants of multinational or foreign companies. But speaking of which, I absolutely agree with my pro-government colleague, who mentioned that the involvement of large companies in public burdens should also be promoted in this area. I totally agree with that. That is why I am disappointed by what we are going to say more deeply in a debate tomorrow about special economic zones, about a multi-company coming, polluting, doing things that should not be allowed in the Hungarian market and in the national economy. The government of Hungary would take away the control of the local government and would give part of this to the majority of county management, but this control will actually cease. In the case of Göd, we see that the investor makes multi-scale investments in environmental pollution, cutting forests, taking the fence of the plant up to the edge of the residential area in such a way that there will be no retail resistance on this issue. And that it does not remain, thanks to the movements of the Government of Hungary, and here we ask for a very, very thick quotation mark in the minutes. And we must say that, as long as these phenomena persist, and as long as the multi-company Canaan and its tomatoes may exist in Hungary, it is very difficult for us to talk about what, in addition to the declaration of the climate crisis, is at all what the Government of Hungary is determined to do. What I regard as treason, and I cannot forgive you, I really do not know, is the sabotage of the energy efficiency programmes of the residential segment. There is no finer word for this, fellow Members. They would have had ten years, and EU funds are available. What did they do? As regards public institutions, these funds were started to be used, so they touched EU money and used it to modernise public institutions in the energy field. There was a legal, political, economic opportunity to open this register to the retail segment, but you didn't do it, you didn't want to do it. This is certainly more than self-destruction from a national strategy point of view, so it is safe to treat it as a betrayal, because the fate of Hungarian people depends on it, there is also a demographic dimension, and the emigration spiral has some effect on the development of a housing cataclysm and a vortex of poverty in Hungary. [[16.30]] It's a lot of component issues. The energy efficiency and modernisation part is only one of them, but obviously you too have noticed the problem, because when you wanted to expand the CSOK's discount system for enlargement after a while, you could sense the amazing problem that many young Hungarians cannot start a family because they simply have no place to start. And we also see that part of the Hungarian utility bills, part of the register of Hungarian families, literally smokes away within a very inefficient, backward, backward system, where we should touch them from district heating to simple home upgrades to a lot of things, but we have come to the conclusion that this government has affected in recent years despite these processes. Let me give you an example of life that you simply don't understand in this House. In the case of condominiums, how did a typical boiler change take place, say, ten years ago, two or three years ago? Typically, this house collected and collected from the common cost and other payments, say, a Fundamenta account, because there was also a state aid leg to it, so this amount was collected much faster, and when the money was collected, they were able to make a boiler exchange. What did the Government of Hungary do? He also took away the state leg of housing savings from young Hungarians, but he did not think about the people living in the Hungarian condominium, and he took this opportunity away from them without suggesting anything instead. Perhaps my fellow Members confirm that the CSOK does not provide room for a boiler change for a condominium or community. They may also agree with me that family tax incentives or large family car purchases do not offer such an opportunity. So my problem with this behavior is that typical Hungarian life situations are forgotten from your dimension. I do not mind at all that families from the upper middle class may be supported more than others, although I am a little bit upset, but I do not feel sorry for them for their support, but I would also like to reach the same high level for the others. What I regret, however, is that typical Hungarian living situations are missed, the residential segment is left out, the people living in the condominium are left out of energy efficiency programmes; in fact, the whole of the residential sector has simply been forgotten, using very non-Hungarian terms. If that is not the case, you will deny it, my fellow Member, but the fact is that, starting with the CSOK, through the system of family tax incentives, most of the discount mass comes up from the upper middle class and I say again, I am not sorry about them. But you also have to see that the demographic background goal, which the Government of Hungary has rightly defined, and I support it in its aims, believe me, it just didn't work out, it didn't work out. I felt shame when I read András Bencsik's editorial in the Democratic Republic, or Secretary of State Katalin Novák's analysis of demographic indicators, because unfortunately, we have made every indicator worse. What did they do? Instead of a clear confession to live, two months out of 12 were taken, when, fortunately, the data series on live births improved, and in other months, these two were extended to an entire year, and András Bencsik wrote in the Democratic Republic that Hungary had joined the ranks of growing nations in addition to the loss of small towns every year. It is a truly amazing fake reality, a typical Bolshevik type of forgery that took place on this subject, while we would also help you, and all well-sensed Hungarian people would help us to face the problem honestly. But unfortunately, the number of live births is constantly decreasing, and the fertility rate after a small rise is again closer to the level of 1.40 than the level of 1.50, and we also see that the number of deaths does not show an evolving path, although progress in this area should not and I do not think can be discussed. We see that there is a need for a genuine confrontation, and to find out that these social processes are influenced by the circumstances under which a Hungarian family can start a family, how it can plan its life, how it can expand it, and along these very far-reaching themes, it would be very important not to castrate the opposition proposals dealing with it, at least to maintain the space of debate and discussion on these issues of national strategic importance. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-05-19-109	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2020-05-19-110	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Gurmai has made a lot of progress on the subject, she has spoken about something other than what is allowed in the framework of the bill, so I would not respond to it now, but rather, for the record, I would like to state that Congressman Bence Tordai does not support his own proposal, he does not vote in favour of his own proposal. We can remember the accusations you have made in recent years when you said that in a democratic parliament, the parties of government should accept the amendments of the opposition, and if we accept the amendments of the opposition, it is a truly great democracy. Well, it's clear now that if there's a pro-government amendment and it's accepted, then suddenly it's all wrong, but it's not good for you to adopt amendments to a law, because I'm not so happy with the law you've tabled. I find it a little ambiguous and false that when it comes to your amendment, it is an excellent idea and the basis for democracy to accept your amendments, but when our amendments appear in a bill, it deserves sudden emptying, alkalinating and such words. So you are not in favour of your own proposal, which has been improved by amending proposals. Let's just say for everyone's sake, Bence Tordai said a few weeks ago that this bill is very important, and now he's saying he's not going to vote that simple. But let's keep going. Congressman Torda said that a proper climate protection law must be at least a hundred pages, compared to what he submitted, that was three pages. So, technically, the dialogue that's associated with you as a green party can't even write a proper climate protection bill, because he thinks the measure is that there should be a hundred pages. We have managed to put three pages on the table, honourable Member. As in the climate change strategy, you have failed to make proposals that could have been taken seriously, just as they did not come to the debate day you organised. So we can see that this is extremely important for you in words, that you can scold the government at an online press conference, and that gives you great pleasure. But now is the opportunity to vote in favour of their own proposal, because Bence Tordai, who will not vote in favour of this proposal, does not agree that it is important to protect the created world, to protect the environment and to protect against the adverse effects of climate change, because it is included. It therefore does not agree that the government should draw up a strategy for short, medium and long-term climate and climate adaptation measures and implement the measures. Compared to this, you do not agree that the "polluting pays" principle has been included, as you said that you lack it, but you are included in it, read: national climate policy must be based on the principle of the "polluting pays" and on the logic of proportionate and realistic interventions. So you don't agree that the polluter should pay. You do not agree that we have to meet all the challenges facing us in terms of the domestic environment, society and economy. You do not agree that we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. You also do not agree that Hungary will achieve a share of at least 21 per cent of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2030. He doesn't agree with total climate neutrality by 2050. These are all included in this proposal from you on the table. So if someone reads through this and it's not that long, you can read through it, then everyone can see what Bence Tordai disagrees with. Then you will be called green a little bit, or at least you will not be honest, poison green or watermelon, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly said. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So, then, the Member disagrees with these, and we have clarified this for the sake of the minutes, so that this can also be sought in future debates. As far as my fellow Member Mr Z. Carpathian is concerned, I think that the government made the right choice when EU funds, on which energy efficiency tenders could be put out, first started with the largest consumers, which are public institutions. In a school, in a hospital, in a social home there is much more consumption [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There's nothing wrong with that.]] , so much greater savings can be achieved by investing in energy efficiency, so much more results can be achieved, much better reductions in emissions, much better reductions in the costs of the overhead and thus unnecessary waste of energy. So I think it was right that this was the first step. However, it is not true that there were no residential programs, and I would like to refuse because you categorically claimed that there was no such thing. Ex-Home heat program, former boiler exchange program, ex-cooler exchange program, ex-coastal insulation program, former solar battery contest. Several programmes have been announced in recent years for which condominiums or individuals have been allowed to apply, both the budgetary bodies and companies have been explicitly excluded from this tender, and condominiums or individuals have been allowed to apply for these applications. I also think it is important that these programmes continue in the next EU budget cycle and, if necessary, complement them with national funds. But to claim that it wasn't, I don't think it's true, and I'm asking you not to make such allegations here in Parliament, because that's categorically not true. I hope that you will find that your bill is worth supporting, I hope that you will read it again, and you will realize that in the objectives that you have set out there, which you have partially formulated, partly with the amendments tabled by the committee, or the committee has accepted the amendments to the bill, they are important objectives, common goals, and it would be good for you to share these common objectives. We will implement the climate protection action plan without you, and we will take the steps we need to take to eliminate illegal landfills, to eliminate pollution of rivers, which is necessary for the introduction of green government bonds, which is necessary for carbon neutrality. We will take these steps, and it would be better without you. I am asking you to vote in favour of your proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.40]]
u2020-05-19-111	Congressman István Simicskó, notary of the Parliament, KDNP, please.
u2020-05-19-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to approach the bill before us from another aspect: on the one hand, its name. Previously, the climate crisis has arisen, and I remember the days when perhaps the Mayor announced the climate crisis in the capital city. Allow me to say, as a lawyer, that it is very important that we use term technicians and legal terms, because this is also our responsibility in some respects. The Emergency, we all remember, on RTL television, was a series, it was a very good series, by the way. [[Defiance.]] But maybe that's not what we need to find out what kind of legal term we're using. By the way, the air conditioner is much better suited to the title of the bill, and it is much more expressive of what all responsible people and everyone in their own home should do. We know that we all know that the name of the earlier periods of qualification was still in the old constitution, and now the special rule of law in the new Fundamental Law states and applies six of these facts, and obviously the detailed rules of these rules are governed by fundamental laws as to who is in charge and jurisdiction. These six special legal conditions are listed as a state of emergency, which is the state of war itself; the state of emergency, a series of internal acts aimed at overthrowing the constitutional order; the emergency, which we are now part of, since it has been announced, has been adopted and extended by the Parliament in the context of the pandemic, and we can see how important this expansion of space was for the government, for the executive power; the preventive defence situation, which entered into the Constitution in 2004, because the Parliament ended the general military commitment, and it would therefore have a 60-day period for Parliament to restore, restore, restore, and, if necessary, if the international situation continues to increase, this could be said to be the predecessor of the war in 2004; the case of an unexpected attack, which was entered into the Constitution at the time of the Yugoslavia crisis and during wars, so that the government could also put the necessary protection measures to guarantee the security and security of those living on the border; and, if the international situation continues, this could be said, in the case of terrorism, in the first instance of a major crisis; It is a very interesting question, by the way, to parallel freedoms with these special legal situations, so how long and how fundamental rights and freedoms can be restricted is a separate legal issue. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that there are very broad, uniquely wide-ranging Hungarian special rules of law, and there are six special legal conditions. Looking at international examples, I have seen three or four specific legal situations or qualified periods in the basic laws and constitutions of the various countries, NATO countries, EU Member States, so I am not sure that further enlargement of this would be justified. It is certainly worth thinking about, and if the Good God can help us, and the government can go through with the measures I see that, thanks to God, we are coming out of this crisis, this emergency, and we are able to contain the coronal virus epidemic, there is certainly serious results in Hungary, the package that the government has adopted at the time is exemplary; the people, indeed, we are not convinced to say, thank you for implementing it and accepting it, and everyone who serves our community in this way, will be honoured, if this passes away, I think it is worth thinking about what crises may arise, what dangers arise. I mean, it's XX. On the basis of our view of the century, we are still at a point of view that we can say, yes, XX. In the first century, the crisis situation and the state of peace, quiet everyday life and peace in the classic sense were clearly visible and sharply separated. Looks like the 21st. The century has changed this, the world has accelerated at such a level and there are so fast different problems: climate change, extreme weather and so much more. Well, look who thought of a coronal virus epidemic, the Spanish flu in 1918 may have caused a similar problem, but it was another humanity then, with other technical means, other types of accompaniment and defense systems. It is certainly worth including this and considering how to make Hungary's defence system as complex as possible, how to respond to everything, if not everything, but many, many things more effectively than human knowledge. And, of course, climate change and climate protection are also a global issue, but it is certainly worth taking the necessary steps in your own home. The bill before us gives us sufficient guarantees and answers, and I believe that we will return to it during the autumn session, on the basis of the experience that we already have, and the international examples that will be gathered in the coming months, on what possible changes will be worth applying in our legislation, and on how, for example, to change and transform the specific legal situation as widely as possible, or even in a narrower way, in any case using experience. I don't know if this moment will come, but perhaps it is worth mentioning here in the context of the debate on climate protection. So thank you very much for listening, thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Bence of Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to the fact that you are speaking as a representative of the Dialogue. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-114	Thank you, Mr. President. Thanks to the comments of my fellow opposition Members and the interesting discussion of our fellow Member Simicskó, I would like to respond briefly to the speech by Mr Nacsa Lőrinc. [[Defiance. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who would have thought?!]] I'd like to start with some assumptions. I have to think that he can't be that difficult. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] 'Cause maybe even at KDNP, he couldn't have gone that far. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] However, I must say that this was a weak provocation, and from now on I can only interpret his speech in the genre of stand-up comedy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was good for him!]] At the same time, trying to get the debate back to seriousness, I will try to explain to you, with the patience of a medical educator, what democracy is about, for example, what a climate bill is about or what a voting attitude is about. So, dear fellow Member Nacsa, it is not anti-democratic that if we do not vote for all the amendments, say, it refers to a rather anti-democratic attitude on the part of the governing parties that virtually no opposition amendment is ever supported, and that we will not automatically be democrats, if we are random, regardless of its content, to all the amendments. In fact, I would add that not only for pro-government but also for opposition amendments, it is certainly true that the bill will not be better by every amendment, but in this case, it is certain that this amendment has completely ruined the meaning of the bill and destroyed its objectives. The length of the whole, the length of the text of the law: I, I said that it was originally only about the announcement of the climate crisis and about the outlines of a future, serious, large-scale climate protection law, which is why it was called "The Announcement of the Climate Emergency." In this case, it is very well that we have created a short, concise text to the point. But it's not okay to think that with a two-and-a-half-page text, the entire climate protection package can be covered, you haven't even tried, but at least don't pretend that that was the assumption. The opposition obviously doesn't have any tools, no ministry apparatus, and so on; we could write that if we could say that you would accept that if we knew that you would carry it out, then, I promise you, after a written guarantee, we would very much like to draw up a number of hundreds of pages of legislative proposals, but then implement it and do not use amendments to the contrary. The last time he tries to interpret my future voting behaviour, our behaviour. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Nacsa, that because there are eligible points in a bill, someone is not going to vote for it. [[16.50]] In the same way, there can be very unsupportable, unacceptable points, and the important thing about a bill is not only what is in it, but also what is left out. That's just the situation we're in right now. There are 10 very important areas left out of 14 of our climate protection bill, so unfortunately, we cannot support it. But if, of course, you vote against your amendment because you see that this amendment is not better, but worse, then I will be very happy to vote for it. We will hand-in-hand vote in favour of this bill, together with the members of the government. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-115	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP!
u2020-05-19-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, was inspired by Congressman Nacsa and fellow Member István Simicskó that I should speak now. I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that you can be sure: I will not vote in favour of these amendments either, so it will not only be our fellow Member from Turda who will say no to this; I will also vote in favour of a huge no, and I will not be ashamed of it yet. I'm not gonna be ashamed because there are things I can't handle. And the amendments that you have tabled, which Fidesz has raised as an amendment proposal and a TAB level, are simply unsuitable. I would also like to say to Congressman Nacsa what you have been trying to rub in here several times that Fidesz is acting and we are talking. Well, obviously we're in opposition right now, and I'd like to act now, but you don't really want to hear that. But the big problem is that Fidesz doesn't act either. So if I was looking at this climate change and the speed of climate change, I would have done a thousand things by now. Here is the second national climate change strategy. Where are the action plans? I beg you, it has been stated that the implementation of the national climate change strategy will take place through the action plans. You can't tell me anything that's relevant until then what the specifics of what's happened so far. There's always some reason why there's no meaningful action. The effects of climate change are also tremendously felt in Hungary. Physiological effects can be seen on human health. And agriculture is obvious, but not only in agriculture, water management, other areas of the economy, where are the action plans? Has it been brought to Parliament that in these areas we will do this and this, to do this, to provide such tools and such resources? Where have we seen any resources in the budget that we want to act in these areas? No, no, the government doesn't act either. And the proposals that you have put into the two proposals that you have written to virtually zero say one thing, say that you simply do not understand the gravity of climate change. So they just think it's the same case, that, well, we'll sort of treat it, and then we'll have something. There are far more serious, much more serious processes! So there's a very serious problem here, so I refuse to let you do what you don't. Yes, Fidesz-KDNP and the government should act. And I would like to tell my fellow Member Simicskó here about the climate crisis, that he said that I remember him correctly as a lawyer, didn't I? [[Dr. István Simicskó: Is.]] Yes, so this must not be seen legally, my fellow Member. The announcement of the climate crisis is a political category, expressing political will. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's the problem! That's the problem!]] My fellow Member, I would like to suggest to you that you take a moment or two to consider the international aspects and issues of climate change. And look at the ambitions that there are at global level, as well as at the level of the European Union, and what other countries mean by declaring the climate crisis. This is not a legal category, this is the statement of the category of government that is aware that there is a problem and expresses the political will to act. That is why the British Parliament and some other parliaments have announced the climate crisis resolution proposal. All you had to do was understand what needs to be understood. Well, even Pope Francis has been accused of being Balliberal, because Pope Francis has also spoken of declaring the climate crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should look much more closely into this process, this situation, take it seriously, and take the steps that need to be taken, and also take the more serious climate objectives. The European Union recently decided, perhaps last week, on the 2000 billion-dollar development package. It seems that the European Union is committed to transforming an economic structure that is climate-friendly. What will we do if money is given to virtually this type of project? Hungary will stay out of it, whether I look at renewable energy or look at other areas. So we will practically exclude ourselves from these sources, and I am sure that sooner or later both Hungary and the government will have to realise that we need to take it much more seriously and take much more serious steps to combat climate change. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-117	Thank you very much. For your information, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Fidesz Group will hand over ten minutes of the time frame of the debate to the KDNP Group. I would ask the staff of the technical box to modify the timeframes according to the announcement, in Hungarian: Fidesz should have ten minutes less time, KDNP should have ten minutes more time. That's how they'll speak from here on out. That's what happened. Well, Congressman Nacsa is already taking the opportunity to express his opinion, not in a two-minute time frame, but in an increased time frame. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-118	I thought this might happen. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for declaring my speech a weak provocation by Congressman Tordai. Provoking wasn't my goal, especially because as long as the black belt provocator is in this room, we don't dare enter this area anyway. The anarchists own you, we'll leave you to provoke, you're the master of this, so we're not trying to follow you. Mr President, yes, the bill you have tabled is three pages: the national climate change strategy is 250 pages, and what Mrs Schmuck said, Erzsébet, the first ITM action plan was put on the ITM website on 27 January, also hundreds of pages, which contain more than 60 concrete actions and action plans. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: That's why you came here to ask Secretary Kaderja!]] When it came up, what the date was, yes, I went there to ask, I wasn't sure about the date. It's on the website, but Congresswoman hasn't read it. 'Cause what's happening? If the government takes action, it makes action plans, it doesn't matter to you, but instead says here in Parliament that there is no action plan. But it's there. You have to read it. The government discussed it, accepted it, and then the Prime Minister announced some of its measures as a climate protection action plan, which is part of this big package. Once again, we are talking about hundreds of pages, dozens of action plans, dozens of actions. That's what the government is doing, and that's why we're saying what we're doing, and you've got loud voices. And the fact is, honourable Member, that you have betrayed yourself because you have said that this is not a legal matter for you, it is just a political matter for you, this is a political matter. It is not a legal matter for you, no matter what is described in the climate change strategy, no matter what is described in the action plan, no matter what is described in the climate protection action plan, no matter what documents are submitted by the government, what legislation it makes on climate protection, it is a political matter for you. I just told you that. We've said it many times over the years. You didn't think that was true, but you've betrayed yourself on many occasions, and you've been told that this is nothing but political trouble, a political matter instead of real action. And, yes, I hope, Congresswoman, that you will not be able to act from a government position on this subject for a long time, because you have this topic in better hands than Fidesz-KDNP. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And the government. What happened in those places where the climate crisis was announced? Seven days ago, Gergely Christmas decided to cut 85 trees on Zrínyi Road in one person, that's all. Instead of visiting the nursing home on Pesti Road, he couldn't, though he was only a mile away from the ATV studio, but he couldn't. But he was able to decide on 85 tree cuts in one person. [[17.00]] That's what the climate crisis means to you. We do not ask for this, because that is not what we want, but what we want is to plant ten trees for every child to be born, we want a national funding programme, we want a green government bond, we want rivers to be clean, we want illegal landfills to be destroyed, we want to ban burning, and so on and so on, we want carbon neutrality, we want the measures that the government has already taken, we want to implement, and we want to offer the government the help of Parliament. I regret that you are voting against the principle of the polluter pays, that you are voting against carbon neutrality, that you are voting against the reduction of emissions and that you are voting against the measures which, by the way, are included in the package of laws which you have submitted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-119	Thank you very much. Congressman László Hajdu, DK, please.
u2020-05-19-120	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I am a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I represent the Democratic Coalition on the Committee. I took part in this debate, where several of our fellow Members from Parliament presented their bill as a motion for proposal. I supported this proposal there, and it's even current, and everyone in this room knows it, as well as in the government, that this topic is current, and we owe it to them. Mr Secretary of State also attended the committee meeting, so I will not be able to say anything new, but I think that there are things that may be worth responding to. This particular bill, which has been laid down, has been said several times today, and has been rewritten with completely different amendments, of course, which is the version of the 1995 Law, namely the Law on the Environment, or the Law on Nature Protection of 2006, or a number of environmental laws have been passed in that government cycle, water management and much more, in those laws the law preparation of laws was quite different, and the role of the opposition was completely different, although a government was a left-wing government, Gyula Horn was the Prime Minister, where laws could have been made of up to two-thirds power. On the other hand, both the Nature Conservation Act and the Environmental Protection Act and the Water Management Act, the Environmental Protection Committee itself was a separate Environment Committee, and later the Environment and Municipal Development Committee was established a working group with representatives of opposition parties in it, and we discussed the law together with the sector. At the time he was the Ministry of Environment, Katalin Szili was the State Secretary, he led this debate, and we discussed the preparation of the law in substance. This is a large law, environmental protection and nature conservation, and a thousand amendments on water management, compared to the raw material, and an amendment to the opposition of around 100 to 110 has been adopted. Then it was a culture of law preparation. Now the chic is how to get the idea, the responsibility that as a member of the committee, as many members of the committee, along with me, who have signed this bill, how to get it out of the ground, and this has happened. I'm surprised in an area that it was so easily and from the hip that it could be acidified, and that was pollution caused by road transport. It's all right, what we've heard here is that it's a green program that has Paks II, and it gives us all the guarantees of decarbonization. We see that this cannot be transformed, and we may not want that view. But here's the road traffic, which is much more contaminated, I think than anyone thinks. The thing is, I live on a highway near the M3 highway, and in my constituency, I really have a problem with the waste gases, noise, dust and so forth caused by traffic. During the host hour, people are lining up, we know that sustainable development..., what are you doing there? But even though I'm on the Committee for Sustainable Development, there's nothing I can do for the electorate. In fact, I am also Vice President of the Hungarian Environmental Association, not only its member, for twenty-some years, so as a volunteer, I have been trying to do this for the protection of the environment in my private time, but we are still making such a political issue out of a serious professional question that we simply do not accept a line, a letter, which is professional if it is done by an opposition side. I have to add that it is not a question of political color that someone is capable of something, medicine, or, say, environmental protection, or air pollution or chemistry or physics, is not a political issue. It could be accepted in legislation that it has professional content and that it is not only political to legislate. The main problem I see here in this debate is that we are not talking about it at all. Let's shoot big, here, there, each other, the whole thing's falling apart. If I take my time, too, there will be a problem with 3.6 million cars per day in Hungary today, and more than 500 thousand trucks, and about an estimated figure comes in almost the same amount of machinery and agricultural machinery, then there is a terrible CO2 emissions, and they all go with diesel, petrol and everything, and on the highway, where, according to the measurements, 30-36 thousand vehicles per hour mean the future and the procession, so in and out, 36 thousand vehicles are such pollution! That's not what's bothering us, what's interesting is that I can shoot the other side, and he shoots back, and I can't stay down here and say big things to him. I believe that the responsibility did not come out of this debate, the responsibility that would force us, the legislators, to solve this problem. The fact that I know 14 proposals to this extent, I know that 10 have been grounded, in this state, I think I couldn't support them either as a competent, small-minded person. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-19-121	Thank you very much. Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, please. [[17.10]]
u2020-05-19-122	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman Hajdu, I am extremely pleased with this speech, as this has shown that the government's ambition to electrify public transport and to put on the market buses in urban conditions that are electrically driven, which consequently reduce the pressure on the environment and improve the quality of life of those living there, is the right direction. The same is the right direction, although I have had discussions in detail before, and we may still be able to argue with State Secretary Kaderjak, which also provides additional subsidies in the area of private vehicles in order to obtain as much electric cars as possible from the population that can reduce emissions in cities with congested internal transport. So, if I understand correctly, this was one of the key elements of my fellow Member's speech. I would like to point out that we fully agree on this issue. Therefore, in order to achieve a substantial reduction in emissions from transport in urban areas, electric car driving should be promoted and the purchase of electric vehicles for public transport should be supported. This can also be found in the Government's programme, the action plan that many of my fellow Members have already mentioned here. And as I see it, just in the course of tomorrow, Mr.Péter Kaderják will provide detailed information on what initial changes will occur in the case of public vehicle purchases in order to allow cheaper priced, less efficient electric vehicles to be purchased by as many Hungarian citizens as possible, from those who have small, medium incomes, but still want to leave as little car tracks as possible in the area of environmental load as possible. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-123	Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak out of time? [[For signal:]] Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue.
u2020-05-19-124	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to add one more thought to the speech by my fellow Member, Daniel Z. Karpa, and the reaction given to it in Nacsa Lőrinc. Lőrinc Nacsa said that energy efficiency renovations were started with the largest consumers, not with those consumers whose intervention would have been most effective and effective. And they didn't start these renovations with private households where government parties wouldn't have had the chance to steal a tenth of the money, twenty, five, one third, one quarter, who knows how much. It is true that there were residential programs, there was a home heat programme, there is also, but this is a few billion forints a year, while the EU has provided funding for this in the order of a thousand billion forints, and they have failed to negotiate so that it can be used for residential purposes, for the support of the people, on the contrary, very hard negotiations have been conducted to enable the government to use this money itself or to give it to businesses close to the government. So the great personal success of János Lázár was that after perhaps a year and a half of hard arm wrestling, he somehow got it out of Brussels so that it would not be for the people, but for the government to spend it itself, and obviously, in the usual way, he would steal a significant part of it for businesses close to the government or party. So this is what I wanted to say in addition to their previous climate policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2020-05-19-125	Congressman Benchik, Fidesz!
u2020-05-19-126	Dear Parliament, Dear colleague from Turda, Perhaps we agree that it is as important to modernise and make public institutions at least as efficient as the modernisation of residential buildings. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] However, it should be assumed that the fundamental and primary obligation of a government and local authorities to put in place public service bodies providing public services on the basis of a public mandate, from an energy point of view, and thus also to set an example for the public, as a responsible host, is to renovate these public service institutions and, if possible, not only to reduce energy use and thus reduce public expenditure, but also to provide a good example of an approach, setting such investments as an example for private enterprises and the retail sector. That's what happened. I would also like to say one more thing here: in the case of one such investment, not only energy savings, but also financial savings, but also a qualitative change in the service provided by that institution. Let's just think that if an energy upgrade takes place in a hospital, it doesn't take the draft out of the hospital during the winter period, and in the summer period, the heat that becomes unbearable in a ward that should not provide the right conditions not for suffering, but rather for healing. So I do not envy these financial resources from public institutions at all, and I do not envy those who use the services provided by our public institutions, whether they are sick or children going to school, so that they can benefit from the services in normal conditions, under better conditions and at a better level, because together, the development of the conditions for each energy modernisation and renewable energy production will result in better comfort in the supply conditions and thus better public service for citizens, which is basically the task. What I see is that this is not a channel of money, but, in the case of public institutions, the government has partly thrown money through the window with EU support, in order to make use of this money for investments that will result in future savings and provide better services for users. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-127	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak, honourable Members? [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'm just asking Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-05-19-128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have listened very carefully and with interest from the government, and we are watching the debate that is taking place around the bill and around the related proposal for a resolution, because it is an issue that is of particular importance to the government as well. We see that the law submitted and the related proposal for a resolution naturally respond to one of the greatest challenges of our time, the problem of climate change. Of course, climate change is a decisive factor in our future, and we are therefore convinced that in order to deal with this problem in a responsible way, we need thought-out plans and effective action. So we are on the government's side and we are always stressing this on this issue on the side of action. In view of the fate of the draft law, we believe that the proposals originally submitted, while the objectives that were formulated in it dealt with by the government are very important and priority issues, ambition, goals that we would have had in law, which we believe would have been an unbearable burden for the Hungarian population and the Hungarian economy if we had implemented them. And in essence, we could not have achieved the opportunities for economic development that, in the case of a more balanced target system, we see an opportunity. In fact, we think that the proposals that were included in it also raised questions regarding the security of supply of energy in Hungary. So from the government's side, we certainly welcome the fact that the original proposal has been amended on many points and is setting out the basic points of a more balanced programme that we consider to be enforceable. Of course, with the urgency of the fight against climate change, the Hungarian Government agrees, and we see that the measures we have taken so far, our energy and climate policy strategy adopted this year, as well as the climate and nature conservation action plan announced by the Prime Minister, prove this. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday 19 May 2020 130/2. Number Parliamentary Diary [[17.20]] Our Fundamental Law also states that we are responsible for the future generation, so we must protect the environment, its natural values and human health in the Carpathian Basin. In this spirit, the government has continued its work and will continue to take measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change in the future. Dear House, Hungary is committed to meeting the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement both as a party to the Paris Agreement adopted in December 2015 and as a Member State of the European Union, with the aim of keeping the global average temperature rise at well below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the average pre-industrial temperature. I would like to draw attention once again and reiterate that Hungary has been among the outstanding states in the fight against climate change, with sufficiently ambitious action plans and a sound legislative framework. I would like to reassure everyone who is watching and following up on this debate that Hungary has and has already had and still has legislation on climate protection, and in which this current law is new, it is that the climate neutrality target of 2050 decided by the government last year and set out in the national clean development strategy will be set at the statutory level, which, by the way, has been done by only a few EU Member States outside our country. While there is consensus at European level on this goal, it is rare when national legislation confirms this in national legislation. This is why we particularly welcome the fact that the proposed law and the proposals for a decision that we are adopting today confirm last year's decision that Hungary will achieve full climate neutrality by 2050, i.e. the remaining domestic emissions of greenhouse gases and their absorption will be balanced for 2050. I am convinced that Hungary will choose the path of the future, namely climate protection, energy sovereignty and green economic growth, rather than the past. Dear Parliament, The concept of the European Green Agreement will have a significant impact on European and domestic environmental and climate action over the coming years and decades. This EU process has already been mentioned in the debate. This agreement proposes a new growth strategy with a modern, resource efficient and competitive economy where net greenhouse gas emissions will cease by 2050 and where economic growth is not resource dependent. At the same time, the tasks ahead of us require complete and fundamental economic transformation, comprehensive strategic and policy planning, as well as very significant financial resources. I would like to recall that the climate and energy strategy adopted by the government, which is in force today, estimates the cost of achieving the 2030 climate strategy goals, its investment needs to HUF 14 000 billion, and the achievement of the 2050 target to HUF 50 000 billion. We therefore need very important measures and transformations to achieve these goals and to achieve these slightly less ambitious objectives, which have otherwise been expressed in the debate. The government has already taken a number of significant steps, developed a strategy and adopted action plans to move towards clean economic development. I would like to refer here to the fact that, of course, it has also adopted an action plan on climate change, which we are implementing during 2020 and, as has been said, more than 60 actions are included in this action plan. I would like to reiterate that the four aspects that give us the framework for action are very important for us. I would like to recall the first of these principles, so that the costs of the transition to a climate-neutral economy are primarily borne by the major, priority pollutants. We believe that this transformation must be carried out in such a way that the energy and food costs paid by families remain affordable and do not increase these costs. I also confirm from the government that it is not acceptable for the European Union to transfer money into this area in the next budget from other priority areas, and I also confirm that the government believes that without nuclear energy, we cannot achieve the objective of climate neutrality. This is not only said by the government; this has been the subject of a major debate, but the International Atomic Energy Agency says to the European Union that without peaceful use of nuclear energy, climate neutrality in 2050, which is, of course, a single commitment from a global perspective, very few targets this level of ambition, this transformation is not expected to be possible for the European Union without nuclear power. So we rely on the expert opinion of the nuclear energy agency and not on the nuclear energy agency, but also on the International Energy Agency. Dear House, Although Hungary is responsible for only 0.1 percent of the world's total emissions, it is an outstanding achievement in the fight against climate change. I would like to reiterate that, among the Member States of the European Union, Hungary is at the forefront of achieving the emissions reduction targets undertaken, and by 2030, it will be one of the few Member States that will not only be able to meet the objectives of sectors outside the emission trading system, such as transport, building energy, waste management and agriculture, but is expected to achieve them even beyond them. So Hungary also believes within the Union community that action is important. It has been said here that 17 Member States have signed a letter calling for the 2030 climate targets to be increased by the European Union, but there are currently at least five of these signatory countries which, since 1990, have not been able to reduce their emissions by 1% or even increase their emissions by one tonne. So the stowaway should not be sought in Hungary, but in other EU countries in this area. Therefore, there is no need to be a sucker in this fight, but to demand that, if Hungary achieves results, the others take this into account. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these results achieved by Hungary are not the results of the collapse of industry in 1990-91, but the results of the continuous efforts of three decades. I think this could be a long debate. This 33 percent performance is the result of a great deal of effort compared to 1990. By the way, from the government side, we consider it particularly important that the goals of economic development and climate protection should complement each other and function as mutually reinforcing goals, and once again an example of this is what happened in 2018, when Hungarian economic growth produced 5.1 percent, while domestic greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 0.9 percent. We want to continue this trend and achieve the objectives of economic development, climate protection and energy sovereignty in parallel. [[17 .30]] I would like to respond in the remaining time to a few criticisms of the government that will definitely require a reaction. It was said that the current draft did not include the passage for coal plants. Of course, when we hear the criticism that the government is not acting in this area, and in the meantime we will develop and implement the transformation of the last Hungarian lignite-fired power plant for climate protection and future-oriented purposes, we think that we will be carrying out one of the most exciting and major projects of the next decade of Hungarian climate protection. Without the 40% target for 2030, which is included in the current bill, this minimum reduction of 40 per cent could not be achieved if this programme were not implemented. We ask you to support the Hungarian government in this. It has also been said that energy efficiency programmes are not available for the Hungarian population. I would also like to refer here to the fact that many programs were running; the program is running the heat of the home, to mention only the last: with the help of the program just closed, 27 thousand remotely heated apartments are able to make the heating upgrade so that residents are expected to save at least 10 percent of their heating bill without any further intervention. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] With regard to transport greening, I would just like to refer to what the Member pointed out that we have programmes in the field of electromobility, both individual and community transport. So, on the part of the government, we consider the adoption of the bill to be particularly important and to be supportive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, I need to inform you of an announcement. I declare today that T/10526 on banning the placing on the market of certain disposable plastics The rapporteur for the proposal for a regulation No 1 has withdrawn it. I would remind you that this proposal was part of our agenda adopted on Monday. I would like to inform you that the general debate on the bill will not take place tomorrow, in line with the withdrawal. The amended agenda has been published, which is available on the parliamentary IT network. We now turn to the next bill, my dear Parliament. The Commission's reports on the non-delaying tasks presented in the context of the climate crisis and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, Zita Gurmai, MSZP, Ákos Hadházy, independent, Bernadett Szél, independent, Ágnes Vadai, DK, Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik, Timea Szabó, Dialogue, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP, presentation submitted by representatives H/7380. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. Mr Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur for the committee. I'll inform you that you have up to eight minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 14 May 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed H/7380 on non-deferential tasks arising from climate change emergencies. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. and accepted by 23 votes in favour with 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, This afternoon we are discussing the proposal for three laws and decisions in contact and in a coherent manner, and the essence of all three proposals is that the protection of our living environment and the created world is in the interest of all of us, not only in our interests, but also in our responsibility, because we all want to drink clean water, we want quality food, good air and a more bearable climate. However, to describe today's situation, I would like to say that, according to the World Meteorological Organisation's Climate Assessment Report, the year 2019, which is the second or third warmest year since the start of systematic measurements, is ending a very warm ten years globally, and the report also confirms that we are witnessing these changes at an extremely accelerated rate. The global carbon concentration reached record levels in the atmosphere in 2018 and continued to increase in 2019. This is only a problem because CO2 remains in the atmosphere for centuries and in the oceans for longer, thus maintaining and increasing the process of climate change. It is not an incidental circumstance, and I believe that, today, during this period, it is of particular importance that extremely hot weather conditions are creating an increasing burden on human health and health. This report, which I mentioned, also points out that in 2018, 220 million more vulnerable people aged 65 years were affected by heat waves than between 1986 and 2005, on average, and more than 820 million people were starving last year. The food crisis affected 33 countries, 26 of which were caused by the weather and the extreme economic crisis and the conflicts. The National Meteorological Service also publishes a number of data sets showing adverse developments in conditions, in this case domestic conditions, and, of course, not only in the area of temperature change, but also in terms of precipitation and precipitation distribution. For example, the data of the precipitation changes in the season breakdown show a significant difference in spring: between 1981 and 2010, spring precipitation decreased by 17 percent, although this basically determines the quantity and quality of production in agriculture. The number of rainy days is less, and the rain is falling in the form of a thunderstorm. So you can see that the created world, our environmental heritage, is in danger, its protection is our common future, our shared responsibility; the government is acting with this knowledge. The goal to be achieved is to ensure that the changed circumstances do not lose our country. The government's aim is to ensure that the majority of Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are mutually supportive solutions, and both can be considered as clean energy sources. With the combined use of solar and nuclear power, by 2030, 90 percent of Hungarian electricity generation will be carbon-free. Dear House, Thanks to the climate and nature conservation action plan announced by the Government, the elimination of illegal landfills will start on 1 July, and the distribution of disposable plastics will be banned from 2021. Clean water is our national treasure, so we appreciate and protect the water supply of the Carpathian Basin. The goal is to protect our rivers from waste coming from abroad. By implementing the climate and nature conservation action plan, the government will start implementing the most important Hungarian climate protection and priority regional development project of the next decade, since, as Mr. State Secretary said, the greening of the Mátra Power Plant will begin. In addition, small and medium-sized enterprises will receive support for renewable energy production. It is important that we have quality forests throughout the country, so our main goal is to increase the country's forest and tree area to 27 percent by 2030. Part of this program is that ten trees will be planted after each newborn. The government is already treating wooding as a priority programme, since in 2019 some 22 million woodlings were planted by public forestry farms from February to April. [[17.40]] The capacity of solar power plants will be increased over the next ten years. The aim is to multiply these capacities by providing cheap and innovative energy for Hungarian families. The implementation of the transport greening programme, which is the priority of the climate and nature conservation action plan, will also begin and, as has already been said, green government bonds will be introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, Action against climate change can therefore be taken and we must work to ensure that the changed circumstances are the winner of our country. I therefore consider the proposed bill to be supported. If I had a little more time, I would not ask for a word on the next occasion, but I would say that in the opposition benches, I think it might be a little more fairer to take a stand against the government or the local authorities on these issues, because, indeed, as has been said here in many cases, on the one hand, there are programmes that serve the energy rationalization programme of the homes of the residential communities, from opening doors to facade insulation to the exchange of boilers; there are complex energy programmes in almost all our mid-towns or large cities within the framework of the Modern Cities programme; on several occasions, it has been said that we will strive to modernise community transport, use solar energy, we will use geothermal energy to heat a significant part of the public institutions in Békéscscsaban; and indeed, in the area and settlement development of operational programmes, there have been a lot of crèdes, kinders, kinders, schools, older homes, public institutions and others. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-19-131	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member, draftsman of the minority opinion. You have seven minutes tops, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-132	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is a very symbolic speech from my former fellow Member here in the presentation of the position of the Legislative Committee. I have some bad news for you, and this bad news is a bit typical of the government's activities: you have read that there is a bill before us regarding the ban on disposable plastics, which has been withdrawn today. It is about apparent from the government's attitude that for a very long time, if we take only the last ten years, a strange combination of destruction and inactivity has been observed in climate policy, and now they have reached the time of the additional action. That's extremely sad. By the way, it is certainly a relief that in 2020 we have now reached the point that before the Parliament there are two proposals, a bill and a proposal for a resolution, and there is not much to hear from the front of the table, from the pro-government lines, that fighting climate change or the impact of climate change or reducing environmental destruction or dealing with it would not be one of our most important tasks here. I'm glad we made it this far. I also said at the Legislative Committee's meeting that I was pleased that it was obviously a surprise that, after the Commission had been canceled in December last year, we finally invited this to the plenary session, and the majority of the governors accepted it, but we also thought that they would want to make a political game out of it. And Nacsa Lőrinc introduced his school example to this. So he actually stood up and talked about some amazing bullshit without blinking his eyes. And he did this so truthfully that I think there will be some people who believe that what really happened here was that they submitted well-meaning amendments. And he was outraged that they only submitted amendments, government representatives. That's not exactly how it happened. As my fellow Members have said, with regard to the previous bill of dialogue and our proposal for a resolution, what has happened is that they have made it impossible, in particular, to present meaningful action with these proposals, if they are obviously adopted, that you will be able to adopt them. You always talk about the need to act. Now I'd like a very brief list of errors with you, and obviously I'm not addressing you, but the government and the pro-government majority... [[Lőrinc Nacsa enters the Chamber.]] Mr Nacsa has also arrived, the best time to act on the side of the governing parties or the government, on the civilian government, in this regard, in terms of climate change and environmental destruction. We can get to the point that we really need a complex approach, a complex package of measures, a change in economic policy, and the rest. For a very long time you have denied the existence of the problem, not so long ago, even last year, you could hear statements from pro-government politicians with such content that climate change is some sort of Bolshevist trick, thank God, in a few months you have managed to get to the point that you no longer doubt that it is an extremely important challenge. But you started governance in 2010 by destroying it, making a mess out of the institutional system of nature conservation, and apparently trying to oil the economy and heat the economy by breaking down barriers such as nature conservation so that it doesn't interfere with the economic liberal philosophy that you represent. Let's see what happened in the country. A complex approach is needed: how can the country move towards sustainability if territorial differences increase so brutally? It is therefore apparent that the demographic indicators and economic indicators that are reflected in rural areas are shocking. Congressman Herczeg praised the government's efforts to green transport. None of this has been implemented, and the vehicle park for public transport is in much worse shape now than it was in 2010. Nothing has become of national bus production, and tomorrow we will have a bill that carries enormous dangers, a privatisation of inter-urban transport, which will certainly not go in the direction of providing better services to rural areas, unfortunately without guarantees. Let's not talk about the rail network. Obviously, it would be extremely important to have a meaningful, functioning, usable, high-quality rail network, especially for rural areas. Compared to this, you have just voted on a proposal to spend a thousand billion forints not on the development of the exploited and extremely important railway network, but on the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. So that's against it, too. We could talk about the state of the utility systems, the water systems, they're on the verge of collapse. We can talk about the state of rural transport infrastructure, and at all that we know how important the right urban policy for climate change is to have urban policy instruments, municipalities, metropolitan cities and small settlements, in which there is a real opportunity for local action on this important issue. Compared to this, you have been constantly evacuating the local government and removing assets from the municipalities for the past ten years, and in the last six months, in a very extreme way. And we're going in the direction of not giving cities the opportunity to prepare for the extremely important XXI. They are simply putting these municipalities, especially the rural cities with opposition leadership, in a position that they may or may not be able to operate in the first century. So they increase vulnerability, reduce the scope and scope of action. But the point is, fellow Members, I agree that it is not the wording that matters here, but the content, so what we want to do in particular. You've heard criticisms here before, it's a climate crisis. I could argue for a long time why there is an emergency and why we need to act immediately and why the use of the word is justified, but I myself have prepared an amendment to the Legislative Committee and I have tried to reinstate in the proposal for a resolution that we have proposed, the important elements that you have taken out with a pen. One of the most important elements of this is to explain what the important content of the action is, so what the climate crisis means. So in our reading, in order to curb climate change and reduce its impact, a complete social, economic and environmental paradigm shift in order to facilitate adaptation, which we would like to envisage and, on behalf of the Parliament, to steer the government in this direction. We have talked a lot about it, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing energy consumption and, in addition, increasing energy efficiency, food self-determination, circular economy, preparing critical infrastructures for the situation, etc. I have no chance to explain these, but you have amended these essential elements of this proposal and made the proposal virtually inappropriate for other commitment objectives. And the suggestion that nuclear power is green in any way or forward-looking, and I will disprove it in a next comment. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-133	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the author, or the author, who would like to speak as rapporteur, please indicate this to me. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Schmuck, please.
u2020-05-19-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are nearing the end of a very specific story, when a parliamentary resolution proposal will be adopted in a way that the authors disagree. I never thought I'd be forced to vote off my own resolution proposal, and I will if no miracle happens. [[17.50]] Unfortunately, I cannot count on this miracle, knowing the government's attitude towards green affairs and climate change. Let's take another look at the history. In May last year, right after the British Parliament announced the climate crisis, LMP also submitted a similar intention to make a decision, given that Hungary was extremely exposed to the consequences of climate change. Of course, the majority of the government swept him off the table, not into a series of objects. Of course, if we look back at this period, we remember that a year ago, the Fidesz-KDNP considered the acceleration of climate change to be a communist trick. In the summer of last year, this was how the events in the context of climate change went up. The movement of young people started, the UN Secretary-General called the climate summit on 23 September, and during this period the world's leaders, Pope Francis, were talking about climate crises and climate crises, and they stressed that the time for action had come instead of nice words. Since climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, its consequences are risking the lives of both today's and future generations, we considered it important that, before the UN Climate Summit here in Parliament, we know the government's position on what it intends to represent at the Climate Summit. Of course, in the proposal for a decision, we also summarised the main opposition proposals that we considered necessary to combat climate change. Our aim was to finally address climate change in line with the global EU ambitions and the aspirations of neighbouring countries, in line with the weight and the importance of national strategy. Of course, this includes reducing greenhouse gas emissions that increase global warming and adapting to unforeseen negative changes. We thought it was impossible to maintain the government's position that only rich, developed countries should set and deliver a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. It is particularly unacceptable to expect other countries to provide the conditions for preparing for domestic adaptation. There is a need for responsible government behaviour based on the precautionary principle. In fact, the current government's economic and environmental policy over the last ten years has not been climate friendly in the least, that emissions are increasing from 2014 to year, and that the principle of self-sufficiency is significantly damaged. So far, the government has unforgivably failed to take important steps in terms of energy saving, improving efficiency and using renewable resources that are undoubtedly useful to us. However, all of this could have served to reduce our energy dependency, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and to protect our air purity, not to mention the billions of years of spending savings at national, institutional and residential level. Agriculture and forestry, water management, strategic infrastructures, health care and local authorities are also unprepared to address this issue. But the government has not taken effective preventive action in this matter, and its numerous steps make it impossible to take action. The H/7380 on the non-deferential climate change emergency tasks submitted at the beginning of September last year. The majority of governments have laid down the resolution proposal for many months, although the acceleration of climate change is becoming increasingly apparent, the fact that Hungary is a serious sufferer of extreme weather conditions, and we therefore need to act urgently. Our agriculture is most exposed to climate change. We can feel in our own pocket how extreme weather conditions cause great damage to producers and consumers, as food prices have skyrocketed and who knows where they stop. Last month, there was perhaps an 8.7 percent increase in food prices. We have already faced droughts in agriculture during this period of the year, and meteorologists spoke in April about a semi-desert situation in Hungary, but there were frost damage, and who knows what else will happen. At last, on 27 April the Committee for Sustainable Development was able to put on the agenda the proposal for a decision in the climate crisis, as my fellow Member Bencsik mentioned, but it soon turned out that it would have been better to keep it in the drawer. It's hard to say it as an author, but it's true. The Fidesz faction package, which has in the meantime increased to its TAB-modifying rank, has completely weakened the original decision and put objectives, targets and elements that are completely unacceptable in the decision, which are in opposition to the European Union's, but also to the global objectives, and another part, although important for environmental protection and nature protection, is almost useless in terms of climate change. Before I say our position on the TAB modification package, allow me to say a few words about the situation of the original resolution proposal itself. It has specific objectives that seem to be limited and therefore need to be set more stringent targets. Antal Csárdi and Péter Ungár submitted amendments to these proposals for the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, which the majority of governments voted off as usual. These proposals set out for 2030 to reduce CO2 emissions by 65 per cent compared to 1990 and to achieve climate neutrality by 2040 instead of 2050. I note that there is increasing pressure at international level to tighten up climate targets. However, the vast majority of the proposal for a decision is still current and even more current than last September. These include, in particular, adaptation tasks such as agriculture, health and the challenges facing education. The deadline of 31 December 2019 for the preparation of the Climate Law was already lost, and the opposition amendments would therefore have pushed the deadline to 31 December 2020. Because there is a need for climate law, which sets goals with the power of the law, the system of instruments and institutions. As I referred to earlier, as rapporteur, I was surprised by the Fidesz fraction's amendment package. So far, it has been a fidesz practice to reject opposition proposals. Now it's a new element to completely rewrite; which, of course, I'm not even sure I would have a problem with, but it is if the author doesn't recognize it on his own proposal, because he's so weakened, and in the end he's forced to vote off his own proposal. The Fidesz fraction and now the TAB modification package cancel the announcement of the climate crisis, I think, because the Fidesz fraction does not understand the severity of climate change and the message of the publication of the climate crisis. By 2030, it sets a 40% reduction target, which we have already achieved once in 2013, and since then, we know we have lost 8 percent advantage. We are on a growth path in terms of CO2 emissions. Thus, it may not even be 40 percent by 2030 if the government's attitude to climate change does not change. Moreover, this 40 percent goes against the EU's ambitions, which must now be made clear. I have just received publicity from the letter I mentioned earlier, and also from the Secretary of State, noted by 17 EU Environment Ministers, which, of course, we know that the government has refused to set a reduction target of 50-55 per cent by 2030. The share of renewables will be set at 21 percent by the government by 2030. It cannot be said that this is a very ambitious goal, while the European Union is talking about a 30% target. Obviously, there's a reason why our government only thinks 21 percent. I don't think it's surprising to say that because of the expensive, dangerous and unacceptable Paks nuclear power plant, the government wants to do just that. The climate bill has been cancelled with the amendment package, although in the debate in Parliament, Mr Bencsik may remember it when he said that the country and the government would have a climate bill in a short time. [[18.00]] What is most incomprehensible in the amending package is to include the government's climate and nature conservation action plan in the resolution proposal. This is pointless because this action plan is completely irrelevant in terms of climate control and climate adaptation. I have already stated on several occasions why it has no real effect on the fight against climate change. I don't want to repeat that right now. I might be able to do it later if the majority of the government asks for it. The point is that I call on the majority of governments not to vote in favour of the TAB amendment package and to support the original proposal, including opposition amendment proposals. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-135	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the pointer and pointers that if they wish to speak at the very end, they will have 3 minutes 35 seconds. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government now or later. [[For signal:]] Now. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-136	Mr President, Dear rapporteur, I would just like to respond to a few points that have been made in substance and I would like to recall some facts about them. There was a statement in the brochure that Hungary is going against the European Union's targets and does not accept the proposal of the European Union that is not yet an EU proposal, only a Commission proposal to raise the 2030 greenhouse gas targets to 50-55 percent. This statement is not true, it has been said that it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people that we support this goal unconditionally. In contrast, the fact is that the Hungarian Government has established and put in writing a so-called comment on this issue, and we have made a proposal to the European partner Member States, in which we propose that, since the target increase would actually cancel the joint European work of the last three or four years, we will start the debate that we have been conducting for three years, then this is a very serious point. So we must take this proposal seriously, not only on paper and in a letter, but also to think about the consequences of this, and if this very significant change in European politics is justified, then let us take it seriously and everyone should take it seriously. We propose that the 2030 targets can be discussed if each European Member State, not in general, commits itself to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 per cent by 2030, by each Member State. Then it is a serious saying, since action proves that a Member State does not reduce its own emissions by 55% or at least 40%. We look forward to the response of the European Member States and the European Commission to this question, because if someone says that they themselves are not willing to reduce by 40 percent, but we generally increase this reduction target to 55 percent, we do not consider it a serious partner. So the truth here is not that we are rejecting this, but the fact is that we have laid down conditions for the European Commission that can underpin the seriousness of this question. With regard to the criticism of clean vehicles, let me just mention the number that may have been published recently that, during the economic crisis, the sales of motor vehicles in Europe decreased by 25 percent. In particular, the sales of clean vehicles, clean electric vehicles or hybrid vehicles have increased with joy. And where did he grow most? Hungary. During the period of crisis. I think it's a remarkable achievement. It does not praise the government's work in itself, as Hungarian consumers are now becoming increasingly aware of their choice, but I think that it would be difficult to deny the government's support policy in this respect at least completely in the light of this fact. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The full relevance of renewable energy and action plan to climate change. I would like to refer to the fact that, for example, in the action plan, we want Hungary's electricity production, which is the heart of climate protection, as clean transport and clean heating can be achieved in case of clean electricity, so we want 90 percent of electricity production to be carbon-free by 2030. This was 60 percent last year, in April this year the share of carbon-free electricity production in domestic consumption was 74 percent. In two years, electricity generation has increased tenfold from solar power plants. If you're saying that this is irrelevant to climate protection, I mean, that we produce electricity on an increasing basis free of carbon, then that's a very strange claim. So I wanted to add these few factual remarks to the criticisms of the government at this point. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome my fellow Members, and if I take a good note, you will have ten minutes and a second or two at the end of the debate. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur for the designated Committee for Sustainable Development. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-138	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 27 April, the Committee on Sustainable Development held a detailed debate on the proposal for a decision and concluded that it complies with house rules and legal and legislative requirements arising from the Fundamental Law. No one in this House disputes, despite the statement of opposition speakers, that it has become certain today that humanity is not only a witness and sufferer of the particular change in the climate that we are experiencing, but also partly a cause of the effects of emissions of greenhouse gases and other socio-economic activities. Therefore, we must work together to ensure that the changed circumstances can be the winner of our country, not only the international interests, but also the national interests, because we are talking about the protection of the created world, our environmental heritage, our common future. Instead of merely declaring the climate crisis, the aim is to consistently implement the objectives and directions set out in the climate and energy strategies, action plans and the climate and nature conservation action plan adopted by the government. In the climate and nature conservation action plan, the elimination of illegal landfills has begun. Our common goal is to protect our rivers from waste coming from abroad within the framework of this action plan, as clean water is our national treasure, so we must value the water supply of the Carpathian Basin. The government is among the most important programmes of the next decade to promote the green technology change of the domestic economy, while supporting the increase in the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises to produce renewable energy by HUF 32 billion. The reforestation of the country will continue, as well as the electoration of Community transport. The aim is to increase the forest area from 21 percent to 27 percent in Hungary. We may also agree that the level of forest frying has a significant impact on its natural esophageal capacity, its greenhouse gas absorption capacity in the country's ecosystem. [[18.10]] Thanks to the programmes for the reconstruction of habitats, the state of natural values will improve at 100,000 hectares in the coming years. Between 2010-18, the government has already spent more than HUF 120 billion on environmental remediation. Increasing the size of irrigated areas is one of the priority areas for adaptation. The aim is to increase the volume of irrigated areas from the current 87 thousand hectares to 200 thousand hectares by 2022 and to 400 thousand hectares by 2030. The spread of irrigation farming will allow farmers to adapt more flexibly to the challenges of weather change. Here, in the speech by the President, Ms Schmuck Erzsébet, the legal and political implications of such a proposal for a resolution, or even a bill, have repeatedly emerged during the discussion and adoption of such a proposal for a resolution. If the government were not working to establish legally relevant, sustainable agreements between the Member States of the European Union, it would continue to be a series of political lonzunges that we can witness. Timely proposals are also formulated in the European political sphere, especially by Members and political groups with relatively little interest in the interests of the people, and it is not expensive for them to serve the interests of European citizens who, by the way, feel very rightly responsible for protecting their own environment and their common climate. But in order for these political speeches to be rooted in practice, we need legal frameworks, and legal frameworks in directives, regulations, binding, must end with the inclusion in the national legal order, more precisely: the beginning of action must be preceded by the establishment and establishment of these legal formulas. Where there is no legal obligation which the Parties consider to be binding on themselves by negotiated means [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , then there will be no such executable and binding requirement for all. It is very important that we see this, fellow Members, because without it there will be no possibility of defending national interests (The President bells) Only the enforcement of international interests will say more and more even in this decision-making room. Thank you very much for your attention, and I apologize for exceeding the time limit. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-05-19-139	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik.
u2020-05-19-140	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps Mr President will forgive my momentary surprise and delay while I have been looking into the microport, as I expected a much bigger debate on this issue, although it was already possible to expect that agendas on similar topics would somehow slip into each other. There's an advantage, there's a downside. The advantage of the single opposition representative, although he has run out of time at the previous item, is that he has a way of responding to what has been said here on the one hand, even though he no longer had the opportunity to address further questions to the well-prepared State Secretary on the other hand, of course and essentially in the spirit of constructivity, not without the political criticism which, I feel, is the fundamental need for a parliamentary democracy, should not be offended. I must say that within the framework of the various energy efficiency services and programmes of the retail segment, I feel that a legitimate debate and a debate on fertile soil have finally begun. There is a debate between us, I don't know how much this can be called a debate, perhaps even at the level of the discourse, where it is worth touching the system. It can be seen that community, EU funds and not donations, not blessings, benefits, but resources for us can be reached in this area. I would like to note here that I am particularly irritated by the fact that someone treats EU funds as a one-sided donation or aid, as this is not only against Hungary's payment of membership fees, but also by our previously lost customs revenue and countless other lost resources that were at the disposal of our country and the national economy in previous decades. But let us limit ourselves to EU funds that could also be made available to the retail segment. I can understand that the government has started part of the energy efficiency programmes with different Community institutions, and I also recognise that they can be more polluting than a household. The only thing in Hungary is that there are a lot of public institutions, but it is much, much less than a household, and if I look at the total emissions volume, either the emissions, or the behaviour patterns of certain parts of the household segment, starting with burning habits, we could continue the line for a very long time, then we find that the household is a very serious segment in terms of total emissions levels. If we are thinking about energy saving investments, we can achieve much greater results in my view with the involvement of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian households in these programmes. When it comes to the heat of the home or its partners, since this is not the only program, please allow me to indicate that these are cosmetic programs. I do not want to underestimate the millions grouped here, or, if any, 1-2 billion or more forints, in order not to mention the front of the house, that I call this nothing, because these programs are not nothing. But if we look at the range of potential users and look at how the retail segment starting from a power disadvantage can reach these programs, we can see that the circle of users is approaching the few tens of thousands of people at an annual level, and then I was very, very benevolent, because I do not want to cause political debate, and here we can expect millions of users, say, in a decade-long perspective. So it can be seen that 1-2 percent can be achieved through these programmes by grouping so many budgetary resources here. Here, too, let us not forget the unworthy situation of the fact that the most exposed social groups, if any, are disabled and, where appropriate, those at risk of breaking down, should be able, say, to successfully execute a web bid within half an hour, to submit the necessary documents. So it is the groups that are already at a power disadvantage that are even more likely to suffer from these programmes than those who are prepared to wait for a similar opportunity. I would therefore like to call upon the Government of Hungary to continuously expand these programmes, otherwise to expand the resources grouped here in a way that goes beyond inflation. But where I see a serious opportunity, it's the expansion of the CSOK. I think this is an area where, even if we do not come to terms with it today, results can be achieved in the long term, because the CSOK is an important political product for the government and I am not asking you to write this down as a pejorative indicator, a political product that you want to make political progress out of. At the same time, this cannot be imagined effectively if it keeps the range of users as narrow as it is now. After all, what happens to the typical Hungarian citizen in a living situation if, let's say, he does not want to buy a new residential property for 40-50 million forints, and we were benevolent again, but he wants to expand or renovate? Why does the Government of Hungary not expand the CSOK towards renovations so that the total support mass or the entire preferential loan is available to citizens who can jump at least one energy level in their own home after the renovation? Why don't we work out a programme to make energy efficiency available to a wide range of citizens in the area of and in relation to the expansion of the CSOK, which can then be used for, for example, demographic objectives in the area of housing expansion? I simply see no reason why the Government of Hungary should not start in this direction, and I believe that opposition support could also be available in this area. What I see is that in the current way, the CSOK alone, I don't want to visualize that it's freezing, but I see that whoever has been able to use it so far, and who has been able to take advantage of a very large number of benefits, that if it's about wealthy citizens, it could have its effects, demographics, if he had them, for sure. [[18.20]] Unfortunately, the indicators do not confirm this yet, but let us be be benevolent and assume that the situation could be even worse if these effects had not occurred. I would also like to say that we simply cannot go to the productive debates about the fact that the expansion of the CSOK is an absolute area of existence, and it could be an absolute area that the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian opposition should be able to hold meaningful debates in Parliament. When we were arguing today about the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, we were discussing investments that could benefit more from domestic sources or borrowing tools, and we might find the resources for the residential segment of energy modernisation, and we could also find the resources, as far as Budapest-Belgrád is concerned, which would require the expansion of the CSOK. With regard to the debate on the multi-enterprises already mentioned, I would very much like the government to move towards involving large companies in a way that is consistent with public burden-sharing, where appropriate, in the prevention of energy problems and, say, in the financing of energy investments. We see successful international examples of this, and we see ideas that point to this. But I'm just gonna have to go back to the pit case again. The exact opposite of this is achieved in the pit. I do not believe that the intention of any government in any nation state has shown what is happening in Göd, since there is net pollution without the possibility of public control. Multi-companies are underway without the possibility that there could be public control or opposition-led government control over this. It could be government and Fidesz county-led control, but we don't see any trace of it yet; let's be benevolent and assume that there will be such a thing. What we see is that when we talk about climate change and climate change, we really need to catch the big business segment. You cannot cover for long by saying that emissions have decreased by 33 percent, and I would like to point out, in essence, once again, that most of the previous production capacity has fallen, or that what has fallen into foreign hands, may have been closed and disappeared from the Hungarian sky. It is quite simply impossible to achieve results without involving large companies in public burdens and under the principles of different pollution. We see that this is simply not happening in Hungary. I don't mean to say that multi-company companies are saying and ordering all kinds of relevant regulations or laws from the government, but we see a lot of times that their lobbying is brutally high compared to what could be a healthy nation state giving itself. I have criticised the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era very, very much from the approach that I think that they have provided too much for multi-enterprises as a one-sided discount, as a job creation infrastructure support. I can see that the volume of this has increased even further since 2010, and that Hungary has become a paradise for multi-company companies. This is also apparent from the brutal reduction in corporate tax for multinationals, which resulted in a 1 percent reduction for Hungarian small entrepreneurs. But it is certain that if we are serious about dealing with the negative effects of climate change or at least the attempt to live with climate change, the ability to stay on this planet, then we need to start thinking about these issues. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-05-19-142	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Important issues are mentioned again in the Parliament, as we discussed important issues on the previous agenda. I regret that opposition has become a fashion for non-supporting their own proposal. I will now go beyond the fact that Mrs Schmuck, Mrs Erzsébet, does not support her own proposal. It shouldn't be that much like other opposition representatives, but we're gonna get past that. Thank God, there's a strong majority, and on important issues like climate protection, we can vote on laws and take decisions, so there's no need to be afraid. We are talking about very important issues, because we need to take account of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability at the same time, and we are helped by a lot of European Council, European Commission directives, decisions, and, of course, by the last thirty years, of which you are usually trying to deny your results, but we are still among the 21 countries that have been able to increase your economy while at the same time being able to significantly reduce its emissions. I think it's such a good foundation, a good result that you don't have to deny, because it's hard to argue that you systematically deny all results. We have never said that what we have achieved so far in Hungary is enough, or that this is the end, that we will be satisfied and sit back. And as my fellow Member, Mr Bencsik, said, no one here in this Chamber denies the fact of climate change, nor the impact of human activity on this, and how an overly globalised and consumption-oriented society contributes to this. Conservative Christian Democratic politics has always supported small communities. The family is also such a small community, a value-bearing, value-creating pillar of society, so it is no coincidence that the idea of protecting the created world is close to us. This is also a Community action, a Community direction, as the support of communities, the strengthening of communities and the strengthening of local communities contribute to a more livable country. Obviously, there are many instruments in this dimension to maintain sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. There are a number of instruments for this, and there are many areas to be taken into account: rural development, education, employment, environmental and nature protection, and social and social aspects. My regret, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is difficult to hold a debate on such an important issue by telling the Secretary of State Schmuck that it does not matter that there has been an increase in the production and use of clean energy without emissions. When he said the share of electricity in his speech, he yelled out and said that it didn't matter. That's what matters. These are small steps, once again we have not said that we have come to the end, we have announced further plans, there are plans for action, there are strategies, there is a climate plan, there is an action plan, and we would like to count on you in the future. I did not like the attitude when Erzsébet Schmuck said that when the second climate change strategy was being debated, it was bad that the rent was cheap, because he encouraged households to consume, and he said that Hungarian families should pay more expensive bills. I don't agree with that. We take the principle of the pollution payment, and we want the cost of climate protection not to be due to the increase in Hungarian families' prices and prices of food, and not to pay the costs of fighting climate change by making the Hungarian families' livelihoods more expensive, keeping their homes more expensive and making the food they receive more expensive. I do not agree with this direction, and we in Fidesz-KDNP do not agree with that principle. We believe that we should not have the public pay for climate protection, but the large polluters, the large polluting countries, the large polluting companies, pay for the costs of climate protection. I think that this is a much fairer attitude than paying the costs of hardworking Hungarian or European citizens and families. It is also difficult for the debate to be denied or criticized by you in any action taken by the Government on this subject. The results will also be denied and the measures and measures that we have taken or will take thereafter. Obviously, I understand that you must maintain this political discourse, and it is in your interest to demonstrate that nothing has happened in this. It's just, fellow Members, let's be honest with each other, that's not true. It is not true that nothing has happened in this area, it is not true that we have no results, no partial results, it is not true that there are not many future decisions that you could stand beside. I can't understand what they're finding in the release of disposable plastics, the elimination of illegal landfills, the introduction of green government bonds, the removal of PET bottles from our rivers, or the electronicisation of urban transport. [[18.30]] If I have read it correctly, perhaps the Secretary of State will announce a further increase in subsidies for electric car purchases tomorrow, and, as he said, it can be seen from the fact that the Hungarian people are buying more and more consciously. This is good news, and I think that we all have a responsibility in this, to raise this awareness in our citizens, to try in some way to lead the way or direction. A meaningful debate on such important issues can be held if it is not the basic state, it is not your starting point to deny all results and to criticise all measures taken or to be taken, but, in addition to recognising the results, they have, of course, improved proposals, in addition to recognising the decisions, the decisions that are taking place and the decisions that are taking place in the future. We obviously thank you for these, but I think that it is only fair or fair that, in addition, you acknowledge the results that we have achieved in this area or which we have set ourselves and which we are moving towards, to which we have taken decisions that will help us achieve our goals. Of course, there are many indicators or indicators in this area. We belong to the first third of the European Union, and it is also a pity to deny it, and we are almost all in the first third of the European Union. It's a good thing. I am not saying that we are in the first place, nor am I saying that we are where we want to be, but it is absolutely important that we find ourselves in the first third of the 27 Member States, and I think there is something to be proud of. There's a lot of work to be done for the future, so let's not deny it, and let's do it together. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, Dialogue.
u2020-05-19-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, we are discussing two very closely linked laws and decisions in a row, so I would not repeat the arguments on the content, just as I would not mention the procedure Fidesz played out of the original proposals, the bill or the proposal for a resolution. I would just like to thank Erzsébet Schmuck and the LMP faction for drawing up this resolution proposal and for making it a joint opposition proposal. I mean, I think that it was submitted in 2020 and even in 2019, if at least the opposition parties could agree that this is indeed the most serious problem facing our society, which requires immediate substantive action, and not a fake act that the Fidesz government has presented not only in the last ten years, but also in recent months and weeks, I think we are already ahead. So in this spirit, I hope that sooner or later our pro-government colleagues will also see the weight of the problem, and that I should just illustrate on one of the concrete examples that have emerged here, they will not launch programs where less than three thousand households have received support in the energy upgrade of the family homes within the programme "Home Warm" but programmes where a significant part of the four million Hungarian households can start energy efficiency renovations with public support over a few years, as we know this is one of the biggest sources of our carbon emissions. So not three thousand, but, let's say, three hundred thousand households should be involved in such a program every year or every two years. I can accept the self-polishing speeches of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions when they can deliver this performance. Until they are able to take meaningful action, until not only they are able to come up with substantive proposals, but even opposition proposals are completely neutered and practically turned to the opposite, unfortunately we cannot give this respect and recognition to the pro-government colleagues. So I need you to pull yourselves together, look at the calendar, look around the world. And at least take into account that if the coronal virus epidemic could be said to be a situation that really is an emergency, and extraordinary measures must be taken, and we have seen in the last few weeks that on average, if a dozen people died yesterday, just five people unfortunately lost their lives because of the coronal virus, because of air pollution, which is perhaps the most important cause of climate change, thirty-five Hungarians die every day. So while five people died yesterday because of the coronal virus, 35 people died because of the air pollution. So it would be good if you really did take some real action in this area, too, and I am pleased that there are programmes in which you can make serious progress; I also look forward to the announcement tomorrow. But overall, the government's policy is not considered to be green, but the exact opposite. So unfortunately, they have shown it now, and now Lőrinc Nacsa is not here, but he is perhaps the best example of the cynical attitude that Fidesz-KDNP has shown in relation to the substantive green policy proposals. So, fellow Members, gather yourselves together, read, think, and act out of the responsibility of future generations and citizens living today. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Keresztes applauds Lóran.]]
u2020-05-19-145	Thank you very much, Congressman Tordai. The next speaker is Tamás Herczeg, Member Fidesz.
u2020-05-19-146	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you very much for Lóránt Keresztes because I have been a Member for two years, and this is the first time I have pushed a random button, and in such a debate I will respond to something that will be said. You mentioned that the looting of municipalities is taking place, continues, or I do not know, on this subject. This, I think, is not good because there is, in fact, a professional debate on the scale, and if such political resolutions are to take place, it is not certain that this debate is going in the right direction. But what I mentioned in my first comment, I continue to hold it. For example, Békéscsaba can spend HUF 15 billion on greening public transport, building a solar park out of HUF 15 billion, using geothermal energy to maintain community institutions, and other elements of this complex energy program. That's one thing. And the other is, of course, that the exploitation of plastics was a very high ball or a ban on them. However, I trust with a pious soul, and I have said that this passage is in the action plan from 2021, so from the fact that this debate will not take place tomorrow, I hope that this will take place next year, as it was in this action plan. Then next: your fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, said that he does not understand how this action plan belongs to climate protection. If we take into account the question of energy production, the question of energy use, the question of forestry, the use of wooding, the use of environmentally friendly technologies, the reduction of the share of petrol and diesel vehicles, the introduction of green bonds, if it is spent on climate issues, why this is not related to climate change control or the fight against climate change, then I do not know what is, obviously, what else, but of course, these too. I checked Z. Kárpát Dániel has already gone, there is also an open application on the palyazátihirek.eu website. Here is the GINOP support package, which is 2022, I do not see exactly the date on which to participate in energy applications for individuals or communities, and I would also like to respond to a few other things. Although I am pleased that there is such a much more professional debate now, and it is less offensive than it is in Parliament. But that's pretty much it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Hajdu, a representative of DK. [[18.40]]
u2020-05-19-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The other Members appear here as a proposal for a parliamentary resolution, and I think that it will certainly give us the opportunity, whatever the outcome of the vote is, to keep it on the agenda and to talk about the tasks and tasks that cannot be delayed in the field of environmental protection, sustainable development or climate change. I would also like to comment on this with a few thoughts on behalf of the Democratic Coalition and, as a member of the committee, I mean, a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development. One thing I would like to note is that there are several levels of implementation of sustainable development, so there is a level of government, we always ask for it, but there are also middle levels, and there are whole lower levels, and there are producers, so there are also levels of businesses. When we talk about environmental protection, so important tasks, first of all, I would like to take as an example the issues of sustainable development in the field of production, so that part of the waste is generated in production, or in addition to production, trade, i.e. consumption, and in my comment I mentioned transport, i.e. in these areas, so there are several levels, and when we talk about sustainable development, these should also be mentioned. It is also very important to see how much environmental building and environmental demand is under control at so many levels, and with the fact that there is a State Secretary at ITM from 2018 onwards, it was elsewhere before it, so as the bossship migrates to this management, it does not confirm how much this production is, this sustainable development is under control. And most of all, the main problem is that while there were previously defocused organs, which were enemies of many, but only because they were close to the enforcement levels, and they were able to account for, fine, control, this is not there today. For example, in the case of Budapest, I remember that Érd is assigned to the government office, which is the authority, so everything must be turned to Érd. And if someone wants to make a case, they'll go out to Érd in person with more than one transfer, if they receive him there, and I don't know, about six weeks now is the time to get in there, but if any mayor's office comes in with a letter or an announcement, that's where they'll be dealt with. So there's no control over this. What we are talking about is within the framework of law, currently operating under a level of alkalinized control, which is a fundamental problem of what we are talking about here and what we are taking into account. One can create a local problem primarily because it is authentic: in the downtown city, the underground garage waste, and in the night, I am elected in an outer district, it is my constituency, in a few nights they carried me up to 4-5-6 meters of free land, whose ownership will be settled by a law just in the future, and with the fact that there are share-lands, so there are about a thousand share-owners, none of the owners feel their own, so if they bring something there, they feel no responsibility. About an estimated figure was carried out there, for there was already an estimated 500 and a million cubic meters of land, waste land. There is no man who can ask for this, no court that can touch who the person is, the police don't deal with him, so it's practically possible today to depopulate the environment or uncontrolled material anywhere and lay down that we can't find the person responsible, even if we were able to photograph some cars, film some cars, we have the license plate number, the company has it, there won't be a court order in ten years, and there won't be any compensation. I therefore think that there is a very big problem with the control of conditions today, at least as big a problem as what my fellow Members have raised here. I would like to say two more things that I think are important, all of them said, the Secretary of State mentioned it, but others also mentioned the issue of surface water. This is extremely important. There are surface waters running in open trenches, oil, everything can be poured out and contaminated, which then appear in one of the receivers, from which drinking water is drawn or used for other useful purposes. So pollution is just as uncontrollable, I think. Of course, there are field guards, there are vigilantes, there are various law enforcement officers, there are police, but there is no one who can prevent surface water pollution. The same problem appears, only to a lesser extent, on the issue of good quality drinking water. This is in a slightly better condition, I think, in Hungary, of course, there are regions where even arsenic water flows from the orderly tap, right in Békés county, Member Békéscsaba and its surroundings, and then in every village in the county, even in Csongrád. Rather, if we are to turn to green, the question of this water quality should be used. I don't want to tell you what arsenic water means, and since my time is going to pass, I'm staying with this water and it's closed. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The contest you won is only a certain...
u2020-05-19-149	Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-150	...is available to municipalities, they are labelled applications. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, Congressman János Bencsik.
u2020-05-19-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate in Parliament today is not in vain, as my fellow Member Hajdu has once again said a speech which contains a common point with the framework of government intentions and actions, because that is why the climate and nature conservation action plan includes measures for illegal landfills, and that is why this waste management authority is set up to take measures that are far more effective than those that have been taken so far, so that the illegals cannot escape the commitment on the grounds of law if they are illegally planting waste. The question here is always how the order of government measures needed to solve the problems that Members see well will evolve. In the meantime, our fellow Member, Mr Carpath Z, had to leave, certainly do his official business, but I agree with him that, of course, there is also a need for energy efficiency improvements and investment in the population, but at the same time there is a need, and I will continue to say that there is a need for the renovation of public institutions for energy efficiency, and on this issue, the government has decided to do so in order. I think it was wise to make the most of the added value from the point of view of the Community's benefits by modernising public institutions, saving public funds, saving energy, reducing emissions and improving service, quality and comfort of public services, public services, basically citizens who use these services. And if we come to the end of meeting these obligations, then we also need to turn to the ever wider investment in energy efficiency for the general public, I think that there is no debate between us. [[18.50]] I sometimes sense that the real problem here in Parliament's cooperation and discussion is that on the field table of nature conservation or climate protection, a green car was added to the red car, and then it is a problem why there is not only one small car, there is another car. This is because this is a common field table, we all have our duties and obligations here, we have to consider each other's vehicles, let's say, placed on a field table, regardless of color. I think that's what's happening, not only do I think it's happening, it's actually happening. During today's debate, valuable comments were made on one side and on the other side, and then it turns out that there are overlaps. On the basis of temperament, of course, who is opposition, who is pro-government, it is possible to argue whether these overlaps are in sufficient quantities, in sufficient depth or width. But it is certain that issues will be confirmed here in the proposal for a decision, thanks to the Commission's amendment, which will not support the further deterioration of the natural and environmental state in Hungary, and even if the measures are implemented precisely, they will be mitigated and a positive change in our environmental and natural state can start. For this reason, on behalf of our group, I would like to thank the initiators for the fact that the previous bill, this proposal for a resolution, has also been tabled. I suggest that they accept that there are some other people in the Parliament, we have opinions, we have proposals, of course we want to enforce them, which is why the Commission's amendment was drafted. And then, in the next ordinary session, the final debate will be concluded here, and Parliament will decide that these amendments will be accepted, and, if so, the majority will, in total, support your proposal for a resolution or draft bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-19-153	Thank you, Congressman Benchik. I now give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-05-19-154	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to continue my previous comment in practice. I promise Mr Herczeg that if I cannot respond to all questions in the six minutes, but I will address your questions concerning transport in detail in the related debate tomorrow. Then there will be a time-limited debate, so I can give you the answer in that time frame or in that time frame. I think, in the words of Mr Benchik, that this debate, not only is not harmful, but it is of great importance, so it is important. Definitely a forward-looking debate, obviously more important and better, would be the result of a proposal, a joint adopted proposal, which would also allow meaningful action. But what we have also acknowledged in the general debate is that it is a huge step that we can debate such proposals here in a very, very long time frame. And by the way, I have also spoken with appreciation in the general debate about your speech as a speaker, because I have found a lot of elements that we agree on. There's obviously some mummies or elements we'll never agree to. I would like to draw attention to two things. I have also seen a lot of approaches from Mr Bencsik in this debate as if it could be separated or that there should be a separation of involvement in national and international politics. It is quite clear that here we, all of us, have the task of representing Hungarian national interests and acting in the interests of the Hungarian people, but it is absolutely clear that if we are talking about climate change, if we are talking about such global problems, then it is clear that action, the pursuit of Hungarian national interests, also requires international political action and a global approach. This debate also raised the seriousness of the situation, the urgency of the time, the level of commitments that we must make together in terms of representing Hungarian national interests. This can be supported by mentioning a problem in which I think there is a very broad consensus. In 2015, the migration crisis or migration flows reached the borders of Europe, reached the borders of Hungary, and unfortunately, I have also seen in the European Union that many years have taken us at all to start talking about the root causes. Well, not to mention what action the Hungarian government has shown, poster campaigns and the rest, so we have seen political propaganda for years, and a certain important element was passive protection, strengthening borders, but perhaps now we are going to get there at national level or in international politics, so that we can do anything to ensure the future of all of us if we deal with the reasons. And it can be agreed that climate change, environmental destruction and its effects, i.e. water scarcity, extreme weather conditions, the drastic contraction of the potential for agricultural production, will constantly increase migratory pressure to a brutal extent. Therefore, the Hungarian national interests are also satisfied if we participate as much as possible in the fight against climate change overall, and we are obviously pursuing an international policy in which we are trying to encourage other international partners to do so. But on the other hand, the importance of the case can also be highlighted by a local example. I myself was in a small settlement in Somogy last year in Lakocsa, which experienced quite brutally climate change and its complications. It's not just the temperature, it's the extreme weather conditions, the lightning floods, the storms we've never seen. And what happened there was quite shocking. A so-called super cell struck and caused a storm and devastation that the elderly who lived there could only say they had never seen before. And it was very quickly revealed how defenseless such a small settlement was in the face of such a natural disaster. In fact, half a roof was taken by the storm. No means, no opportunity, no idea where to turn. It can be seen that even the inflexibility or malice of insurance companies has caused enormous damage. So there are very, very many areas to prepare and act on. Even at a level where appropriate protective equipment, protective infrastructure, precipitation water drainage channels need to be updated to update the technical standards that have expired a long time ago and so on. So it requires a very complex approach to this problem, and we say that the effects of this are so serious that an emergency must be declared here, and again I say that, in addition to believing that the wording is absolutely justified, it is, of course, the substance that matters, not what we call a proposal that we accept, but what action it will then induce. And back then, which I could no longer address in relation to the minority opinion of the Legislative Committee, well, what we see is that this climate strategy is basically built around the use of nuclear energy and the expansion of Paks, and is trying to legitimise in some way the project of the Paks expansion, which was otherwise rejected by the majority of the population. However, we cannot agree with this, and obviously there is no way to start a debate here on why nuclear energy is not green, but I would like to make a few points. It is perfectly clear, and you can see this, everyone who has been to the west of Pécs or the area of Pécs, how brutal, unrecoverable, environment-destructive uranium mining involves. And these two activities are linked. That's a moral question. If we know precisely that the effects of this can not be dealt with, because it will never be an end in continuing this recultivation activity, then how can we invest if all other aspects are even set aside in nuclear energy? But on the other hand, it is a question of the disposal of nuclear waste, of its disposal; on the other hand, the Secretary of State knows that nowhere in the world this issue is solved. No storage facility was built for the permanent disposal of high-activity nuclear waste. There is no technological solution, nowhere they have been able to find a reassuring solution for funding, neither in Hungary nor in Hungary, there are well-established procedures for choosing locations. So, specifically, in energy policy, the future of the nation is built by the government, and by the end of which, at the dirty end, there is no solution anywhere in the world. This is why we are saying that nuclear energy is not green and it is not predictable, it is not safe, and therefore we regret endlessly that we have practically forced the pro-government position into the proposal for a resolution that we have tabled, and it is therefore unacceptable for us. Thank you.
u2020-05-19-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, the debate is closed, and I give the floor to the representative of the government, Mr Secretary of State, who has ten minutes to spare in two seconds.
u2020-05-19-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start by saying that the current text of the proposal for a decision from the government reflects what the government considers to be possible and appropriate to implement in the next period in the field of climate protection. [[19.00]] So, overall and very briefly, I can say that we are asking Members from the government to adopt this proposal for a resolution. In addition to this short and sombre opinion, allow me to comment on a few further points of the very in-depth debate. One of the issues that has been given special attention to today's meeting, which can be considered as a professional debate, is the issue of energy efficiency and, in particular, the question of energy efficiency specifically relating to the modernisation of residential and buildings. Here much has been said about preferences and order, and why it was appropriate to start this programme with the question of public institutions. Let me mention, however, that when we talk about the need to renovate, in particular, that we should do a deep renovation of the Hungarian housing stock, the result of a very short calculation is that if there are 3 million private apartments and a real, deep renovation in a Hungarian residential building costs about HUF 10 million, we are talking about a simple multiplication of HUF 30 000 billion. This contrasts with the amount of aid that we expect directly from the European Union in the energy and climate area, which is HUF 570 billion for the entire seven-year period, over the next seven-year EU budget period. Now we're counting about this corner number. So HUF 570 billion in seven years, as opposed to the HUF 30 000 billion resource requirement, which would target the refurbishing of the entire building stock. So the simple scale also means that we are dealing with a huge task here, where priorities need to be set, and I would like to stress that there are still several programmes in place where renovations are actually taking place. Otherwise, we prefer programs where the homeowners themselves are willing to bear the burden and effort to make investments that increase the conditions and value of their own apartments, including their market value. The construction we call a residential energy efficiency programme is currently open at the Development Bank and behind which the economic development innovation programme has been supported by more than HUF 100 billion in recent years, which has enabled residents who are willing to invest themselves in renewable energy use and energy efficiency to receive a virtually free loan. This program is going on and on as we speak. In the region outside the central region, if I remember correctly, there is still a budget of HUF 26 billion, which is also ongoing. We have just proposed to reopen this programme in the Central Hungary region, because the epidemiological situation in Europe has made it possible to transfer more easily, and because the programme is exhausted there, it is so popular, we are working on reopening it. So I think that the government should be helped by those who see fit and can devote themselves to it, so that we can help them to implement these modernisations themselves. As regards the general incentive for energy efficiency measures, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in the national energy and climate plan, which we have announced to the European Commission, the promotion of energy efficiency is a priority, if I may say, a flagship project for this strategy and not with a narrow incentive system for housing, but with a tool that is the main and proposed instrument of European regulation, namely: the introduction of a so-called energy efficiency obligation system, which would primarily burden the major polluters or major players in the energy sector, so that they would have a type of obligation that they would be obliged to achieve, and this would encourage very significant energy efficiency investments not only in the building stock, but also in all areas of the economy and economy. So what I really want to emphasise here is that we are dealing with a very high-profile problem with scarce resources, and the setting of priorities is extremely important, and I would like to point out that, therefore, when we tell large companies about the involvement of the polluter-pays principle in the operation of this system, it is currently taking place. There may be a press release about this tomorrow, so I'm not going to tell you a secret, for example, today there was a discussion on this issue with potential stakeholders in the Ministry. Let me answer one more question here on nuclear energy and energy security. So it is a general problem when we want to link the energy strategy with the climate strategy in some way because we can't do anything else, because it is the biggest polluting sector that we are dealing with, that in general, energy production is all kinds of good for us, because there is energy that we can use, it pollutes our environment, but if we pull everything out of the list, then there will be nothing left in the end, and then there will be no electricity. So if we say that nuclear power is not good, and we have to shut it down, we can't use nuclear energy, and if we say that, and, of course, climate protection, obviously, we tell us how to drive coal and lignite-based power generation out of the system, so we shut down the nuclear power plant, shut down the lignite power plant, then what's left? Solar energy right now, and a little bit of renewable energy and natural gas. Natural gas can increase our vulnerability, and solar and natural gas together provide a rather unstable background to energy security. So what we see is that as we move towards climate protection goals, this is worth doing carefully, and energy security aspects must not be set aside on the road. With regard to the problem of waste, nuclear waste and the management of high-activity waste, I would like to draw attention to a development where the government is, by the way, trying to support research that is leading at virtually global level. In this context, so-called transmutation experiments are currently under way at the Szeged laser research institute, which have begun to serve to reduce their half-life drastically instead of direct disposal of high-activity waste. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a leading research in Hungary on a global energy and sector-wide unresolved problem that is trying not only to help Hungary but also to bring this issue closer to the earth for every country that uses nuclear energy. So this is a very complex issue. That's all I wanted to say in addition. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-157	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the authors, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP. Team Leader, three minutes and 33 seconds.
u2020-05-19-158	Thank you, Mr President, and I am already trying not to take these three minutes. I think that this debate was of great importance, and it is certainly surprising, and in itself it was a positive development that this debate could start in Parliament, and in December last year the Parliament took these two proposals into consideration. [[19.10]] And even if we did not succeed in reaching a consensus, I say that this was of great importance. I think it was one of the great results of this debate that we started working on a map of such a problem together and putting on the table the huge challenges that we are facing, even if we see differently the importance of the urgency or depth of our own actions in this respect. What is a little lack for me, everyone has acknowledged that this is a complex problem, and it is not possible to deal with climate change and sustainability in itself, so this requires a fundamental economic policy approach, so obviously the three spheres, society, the economy and the environment can only be interpreted as a single system, and unfortunately we have talked little about the fundamental shift in economic policy that is needed in order to talk about these issues at all in reality, that we need to install huge energy-intensive assembly plants in Hungary, and to do so, we need to provide brutal energy-producing capacities, or we need to start investing more in human capital, and we need to pursue a much higher added value and much more sustainable economic policy. Obviously, we have huge debates with the government in this regard, and obviously this is linked to the question of reducing energy use and the question of energy efficiency. Obviously, this is a very, very important step, also from an energy policy perspective. It has also been an important step forward in this debate that we have identified specific challenges and tried, or even managed to put the scale on the table, of the enormous resources required by building energy modernisation. But one more thing, Congressman Benchik mentioned what a treasure clean drinking water is. Indeed, life itself is pure drinking water, but for example, there is a number of ways to produce the 3000 billion forints needed within 15 years, which is needed to ensure that water utility services work, so we can protect the drinking water bases. This is an unsolved, huge problem ahead of us. Obviously, this is why we regret the fact that such sums, HUF 1000 billion, would have been used for an incomprehensible investment; instead of investing the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, it would have been better for everywhere else, but this debate has already been closed. Overall, I would also like to thank everyone who participated in this debate on behalf of the authors, and I think that we have taken a big step forward, at least on these issues, that we have been able to have a little, hardly political, much more professional debate, and we hope that sooner or later we will come to proposals that will actually end in a series of actions that will meet the gravity of the challenges that we are all facing. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-159	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the proposal to amend individual laws in the context of the promotion of adoptions will follow. Government referral T/10516. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Philip, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2020-05-19-160	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, A strong nation can only be built on strong families, which is why the government is committed to helping and strengthening families. This retention community is particularly important in the socialisation of children. This safe and sustainable community has the right of a child not only because of international agreements or Hungarian legislation, but also because of our moral responsibility. Today, 23 thousand children live in child protection institutions or foster parents in Hungary. We've come a long way lately. Last year, we drew attention to children who do not have a peaceful family environment, and to foster parents who accept them into their own families, but still try to provide this environment to these troubled children. However, foster care can only be a bridge to a child's life, a temporary stop, since the goal is either to return the child to his restored biological family or to be in good hands forever, or to adoptive parents. As of 1 January this year, we have introduced several incentive subsidies to assist adoption. Such support is the adoptive fee, which, in the case of the adoption of a child over 2 years of age, is granted to the adopter for 168 days according to the conditions and amount of the child. If you do not have the insurance period required for your child, you can use an adoptive child for the adoption of a child over the age of 3 for a maximum period of six months. All of this gives adoptives the opportunity to stay at home with the adopted child during the first six months in order to build and strengthen the parent-child relationship. This is also supported by the provision that maternity allowance may be used in the event of adoption regardless of the age of the child. Dear House, We have come to strengthen another very important pillar of the child protection system. We want to achieve three objectives in the current amendment of the adoption process: to make adoption simpler; to make adoption faster; and to give applicants for adoption more help and opportunities. All these changes were an inextricable and crystal clear starting point, so that when these goals came into legal form, the best interests and the future of the children to be adopted would be the primary consideration. The focus of the proposed legislation is therefore primarily on the aspects of the child being protected, so that this goal, the right to a safe family environment, can be achieved as soon as possible. Dear House, These principles and objectives will be followed by the amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code and the Law on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration and other relevant laws in this bill. The main points of substance of the bill can be summarised in three points: on the one hand, measures to facilitate the adoption of children and, on the other hand, changes to adopters and, on the third, facilitations following adoption. Staying on the first subject, I would like to point out, for the first time, that if the parent does not have a relationship with his biological child at all, the current 6 months as a condition for adoption will be reduced to 3 months. In the event that such contact is irregular, the period after which the child can be declared eligible for adoption will be reduced from 1 to 8 months. With this amendment, we can ensure that the child can become adopted sooner if his or her biological parents neglect him. Secondly, it is a significant change that the period of temporary placement, calculated from the date on which the child was removed from the family, is included in the period necessary for the adoption of the child. This allows the adoption of the child as early as possible if the legal conditions are met. Third. The scope of adoption increases from 2 to 4 years, reducing the number of possible extension procedures, reducing administrative burdens. And fourthly, in order for the child to be adopted as soon as possible, the summary opinion of the expert committee on child protection required for preparation will be prepared in parallel to the adoption process. The second round includes measures that affect the adoption of measures. First of all, good news for them is that it will be helpful for those who want to adopt them to be free from work for up to 10 days a year during a sensitive period of familiarity with the child. The worker shall be exempt from the obligation to work on the basis of evidence from the adoption assistance organisation at the time of his request. The employee will have to inform the employer of the use at least 5 working days earlier. [[19.20]] Secondly, the amendment provides more opportunities for older adopters if the adoptable child has reached the age of three. The general rule is that so far the maximum age difference between the child and the adoptive ones has been 45 years, with this amendment increasing the age of 45 years to 50 years for the child aged 3 years. So this is not a general rule, it only exists for children over three years of age, that is, older children. Thirdly, it may be a decision-making relief that the adoption course which is currently required to be carried out during the eligibility procedure will be made available voluntarily on the basis of the decision of the applicant to adopt it. Fourthly, the consequences of incorrect reporting on the part of those who wish to adopt them are tightened. This means that if the applicant for adoption provides incorrect data, it may lead to a refusal or revision of his/her suitability. Finally, the facilitations following adoption. Firstly, the Minister of Human Resources shall provide specific support to public benefit organisations holding an operating licence to follow-up the adoption. This is now part of the amended Child Protection Act, which lays down a legal guarantee to finance the tasks of these organisations. On the other hand, if parents of Hungarian nationality wish to adopt a foreign child, the modified law gives a discount compared to the current one, so that the minor non-Hungarian citizen who was adopted will be able to be introduced at a reduced rate on request. Dear House, With the adoption of this bill, the most important thing is that children can enter a secure adoptive family more quickly. The preparation of adoptions will be more effective and smoother, the administrative burden for adoption will be reduced, and regulatory clarification will prevent situations of legal uncertainty. The submitted law expands the range of family-friendly measures taken by the government since 2010. Its purpose is to help children who are not given the opportunity to grow up in their biological families and to make it easier for those who want to take these children into their families forever. In view of all this, I would like your support for the amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-161	Thank you very much, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, Now, with the 15-minute timeframes, the keynote speakers will take place. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-19-162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of our country, in the chapter "Liberty and Responsibility," Section XVI. Article 1 (1) states that all children have the right to the protection and care necessary for their proper physical, mental and moral development, which should serve as guidance for all Members of Parliament when drawing up lower-level legislation. The purpose of the legislative amendment we are discussing today, with which we agree that adoption should be more effective, faster, smoother, and that the persons planning adoption and the children awaiting adoption should be able to find each other as quickly as possible. From the data published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, it can be concluded that between 2010 and 2018 the number of completed adoptions increased by 36 percent, from 735 to 1000. Most of the growth is due to the adoption of children in child protection care, most of which are secret adoptions, up 49 percent, from 443 to 659. In recent years, between 1200 and 1400 new applications have been submitted each year for adoption, for which couples count as one applicant. The number of people who wish to adopt has increased significantly in recent years, by around 90 percent since 2010. The competence assessment and the guardianship procedure should apply without discrimination, i.e. discrimination according to religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, disability, property, birth or other situations. When choosing prospective adoptive recipients, it is of primary importance that they are expected to be able to create a family background for the child in the long term, based on their personality and circumstances, and the most favourable conditions for development. The adoption is intended to ensure the replacement care of the child in the most appropriate way. In order to make raising in a loving family and thus the conditions for quality living available to as many children as possible, it is essential to amend the current adoption rules. With this proposal, therefore, the government aims to simplify the rules of the adoption procedure, thereby increasing the number of successful adoptions, which will always be done with the interests of children in mind. So this is the government's goal, and the Fidesz fraction agrees and supports it. The bill would introduce the following amendments, which we support: measures to facilitate the adoption of children include a change that is relevant for the adoption of the child, that the duration of temporary placement is included in the period necessary for the adoption of the child, which should be calculated from the date of its withdrawal from the family of the child. This will allow the adoption of the child's condition to be assessed by the guardianship authority from the time it is removed from the family, which will facilitate the adoption of the child at the earliest possible age if the legal conditions are met. This will be available by amending the Child Protection Act. In the event of a complete lack of parental contact, as Mr. Secretary of State said in his expozee, the current half-year period as a condition for adoption will be reduced to 3 months, from 1 to 8 months in the case of irregular contacts, so that the child can be adopted earlier in the case of the relative behaviour of the parent. The scope of adoption increases from 2 to 4 years, reducing the number of possible extension procedures, thus reducing administrative burdens. We also agree with these, and we support them. The preparation of the summary opinion of the Paediatric Protection Expert Committee for the preparation of the child's adoption as soon as possible will also reduce the duration of the preparation of the adoption of the child in parallel with and not after the declaration procedure. We support that, too. The other large group, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is the changes affecting those who wish to adopt. From the point of view of those who wish to adopt them, it is more stringent that they should provide appropriate information in their circumstances to the child protection services and the guardian's office. That was the point in the expozee, we consider this amendment, this tightening up very important and we support it. Failure to do so shall be assessed in the establishment of an opinion on suitability. [[19.30]] Thus, failure to identify real circumstances on the part of those who wish to adopt may lead to a refusal to establish the suitability for adoption or, later on, to a review of their suitability. It may be easier for those who wish to adopt it, that the adoption course currently required to be carried out during the eligibility procedure, which is intended to help prepare for adoption, will also be made available voluntarily by the Secretary of State. We support the voluntary commitment to complete this course, and it is likely that we would like to present an amendment to this point with KDNP. Adopters are assisted by a maximum of 10 days of work exemption per year during a sensitive period of familiarity with the child. The worker shall be exempt from the obligation to work on the basis of a certificate issued by the adoption organisation at the time of his request, within 90 days of the date of issue. The employee must inform the employer of the use at least 5 working days earlier. The amendment provides a wider opportunity for older adopters: if the adoptable child is 3 years of age, the age difference between the adoptive parent and the child's age will be 50 years instead of 45 years. This has been said in the expozee, and we support this proposal, because there have been a lot of requests to increase the age difference here to 50 years instead of 45 years. The facilitations following adoption belong to the third large group. For minor children adopted by parents of Hungarian nationality, the amendment provides for an additional discount compared to the current one: it is in the interest of the adopted child to obtain the same nationality as its parents of Hungarian nationality as easily as possible through the adoption recognised in Hungary, so that the minor non-Hungarian citizen who has been adopted may be admitted at a reduced rate upon request. And one very important thing: in this case, however, the condition of naturalisation is that the person concerned has no criminal record under Hungarian law, and when assessing the application, there is no criminal prosecution before a Hungarian court, and there should be no ongoing or naturalisation of Hungary's public security and national security. The Minister of Human Resources provides individual support for the implementation of their duties to public benefit organisations with an operating permit, as we have heard in the Expoze, which is otherwise enshrined in the amended Child Protection Act, thus providing legal guarantees to finance the tasks of these organisations; we support this. In our view, the proposal regulates the issues involved in the transformation in the interests of the children, so that the changes that will benefit both the persons planning the adoption and the children awaiting adoption can take place with sufficient certainty. In view of the above, we see that the government is also committed to providing legal conditions, opportunities for more children to grow up in loving families within a reasonable period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention and for your support for the proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-163	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-19-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is always a pleasure to have such a positive proposal before the House in relation to the family, the child and the raising of children, but before I get to the presentation of the bill and the presentation of our opinion, I have two comments. One of them: not underestimated, sorry, Attila Fülöp State Secretary, but I would very much like for Secretary of State Katalin Novák to take part in this, and she is the State Secretary for Family Policy and Youth, and I think that this is an important bill that we have here in the House, that we would have liked her to come and tell us this exposé. Secondly, I have not heard either in the State Secretary's Expo or in the presentation and keynote speech of my fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, who has said several times in his speech before or after the agenda that my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, has played a crucial role in this proposal before the House, and I believe that there is a need to facilitate the procedure for adoption. And the fact that we can discuss this here today, I think it is also his merit, which we thank for, because in order for children to be in a loving family, this is an important step. Yes, as you have said, Mr Secretary, there are important relief steps in this bill. However, I would like to mention one thing, which, I think, is definitely worth considering and considering. This is an exemption from compulsory training, i.e. that these courses will become voluntary. I was given the opportunity to have two children, but to add that there are many, thousands of children who want a loving family, and when an adoptive parent, a couple, decides that they want to have a child in their family, then this course can provide a help that will help them later to live together, to be accepted into the family. These courses have been mandatory so far. If they are already voluntary, may it reduce administration, might it speed up reception, but is this a good step? Are you sure you have to take this out and you won't have to? Because I think that the things that are said in these courses are very important for families to really prepare. And yes, as it is in the bill, you are amending several laws, and one of them is that you will have 10 days off work for families to prepare and get to know the children who are about to be adopted as much as possible. This is a very important step, because we know that it is necessary to travel far, miles away, so that the child can be contacted, and by the time the child becomes part of the family, they will be able to establish the best possible relationship, the deeper the relationship. Of course, it is important for children to grow up in a loving family, and to do so, the eligibility criteria must also be set up as stated in the expozee, and there will be changes in this. So it is important to give children the opportunity to become a loving family, and it is important that those who desire to be adopted get the best possible access to it, but the children's aspects must be taken into account first. I am pleased that my colleague Gabriella Selmeczi said that an amendment will be tabled, and I will be curious to know what it will be. I trust that with these easier procedures, more people will find a loving family. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-165	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anita Potocsányi Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-05-19-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This bill is a great pleasure, I think, perhaps for all of us who are sitting here; I hope that will come out later, but that is what I hope for. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, that the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is the administrative part of this, and although a joint proposal is obviously made by Mrs Katalin Novák, State Secretary for Family Affairs, because she belongs to social policy, that is why Mr State Secretary is sitting here, and I think that this is correct. [[19.40]] In our Christian Democratic view, all children should preferably be in the family. We see the family as a community, the smallest community in society, which must be protected, strengthened, supported, helped, and which is a community of value and value. And we think that family is one of them, if not the best way to live for people. The Hungarian government has been committed to Hungarian families since 2010. We have doubled the budget for family support, which we are keeping even in the current crisis, contrary to the usual practice on the left when we were taken from families in times of crisis. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This year's budget for 2020 exceeds HUF 2200 billion in support of families. This is an almost two-and-a-half-fold increase compared to 2010. The Hungarian family support policy is a joint success. In recent years, she has achieved such successes that the number of marriages over a year has not been as high in 40 years as in 2019, and the number of divorces has not been as low as last year for 60 years. As a committed pro-life representative, I consider it a particularly joyful trend that the number of abortions has decreased by 36 percent since 2010. Children who cannot live with their biological parents or are deprived of their family environment are provided by the Hungarian State. There are 23,000 children in the Hungarian child protection system, the aim is to make sure that as many of them grow up in a family environment as possible. This was the case with the steps that have been taken to strengthen the foster care system and to further strengthen adoption. On average, thousands of adoptions take place in Hungary each year. The aim of the current bill is to allow the number of adoptions to continue to increase, and therefore the current long and perhaps excessively bureaucratic adoption rules need to be amended and reduced. It is very important that this does not mean a reduction in guarantees, because guarantees, ensuring the good place of the child, have always been a necessary process, none of these guarantees are taken away by the law, but can only shorten the time that is now a little longer by means of different deadlines and parallel processes. We believe that each child has the best place in the family, so the clear aim of the current amendment is to make adoption more efficient, secure and faster. The adoption process will thus be simpler, and it will be possible to adopt it in nine months. Also shortened is the declaration of adoption: in the event of total lack of parental contact, the current half-year period as a condition for adoption will be reduced to three months, from one year to eight months in the event of irregular contact. Thus, the child may become adopted earlier in the event of the parent's liable conduct. The current proposal also helps to exempt working parents from work ten days after adoption, thus facilitating the difficult and sensitive initial period of the child's integration into the new family. It is very important that, as a result of such a decision, we pay attention not only to the child, but also to the adoptive parents, as we can often forget about this side, but also to thank them, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, pay attention to them, whether by training or following them, or by providing them with a care that understands that adoption, which is obviously joyful, puts them in a position that is worth preparing for and in which it is worth providing them with help. The bill includes an increase in the possible age difference between adoptive and children in order to increase the number of potential adoptives. Not as a general rule, but so far the maximum difference between the age of the child and his adoptive could be 45 years, which the current proposal would raise to 50 for children over three years of age. The starting point and the main objective of the bill is the physical, psychological, legal safety and protection of children, the children's place in a loving, caring family, and therefore the aim is to build and further strengthen family-based child protection in Hungary. We are looking at a very important step here. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2020-05-19-167	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-19-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I'm especially glad you're here as a man's secretary of state. Maybe we should talk to men about problems like this more. I am very happy with this amendment of the law. Years ago, when I was in Parliament, I was very happy to talk more and more about the fertility problem, because that is the prelude to adoption in most cases. Although I might add that I have a little fear, because after I felt that the subject of the flask had come to the fore, that we might be able to achieve success and that there might be positive legislative changes in the governing party, we can see that not everything was as successful as it should have been, even in the flask program. And I hope that this amendment of the law is more of a reflection of good intentions. And I predict that we will vote on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, although we will submit three amendments to the amendment. I hope that the Secretary-General will see the constructive nature of these amendments and will take a positive approach. But let me tell you in advance that we too are positive, because we also say that we need to make adoption easier, and the goal is to get more children in good family conditions as soon as possible. First of all, I would say that the bill describes with surprising honesty the need to support civil society organisations and public benefit associations that support adoption. We will present our first amendment to this, so that it is not judged on the basis of ministerial individual support, but on the basis of a central distribution, so as not to suggest that one civil society organisation is a little more nicer to the government number, while the other one is not, but rather, if this organisation, foundation, civil society organisation is actually helping the adoption, then it can be done on a normative basis or on a tender basis, they do not need to receive money on an individual basis. It is very important to support these organisations, because the previous speakers have already said that it is very difficult to get to the point where you face the fact that you cannot have a child of your own or decide to have a child of your own. So it is very difficult for these families to get to the point where they have to give up being able to have their own child and not adopt a biological child, and this must be supported by all means, whether through the signalling system or through such professional organisations. Even after this happens, it is very important that these families have a follow-up. And not just the child itself, but also the adoptives, the father and mother, I think, should be supported by all means afterwards. Let us talk about the course; to this end, let us present our next amending proposal that this training should not be abolished. Allow me to read on the Hintalov Children's Rights Foundation's Facebook page the following entry, which also highlights the parts in question besides the positive elements: It could be used on a voluntary basis in the future. Many think that if normal parents do not need a course to have children, then why should an adoptive parent do so? In fact, the adoption, while it is beautiful, is a very, very difficult process. And this course has given us the opportunity to answer questions for adoptive parents, which we say, only professionals can tell or families who have been through these processes. I think that it should be helped to ensure that these parents are free of charge rather than costing money. And I don't think it's necessary to give it up, but to support it by all means, so that more people may attend or spend as much time as possible in these courses. [[19.50]] The obligation to tell the truth, which they say is that they will pay more attention, we do not understand this very much, because the filter that the adoptive parents have been through has been strong enough. This is what we are talking about, how long it took for the government to want to shorten it. We do not understand, and Mr Secretary of State will explain this, because families have had to undergo enough serious tests to get into the category of adoption in the end. And that, in essence, was the reason why it was very rare that a child could be brought home even when he was a baby, because it was a very long time for these tests to be carried out, for an education, and after that, when the child could be given to the family. It is very important that we also need to talk about the need to look at a lot of laws about why children are going to institutions, how they get to the point of highlighting them from the family. We know very well that the Child Protection Act provides that today, in Hungary, it is not supposed to be possible to rip the child out of the family for poverty reasons, and we also know from the data that to date thousands of children are being ripped away every year for this reason alone. Not because the parent does not like it, not because the child is abused, not because they do not want to raise it, but simply because of its financial circumstances, they do not allow him to raise the child under such circumstances and therefore highlight the child from a loving family. We have also talked about this more and more about what steps the government should take to ensure that this happens as little as possible. The government has failed to do so in recent years. Because we agree that it is very, very important to pay attention to the fundamental fact that the child, where he is born, should grow up. And the government's job is to do everything in its power to support childbearing, and with the means to get a job, to get a decent wage for his work, and then, of course, to provide and raise the child as we would expect from families. We talk a lot about how the signalling system should work in Hungary, how the protective network should work, why we should get to the point where they finally highlight the child, why they don't realize that there is a problem in the family sooner, and why we don't give help when we're pregnant with the child, and we get to the point where it doesn't happen that we have to take the child away, we have to break the child out of the family. And then they draw attention to very, very serious problems: how many women are missing in Hungary today mainly in rural areas, how many pediatricians are missing, how much psychologists would be needed, and then we can open a very serious debate about what the government should be paying attention to. It is also very important to say that when we talk about age limits, they increase the age limit of parents in adoption, that today we see in Hungary that, as I understand it, children over 6 years of age, but children over 12 years of age, are absolutely no longer adopted. And then we could open up the debate on the parentage of the child, the disadvantage of a child of Roma origin, the chances of adopting a child when he has reached a certain age, and it is welcome to reduce the time to make it as little as possible. There are a lot of things that the government should do to really reduce the number of children in institutions and to put fewer and fewer children in a position where no one will adopt them in the end and grow up never to experience in life what kind of loving family they are in. I very much hope that our amendments will be considered through Mr Secretary of State. I understand that my fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, has also tabled or submitted the same amendments. I hope that they will take into account that we were really motivated by the intention to improve on this subject by the opposition, and that anyone who knows, or perhaps even knows, or is involved in, this matter, will accept that he can speak truthfully, and that all means must be used to support these families, who decide at the end of the day to adopt a child, and that children who are in such a situation can find a loving family as soon as possible. So we are in any way in favour of this initiative. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-19-169	Thank you very much, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-19-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is certainly an honor to be able to represent DK's opinion in amending such a law, even because I am the head of a happy and loving family, and unfortunately, it is also in my circle of friends, who certainly did not know his own child, so he is in a difficult situation. In fact, there are some who adopt a child and are now happy to raise him. There is no doubt that the legislative amendment before us would simplify and speed up the adoption process on a number of points, so the Democratic Coalition supports this bill on a number of issues. However, the fundamental element of our family policy is that children should be raised in families and not in institutions, therefore, while a significant part of the changes are, in our view, eligible and good direction in reducing the administration of adoption and speeding up the process, there are still a few issues that we need to address. We are aware that, under the current rules, the adoption process is going to take a very long time, even months and years, which, in our opinion, is untenable, and therefore, in our view, the objective pursued by the bill is also eligible. However, we lack provisions on the elimination of material discrimination for adopters from the bill. At present, many of the multimillion-dollar family allowances are only for adoptive infants, but those who adopt larger children are likely to be left out of these subsidies, at least in accordance with the current amendments. I would like to mention this later. I'd like to point out the 5th and 6th. The amendments to the Act on the Protection of Children state that specific support can be provided for public benefit organisations promoting open adoption and following adoption, but my fellow Members have also talked about this. This is a welcome thing in itself, and we would even support it, but it is the Minister's decision in one person to give whom and how much support, knowing that, and now I apologize to everyone for the government's relationship to public funds, unfortunately, for the abuse or suspicion of it; all the more so, because the proposal does not provide for the conditions and details of the granting of the aid. However, Article 8 shall apply. The adoption course, which everyone here has talked about almost before me and I think that it will be followed by me, so the completion of the course will be voluntary instead of the mandatory requirement so far. However, the Democratic Coalition does not agree with any reduction in the conditions of eligibility for adoption, and therefore we do not support the abolition of the mandatory nature of the 40-hour course. The interestingness of this amendment, and I would go further, also shows some kind of haste of the creators of the law, which may characterize every step of the Orbán government in recent times, as if there were no passage in time or space between the elements of the system, the ideas and actions of the legislators. The mandatory adoption course was introduced in 2003 but in 2018 the curriculum was extended from 21 to 40 hours, and now, in just two years' time, it is considered unnecessary in 2020 and the obligation of this kind is condemned to death. [[20.00]] We are convinced that the abolition and optional option of a compulsory course is not supported by any professional argument, reason or reason, and therefore, in my opinion, I apologise for it, supposedly, was born behind the desk of one of the ministries, without a special impact assessment before it, which will cause a great deal of harm and suffering for the later adopted children and the adoptive families. There is no doubt that the question arises when children are educated, educated, or are students of kindergartens, kindergartens or any educational institution, they can only be done by qualified teachers after years of studies and successful exams, then why does the legislator think that all of this can be done in the case of adopted children without any preparation, knowledge, experience. Why does someone think that this can become a success? Why does the law consider it unnecessary to raise a little life, an adopted child, but let us put it bravely, and give his life into the hands of foster parents with sufficient preparation and ability? The question is whether you or I, or any of us here, would have your child enrolled in a school where untrained, perhaps unfit, educators and teachers deal with the child. Or would you hand me a car in the hands of a man who didn't have an M.E.S.E., and I apologize to everyone, is that a very professional metaphor, or even an auxiliary motor-wheel party who hadn't passed an M.E.S.A., technical or traffic skills test before? It's not, is it? I didn't! Why, then, do we not consider fitness to be important when raising a child? In particular, we are all aware that we are talking about children who, unfortunately, or at least most likely have not lived on the sunny side of life; those who, for some reason, have not been given the opportunity to live in a loving, careful, biological family, many of them have suffered many traumas and disappointments; those who may have come from foster parents or foster homes. Now what I'm saying may be a little weird, because everyone knows that raising a child is one of the greatest joys, but also the greatest responsibility. Raising a child is not a computer game from which we can quit at any time, or if we have done anything wrong, we can always start again by pressing an Escape button. In addition, in the case of adopted children, I think this is exponentially true, because if an adoption fails, if anyone is unprepared and full of unfounded illusions, we will disappoint not only the adopted child, but probably also the adoptive family. The course that has been mandatory and extended from 21 to 40 hours in 2018 has been of great help. In bringing possible pink dreams, overthinking ideas and reality, reality into line somewhere; in order to teach adoption families at all that the development and education of such children who have already been traumatized in a small part of the cases depends on the environment around them, how to handle adoption, how to be honest about such matters. Because it cannot be a coincidence that since the introduction and compulsoryization of the course in 2003, the quality of domestic adoption has changed radically. While, before the turn of 2003, the then adopted families generally kept silent, or at least for many years, to inform the adopted child that they had indeed been adopted, that is no longer the case today. This is clearly due to the existence and a kind of success of courses. The potential failure of adoptions, the avoidance of tragic, misguided lives from this, was one of the most important aims of the mandatory training courses that we are about to throw away. The courses clearly helped to prepare the adoptives and measure their suitability now, which in the long term can also greatly contribute to the development of the character of the adopted child. And there is no doubt that these courses cost money, but it is also almost certain that in the event that the training course is no longer required, many people are not expected to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the course, simply to save some money on this. However, in a short period of time, I fear that it can massify failed adoptions. And now allow me to quote a few quotes I found on the Internet regarding the existence of courses. D. Hanna writes: "I was able to witness the trauma of the child at close range when it was found out that they had not told him the truth, like who his parents were, and where he came from. The most important point of the process was worth more than any other mandatory bureaucratic element in this. B. Alexandra:. We have recently completed the course, and I think it is essential for preparation for adoption and for later. If they had given us the chance not to go, we probably wouldn't have been involved, and that would have been a very, very bad thing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is almost certain that if the current draft is adopted, there will be significantly fewer people attending 60-80 thousand HUF courses per person, and there is a fear that the willingness to participate will be reduced among those who really needed the help and preparation of professionals. Abolishing the obligation of courses can save some money for adoptive families, perhaps even speed up the process of adoption by a few weeks in optimal cases, but we will still lose a lot more than we gain, as it is almost certain that it will increase the possibility of conflicts within such families and the number of adopted or seriously problematic ones. I would like to join the solo before me here: if we really want to improve the process of adoption, motivate, help adoptive parents, remove financial burdens from their shoulders, then it is more worthwhile to consider reducing the fee for compulsory courses or even the total exemption from fees than to eliminate the compulsory nature of the course. Unfortunately, the fact that most of the multimillion-dollar family support that I have been talking about at the beginning is only for adoptive parents, but those who adopt a larger child are likely to be left out of the present situation, unfortunately this is preserved by the practice known so far that parents wishing to adopt babies prefer adoption. Thus, children who have been outside the focus of interest for the time being have hardly any chance of becoming a loving, caring family and growing up there. For them, the institution remains, with all its consequences. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the family policy of the Democratic Coalition is fundamental to raising children in families and not in institutions. Therefore, a significant part of the changes are, in our view, eligible, a good direction in reducing the administration of adoption and speeding up the process. However, we will in no way support the abolition of the mandatory nature of the 40-hour course, and indeed the Democratic Coalition does not agree with any reduction in the conditions of eligibility for adoption. Thank you so much for listening, and I'm sorry if I've been a little long. Thank you.
u2020-05-19-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP, Mrs Krisztina Hohn, is next. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-172	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have thought a lot about the speeches here, listening to how to begin this speech, because I am involved as an adoptive parent, and, yes, thank you very much to Anita for remembering that it started somewhere, and yes, I have taken my proposals to the State Secretary, not through ParLex, as I mentioned earlier, but in person, and a number of them are thanking me back from this proposal, which is in this bill. Some things, I think, I would like to approach from a more practical point of view, and I would like to say that if we were now in an ideal parliament, there would be no party political phrases or anything like that, and I don't know what it is on the right side. That's all right, you said it yourself, you don't need this. I think that this bill is an important milestone in this regard, and I am very pleased that it has come here. But I think some of the concepts should be clarified, because we may not all be aware of that. Until I became an adoptive parent, I guess I didn't know what relationships meant either. Many have criticized comments and all sorts of other ways why this is involved, that six months have been reduced to three months, and the rest, what is contact, so what is contact. [[20.10]] A simple Messenger message or a telephone interest is enough, and it's already extended for 3 months. Three to six months in a small child's life is a terrible long time, and the child simply grows old. I know this sounds funny, but it's the truth. So zero-year-old becomes 1, 2, 3, 4, and finally gets stuck in the system, which is not good for anyone, because there is no stability in the child's life, because the word "adaptation" means adoption. The adoptive family becomes the same as a normal, like a biological family, it has to become one. But so far, it's not always easy, it's not as smooth and full of flowers. It's not a noble act. We simply want a child, the child wants a parent, wants security, stability, and thus, through adoption, it is created. However, it is important, by the way, I agree with most of the law, except for one thing, and I definitely think it should be supported. I don't want to imagine any NER and I don't know what. I am in good faith, and I believe that this is in the interest of the children. I hope that this will be confirmed by my pro-government fellow Members or even by the rapporteur. But we need to talk about the course so they can understand what a course is. Abolishing the courses would be the world's greatest fool. I'll tell you why. When I applied to be an adoptive parent, I wouldn't have gone to the course if it wasn't mandatory, and I would have made the biggest mistake of my life. You don't know, I'm sure you're sitting here, and I know you're sitting here with someone who knows, but most of you don't know what this course is. This course is not a curriculum, it is not a cast, it is important text. The course is about being sensitive, preparing you, being spiritually prepared, and actually putting a stranger in our family. As beautiful as the adoption is in a pink cloud, it must be said that this is not so simple, and it is necessary to tell us in the course how to handle those sore throat moments when the child asks why my mother didn't want me, why I was adopted. I could count these not-so-easily-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so-so moments. That's why I need the course. They told us in the course, showed us movies, and psychologically confirmed us in what we needed to do. So it's not like they're gonna give you a kid, and here you go, and from now on, everything's beautiful. That's not true. By the time this turns into a family, especially when it comes to a bigger kid, it's not that easy. Some are lucky, some are easier, some are harder. But in the end, it could be a real good family, but it needs to be learned. It's not the same as when you're apologizing to carry a child and you're born into the family. There's still a time to prepare, because as long as it's small, you might be able to prepare better. Especially in the case of adoption of a larger child, a course is necessary, believe me, this is not a party policy issue. We need a course, we need to learn how to handle it, what to say to the kid when he asks, "Mom, I was in your belly?" And then I can tell him no, you were in my heart. This is not a party policy issue. I ask you to remove this passage from this law, because it is unacceptable. Yes, I've already submitted a proposal to change the law that might contain it. The only thing I'm asking is that we don't do this, because the parents won't go to the course, and they're gonna stop at the first obstacle. There's a lot that you don't know what's wrong with the kid because he can't express it, he can't tell you. I don't want to bore you with this right now, but believe me, this is a psychic confirmation course. So this isn't about how much to pay right now. Let's just say it would help if it wasn't so expensive, or if the state could help make it free, that's a very good thing. I have to, I have to, believe me. I'm standing in front of you as an adoptive parent. I can't imagine what would have happened if I hadn't gone to this course, how I would have done it, how I would have gotten there... It's been five years, thank God, I love my baby, but I have to live on it. So that's what this course is about, to sensitize me, to accept that not only a zero-year-old child can be adopted, but also a bigger one, and that's important for everyone, because the child can't grow up to be thrown around, from one foster home to the next, he can't grow up and spend his time in an institution or a home for 18 years, and then just hop. There's a follow-up, I know, because I worked in a housing home, so I know the system, but then it gets out of life, and it has no roots. But for us adoptive parents, we're gonna have a sweet, expensive child, or more, and hopefully she'll have good and careful parents. Being a family should be helped and assisted by psychologists and adoptive instructors. I've only done 21 hours of training, unfortunately. I wish it was 40 hours. I would've needed help so many times, and the words that they said to us there in the course, and the help that we got. So if we get this out of this, unfortunately, a lot of kids might be brought back, and that happens. By the way, I think the tightening ups are right and right, and necessary, and I can totally identify with that. There's a lot of what I suggested, and I'm glad to see it, even if my name isn't there, because it's not customary, in an ideal parliament, it would be that I was involved in this, and I'm glad to see from my proposals, even if not all, but a few. I also suggest that there should be sensitizations in society, so that they don't look at an adopted child as Jesus, what a miracle. No wonder it's a natural thing. The child, when he reaches that age, must become natural that he adopted me. It's not something special. I think it would be good for social advertising, for example, not to condemn the adoptive mother, and that society accepts that adoption is such a thing. Some people can have babies, and the mother who gave birth to them raises them, and some people in our case, Aunt Pearly's looking for mom and dad, and that's the point. So it's not about having a child, it's about having parents, it's very important. So what I'm asking for, and I'm telling you, is that if this gets out of this law, I haven't been here in vain for four years, and I feel like that's why I did it, and I think it's very important. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-173	Thank you very much for your thoughts, Congresswoman. Congressman Bence of Turdai, lead speaker of the Dialogue, please.
u2020-05-19-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I am one of those who reads the government's proposals with the hermetics of suspicion, and we usually look for the economic or power interests of the governing parties in submitting the proposal. But in this case, even the most hairy and suspicious opposition representative must see that this bill is a good deed. I really must say that this is a benevolent and highly professionally eligible bill. I would not mention your virtues, because there is exceptionally much agreement here between pro-government and opposition representatives. I would also like to draw attention to the same point as the previous speakers, which has already been supported by nearly 13 000 people, namely, that the adoption course should continue to be mandatory. Obviously, if the state can support this financially, or if it can make it even more free, the better. I do not want to waste your time because I believe that there have been more credible speakers here before, and there will be, perhaps, even the following, so I would like to quote only seven stakeholders' opinions. Judit wrote: "Our adopted son just became a four-year-old. Since then, we have been helped by professionals as good direction indicators, and we have received essential information from professionals that is not available elsewhere, so that we can raise a child with a healthy soul. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Marianna wrote: "I learned information about the course, and it significantly shaped my approach. I don't want the future parents to start adopting without that knowledge. It's for the children and the parents. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to Matthew, the course is essential, because everyone has pink stories about adoption. It is essential that the prospective adoptives at least have a realistic picture. This is where it is really decided what age, condition, and the other children would eventually be. This is the only chance to sensitize adoptives towards older, sick or Roma children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Elizabeth wrote: "I think the course is very important. The skills and skills of the training professionals were outstanding. It touched me emotionally, leaving a deep trace of what we heard there. Unmissable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Gabriella: We have two adopted children. Without the knowledge of the course, we could have made fatal mistakes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. P. Horváth wrote:. We adopted a child requiring special treatment, we also have children. Before the training, I thought what they could tell me, who had raised children. After the training, I realized that adoption raises questions I never thought of as a biological parent. Training is essential. Our instructors were very prepared, even though they were great people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to Emese, there are many misconceptions and prejudices in people about adoption, and at the beginning of the process there are also prospective adoptives. The course even says many new things to those who feel prepared. It wasn't a college lecture where the instructor turned in the material. Through discussions and situational exercises, we could learn about information and specific situations related to adoption. The course is essential, it is in the primary interest of children and adoptives. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] [[20.20]]
u2020-05-19-175	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. Mr János Bencsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-176	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hearing the words of my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, I was thinking about raising my voice at all, because what he said was so comprehensive, honest and credible as an adoptive parent. I think it can only be reinforced or perhaps supplemented. Indeed, there is a very important and very timely bill before us now, all the more so because 2-3 thousand parents wait each year to adopt a child and less than half of the more than 2 000 children who can be adopted find a new family. In the legislative text, I welcome the reduction of administrative burdens to my fellow Members, and it is to be welcomed that it will be possible to exempt from the obligation to work and make available. It is good that the date of adoption is reduced from half a year to three months for parents who do not have any contact with their children and who fall from one year to eight months in the case of irregular relationships. However, I would like to remind you that the abbreviation alone will not automatically reduce the waiting time, because in many cases high parental expectations are also due, since the main reason for adoptions is infertility, and most parents want to have a baby as young as possible, healthier and whiter as possible. On the other hand, the reality is that most of the children who are awaiting adoption are already over ten years of age, suffering from various physical disabilities, diseases or developmental shortcomings, many of them are Roma children and are awaiting adoption with several siblings. So the picture and reality that parents desire do not always meet in the first round. We also need to mention that there are a lot of families with troubled backgrounds. A lot of parents avoid children with severe alcohol problems, addictions, very many abuse or neglect their children, and there are many cases where the biggest problem in a family is that the mother did not take baby protection vitamins or is not full of children's bedroom Fisher-Price games, but that there is no water, electricity and heating. Let's just say a few words about that. And there are very, very many children who come from an orderly environment, but they are going through a lot of emotional shocks and traumas, and the lack of a constant loving atmosphere leaves a mark on their souls. These children deserve not only normal housing conditions, but also to go to families where they find emotional security, and where parents are aware of the responsibility they take when they become adoptive parents, where they can deal with the problems that arise, and where they can also answer cross questions that arise for almost all adopted children who come to parents by birth. In dealing with the challenges and answering the questions, preparation courses for adoptive parents are a great help, which, if everything stays this way and it has already been said that if we adopt this bill as it is now, these will not be mandatory in the future, they will only be optional. We do not know why this is really necessary, but we do know that there is no justification for this text, but we do know that the organisations that deal with it object to it. I would also like to refer to a petition that in five days is over 13,000 signatures, including I have signed. Ladies and gentlemen, These training courses were not invented by accident in 2003, nor is it a coincidence that the Ministry of Human Resources increased the number of teaching materials from 21 to 40 hours during your government in 2018. All the parties involved, at least who I am aware of, clearly considered the course drawn up by the Ministry to be right and right. That's why they're confused about why they're taking this as an option. There are many parents who were reluctant to attend the first courses at first. If they had had to choose, they probably wouldn't have gone, but in hindsight almost without exception they said that in retrospect it was good and right, and they were grateful to have attended these courses. This petition is, in fact, a kind of stand-up, solidarity with the meaning and benefit of the current courses. I would very much ask you to consider this. I would like to join in the words of my fellow Member, Gabriella Selmeczi, who has given her the impression that she and KDNP are planning some kind of amendment. I very much hope that this amendment will affect this. If you would refer to this later in the debate, I would thank you. If they do not do so and do not leave the compulsory nature of the courses, the result will be that the very people who need them most will not apply for them, because the fee for the two weekend courses is about 60 thousand forints. It would make much more sense to have this cost at least partially, or, if possible, fully taken over by the state than to say that whoever wants is involved, and who doesn't want to. I would like to refer again to my fellow Members in preparation courses not only for information, but also for sensitivity, and these sensitivities have a very important role to play for children with problematic backgrounds, and I think that this is irresistible. I propose to the Government that, if you insist on choosing between completing the course and not completing it, we at least tie this to some condition and tie it to the individual dispensation that can be granted either by the Ministry or by the Regional Child Protection Services. If they do not, there will be unforeseen consequences, and the number of adoptions will increase. I would like to quote the words of the protesters' petition to Minister Miklós Kásler. If the preparation course is not mandatory, many people are not expected to make use of the 60,000 HUF participation fee per person, but this can be embedded in mass failure adoptions and lead to tragedies when unprepared, illusory, false expectations of the applicants or raised in secret and lies. It's no one's interest, especially the child. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, 1050 children were adopted, and in many cases the waiting period may be several years. It's not gonna be up to this two weekends, and it's not gonna be up to this course to make the adoption process really faster. My fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, has described it perfectly, but let me ask you this question: how do you expect adoptive parents to be able to handle the situation when children come before them, to give information to children who have already experienced a terrible shock in the womb? Children who have been to several foster homes or, where appropriate, to several foster parents, children whose mothers have never breastfed, children who have not received a single hug in their entire lives, who have had no other classes in their entire lives but exclusion, neglect, and deprivation. How will these parents cope in these already trying situations without adequate training? Who and how will tell these children why they are not raised by their biological parents, that the people they call their mothers and fathers are not their biological parents? Who and how will equip these children against the incomprehensible or, at worst, sarcastic comments and questions they will receive from their classmates and fellow students? And what will be the right answer to the question when the child will suddenly come up on a normal Thursday afternoon and ask his parents when he can finally meet his real parents? [[20.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, These are questions that parents will simply not be able to answer properly without the help of appropriate psychologists or family therapists. If we save these courses now, we will pay a very hard price for this, because these saved courses will generate problems, family tragedies that will require much more psychologists and family therapists. After all, these families, these family ties, will be destroyed, and those psychologists, those family therapists who could give you some kind of training for the next 40 hours will have to work out multiples of that, and they will have to do multiples of that in various occupations, treatments and therapies. So I would ask you very much that this current system, which is now, this part of the course, should not change that, and please do not put the lives of thousands of families at risk, consider amending this bill in this spirit. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-177	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anett, DK.
u2020-05-19-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Several points of the bill before us are welcome, and it can also be seen that there have been long waiting for adoptionists and children waiting for a loving family who are currently living in public care or foster care, a package of measures to facilitate or speed up a similar adoption process, so that they can finally connect as painlessly as possible with families where they find peace and where they can find loving parents or possibly loving brothers. They, as the fellow Member who spoke before me, are indeed already suffering from traumas in the fetal age that we certainly do not know ourselves, or from infancy these children are going through traumas that can be dealt with by families that are better equipped to deal with later. What we are reading in this amending proposal is forward-looking in a number of respects, and I would also like to give some of these examples to show that I do not think that I have to show on behalf of opposition colleagues that we have good intentions for this proposal, and that we have good intentions in recommending the amendments that we are submitting to this material you have submitted. The ten days off of adoptive recipients per year or the reduction of the examination of an irregular or non-existent parental contact period, which allows for the accelerated adoption of children, are changes which can only be agreed upon. My fellow Member, Mr Krisztina Hohn, who is in front of me, but many others have fought for a long time, which may have led to the fact that opposition proposals that have emerged in this material. I would also like to move on to what is objectionable in the government's vision, which is challenged by the profession of child protection and the people concerned, especially by adoptive families. It's extremely important to listen to your word. As my fellow Member, Mr Hohn Krisztina, who is most certainly more experienced in this matter, said, it is not permissible to make the adoption training course optional for those who want to adopt it. There was an argument here that many adoptive parents would say that if they hadn't made this course mandatory for them, you wouldn't have applied. And I'm not just talking about expenses. I think that we are talking about a very small number of social groups, for example, if we look at the budget as a whole, so it is only a matter of political will, let us say, on a social basis, with a scholarship system, with any system, to make it easier to pay the fee for the course, and not to adopt measures in the opposite direction. Indeed, the existence of this course and its compulsory nature do not dispute the goodness, experience, or preparation for parenthood of those who want to adopt it, but here indeed an alien small person arrives, regardless of his age, into a family that may have been traumatized by waiting for his own biological child for a long time, traumatized by the fact that, in some cases, his attempts through the system of adoption have been unsuccessful for a long time. I can see that this proposal is now seeking to eliminate these failures, Mr Secretary of State, so do not understand my words in a way that I am speaking against this proposal. However, it is true that the type of sensitivity and the preparation that this course provides is absolutely essential. Even when we are pregnant or planning our own children, we also visit a number of professional books or courses that can prepare us for pregnancy, childbirth, breast-feeding, or for the child's childhood or education. This is a different task, and this has been discussed by my opposition colleagues. I would very much ask you, Mr Secretary of State and my fellow members of the Government, to listen to these voices. We are not only us, but also the profession, which shakes the alarm about making the adoption course optional or making it freely available. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We all consider it important that children are able to be provided with a family as quickly as possible by the institutional system, but allow some thought to be given to the fact that at present the institutional system is not able to provide adequate conditions for this in many cases. I am aware that many are adopted without problems, but in a cumbersome way, and this can also bring lengthy, exhausting, painful experience to adopt families and adopted ones, who are looking forward to living in a family. However, speeding up the process within the current institutional system is burdening an unprepared institutional system with a task that it will not be able to perform, and I think that it will be more victims than the present long waiting period or the circumstantial adoption process. The proposal includes the situation of children who are temporarily or permanently deprived of their family environment, who have the right to find a family and have the right to protection of the State. That's very good. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the substance before us refers to the New York Convention in its explanatory memorandum, Article 31 of which provides for a pre-requisite, which is much easier to carry out and which helps children to live, that children have the right to culture, leisure and the right to play at their age. I would like to say to you that this is a much less complex task than the process of adoption and adoption, or, as my fellow Members have already said before me, the way in which an adopted and adopted couple actually becomes a family. I think that right now our school system or our social care system can't even comply with Article 31 of the New York Convention. Many times, Hungarian children do not enjoy the right to play or to leisure, they do not enjoy fundamental rights that are much simpler than those that take place during the adoption process, whether we are talking about spiritual, technical or legal frameworks. To get a little closer to the topic before us, we have recently seen news from our fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, which directly affects child protection, professional services about children who are forced to grow up without a parent or who are awaiting adoption, and that is that during a quarantine period for 40 days children were allowed to stay only in the courtyard when they had free time. Dear Secretary of State, I am aware that the human epidemic has put all of us to work in ways that we have never seen before, and I also know that in many cases there have been improvised and wrong solutions. But as long as within this system, which the adoption is about, such mistakes can be made, we cannot talk about a prepared institutional system. [[20.40]] I would therefore like to ask you to take steps to shorten the process of adoption when the institutional system has been properly prepared to carry out these tasks. I ask you to take more time to work out what has come before this House in this proposal, which has been substantially amended with good intentions and in a really acceptable way. I believe that it is also in the interests of adoptive citizens and children who are waiting for a loving family. There's been a lot of talk about the course. I would like to thank you for listening to me, and I would ask you to listen to the requests made by opposition representatives. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-179	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, independent, please.
u2020-05-19-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have a very old desire here in Parliament to talk about facilitating adoption, so since 2012, since I've been here, we've talked about it several times across different fault lines, that it would be good to change certain things. I am really glad that we are one step closer to what we would like to think is good, and the fact is that the three points on which you want to change are all eligible, the ten working days per year that will be freed up for successful adoption, the 50-year difference in age when it comes to children over the age of three, and the case of simplified localisation is clearly eligible. But I actually asked for the floor because I see very serious problems with the course, if they make it voluntary, and that's really the only reason I'm speaking here, because I really want to protect this course, and I really want to understand why it came up that they would abolish it, which I think is a very wrong idea or suggestion. All through the adoption, it is always in the best interests of the child, so it is a very child-centred thing. Anyone who has experience and who has read about it knows that an adoptive parent is always chosen for the child, rather than looking at the parents, which child would match them, so this is such a fundamental attitude to this issue. Now, if this course were to get out of the system, then this, this story, wouldn't be the child they're looking at anymore, but rather, it seems like the parents or I don't know exactly who's interests would prevail, because the point of this whole thing is that originally it seems in the best interest of the child to have the course, but in fact, it is in the interests of the whole family, and it is also in the interest of the parent to take the course. By the way, I took such a course myself, because I myself am an adoptive parent, I have two biological children, and I have a third child of my own, a child of my own heart, so that is how I am a mother of three, and I have quite fresh experiences about this course, and I must tell you that it was a turning-of-the-life experience for me. Obviously, the fact that we were going to fantastic teachers has also contributed to this, but I think that I would have gone anywhere to such a course, these experiences, if I had lived there, with very similar experiences. This is the one thing I would very much like to tell you, because I think that if we were in court, I would say that conclusive evidence is a fundamental, something that makes it irrefutable that this course is necessary, that we were quite many there, and that the view of the people or couples who came in and how they left was not the same, changed during the course. So, as they went through all of this, and they became deeply concerned about what it means to adopt a child, what is waiting for the child, what is waiting for them, how they can handle certain problems, they simply changed their attitude, and if you can say that, I think it's much better than they came in, and they were able to make a much more informed decision afterwards. For example, there is a section in the course where you have to tick in different ways about the level that you can still accept or accept in the family, that when it comes to vulnerability, it's about diseases, and it was very interesting to see that at the beginning, parents were very much ticked, and, if so, they said that they couldn't take it, they couldn't take it, and then somehow, like... Like a therapy, it was like this whole story with those who led it, and they just opened up, and they realized that they were stronger than they thought, and that things could be handled differently by someone who held the course, he himself showed techniques, that if he was faced with one of these, he could be treated, and they simply became more confident about the adoption. It's very interesting to stand before you, by the way, that I'm not really an expert on the subject, but I'm concerned with it, and I'm also trying to explain it the way I've lived, because an expert could say that much better, but if you look at the point, it means that stronger, more effective parents have come out of this course than the parent candidates have. So I think it would be a shame to volunteer for something like this. They say that I am a liberal, not that this is a problem for me, but I am certainly not a liberal, so I would certainly study these parents; I say that when I talk about my biological child, we had such a course in the hospital before we were born, we had a very good attitude for nurses and midwives, and they made us, for example, for a period of nine months after we were pregnant, because, you know, they say that nine months in, nine months outside, or I don't know how to express myself, a preparation, yes, what we can expect, and how to deal with situations. So I think that information, credible information, always makes people's lives and people's situations easier, and I think that what information is given in this course needs to be adopted successfully. So this is very important, and, please note that I had the experience of changing the views of families or couples there, and this definitely strengthened the situation of children afterwards. The other thing I wanted to highlight is that they say that they want to speed up adoptions, which is right, because there really are things that can be accelerated, but what we see is that when it comes to preparation, we also need to be aware that we always have to slow down with a child. No matter how fast a man's work or his life is, if we get home and the children are there, then, I don't know, there's a lot of things we have to do out there, and we have to slow down with the child. And in this course, we learned a lot about, for example, what is different about a biological child than an adopted, heart-to-heart child, and when situations come that are inevitably coming, and obviously I can talk a lot about it, it's very helpful to have a virtually ready recipe from a trained professional who has seen something like this not one, not two, and not, let's say, look on the Internet in Google's search engine for exactly what to do in such a situation. So I think that in order to be successful in the post-admission period, and even in the period when the child is placed, such training can help a lot, and I also have to add that there are really a lot of specializations for adoption, there are fairy tale books for children and parents, and there are preparations for all kinds of things, but it is not a coincidence that, say, we go to school, and in the quarantine situation, we can see just how different home learning is, even if you get guidance, and how different it is to get something ready for school, collected, from to time; the same thing with the course, it is not for me to figure out what the ten books and fifteen movies are, which you need to see, but there are two fantastic people, in our case fantastic people, who will really tell you in this forty hours, what it is without which you will really fall on, if the child arrives to you. So, yeah, this course slows me down a little bit, those weekends are like, you know, you have to sit there all the time, and you have to listen, and believe me, what knowledge I got there, I think it's been digested in me for months, and now that I'm raising this baby, it's activated a lot of times, and I might react differently to a particular situation, because I got it from that woman, and I'm pretty sure it's in my child's best interest. Which would be a great help, and that is the last thing I want to say, that this is really an expensive course, and I think that in this country there is enough money to receive the Hungarian budget for these courses. So I'd like to ask you to do this. I do not know what amendment our fellow Member Selmeczi will propose, what he specifically meant, but I hope that it will include, on the one hand, that this course may remain in place, as a lot of people have asked for the signatures, and this petition is alive and can be signed now, I have signed it myself, but the other could be that the fee for this course is either fully or partly taken over by the parents, given the social situation where appropriate, by the Hungarian State. I am sure that I am happy to promote the adoption of children, there are many things that I do not enjoy, I do not like, and there are a lot of words about it in the Hungarian Parliament, but in the debate on this bill, I want to focus specifically on the positive thing that we are really helping each other find these parents and children. [[20.50]] By the way, I'm going to give you a personal example when my little boy asked me exactly how he got here, I told him the stork brought him in, that, yes, there are freshmen that do a little bit orbit, but then they always find the baby and put it in the right place. That's what happened to us, and I want everyone to live the life that I've lived, and I know that I couldn't have done it without the course. So I'm asking you to consider the need for this course. Actually, even this course word sounds a little silly, because it's a lot more than a course. It's actually a very deep journey for a man on his own, in his parenthood, in his adoption, and a very deep experience of what awaits him, and a very serious help for everyone involved in the adoption. So, Mr. Secretary of State, please let me influence you now. Believe me, I didn't say what I said with any bad intentions.
u2020-05-19-181	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, thanking her for the speech. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would comment on this proposal because I have been looking forward to it for a very long time, since I am a Member, so that the topic of adoption will come up in some way during the plenary session. It's simply because when I was a young lawyer, by the grace of God, I was able to participate in the process of adopting several families as legal representatives, and I saw both the children's side and the parents' side and the institutional side. I must say that I welcome the fact that the government is trying to improve the existing rules in some way, to make adoption easier, there are certainly forward-looking elements in the proposal, but my 20-year experience is that the Hungarian adoption system in this form is still not in the best interests of children. Each speaker always expresses: adoption is in the interest of children. Parents apologize to all of you for that. The child is the one who is exposed to the world, has no capacity to act, has no awareness of what is happening around him. And while one of the children who is born into a family that is fortunately a great mother and father, who designed, waited, received, and made their lives happy, there is another child who does not receive it, despite the blessing of a mother and father. When she comes into the world, she's not given the circumstances that others may have. There are three situations in which a child can be adopted: when he is abandoned at birth, when he becomes an orphan, and no family member is to raise them, and the third way is to take a child away from his own family, his parents, because they are unfit to raise children, and they endanger the child's development for some reason. When we talk about birth and they leave the child, and the parent, the mother, wasn't prepared to perhaps have an open adoption, to prepare the process before giving birth, to find a family immediately, because the lucky thing is that when the mother realizes that she doesn't want to raise her child, then you make sure that she finds a family she trusts and trusts her child, so that I leave her somewhere, in worse cases, in an incubator, better case, discussed with a hospital nurse or doctor. I would like to talk about this issue for the first time. From the moment the parent says I'm not taking her home, my principle is that the parent's rights become second-rate. So, if we do not say on this issue that the child is the ruler and the parent is second-rate, then we can never build this system in a child-centred way. And I'm not gonna accept that in this rule, too, I'm gonna give you that much time and that much time to visit the child, because even in the absence of the child from the parent, one day is a long day, not three months, four months, five months, eight months, whatever! The parent who says that I'm leaving the child now because I don't know yet, I didn't know during my pregnancy, and it's still time for me to create the conditions that I can bring the child home to, is another story, but it's hard to imagine that a parent like that doesn't at least visit his child every two weeks. So I would like this chapter of the whole adoption system, when children are left behind and are put into this system with the possibility that they may be adopted, to be strict with the parent! Parents need to be expected. It's a greater treasure than getting a child, not on the ground! So when it says in the rule that if they can't find the parent for three months, what is it? ! Are we looking for the parent? ! Did the kid give you permission to do that? That's what the current rule is about, so don't get me wrong. I'm criticizing the current rule as well as the closest rule. Who are we? ! As a society? What is the institutional system? Why should I look for a parent? ! Have you forgotten how you had a child? ! We're not looking for anyone, please. We're not looking! The poor child who came into this world in an unfortunate fate, because she was created by nature, but the man, the man who doesn't want her, we don't wait for her, and we don't look for her! Because every single day he spends in an institution without a parenting home, that's at his disadvantage. How many, how many, how many studies have you read about our entire lives being determined by the experiences of the first three years? How many of these? I'm sure you've all read this. There is no one who doesn't even deal with such a question that they haven't met with it. Therefore, although I welcome this proposal, I think that there must be a more serious systemic change in this matter to the fact that the second-rate role, because at that moment the role of that parent is second-rate, can not benefit more than that of the child. The next item is when you leave the child. They've already taken her home, and then she's either an abandoned child, or the other is being taken away from the family. The child has the right at the moment of his birth to go there, to people who make up for his natural loss. The natural loss of the child is the loss of the mother and father by either not receiving it, only biologically, or lost, or taken away. The next day, when this happens to the child, the replacement of the natural medium must be our first task, and our approach must be to make up for natural loss by action. This is important, by the way, because we talk a lot more about how an adoptive parent should prepare for parenthood and what course to attend and how to learn about methods. But I can see that there are several parents with at least three children in this room, and each one of them tells me that this is how to treat one child, the other, and the third, because he has three children of a total three nature, and that no parenting advice ever works. Or one of them does, or the other two don't. Being a parent is, I think, an emotional process, a spiritual, personality preparation that we get from our nature, so every single person, man, woman just gets to, who is 18, who is 40, to the state of consciousness that his life isn't complete without being a parent. Therefore, I think, and with great respect, that I am not making concrete proposals at the moment, but I am asking the government representative to make the proposal still less child-centred. It's a long time, eight months is a long time. Yeah, he took me out of the past, but it's too much! [[21.00]] There's no such thing as waiting three months for the parent! There's no such thing! No! Today, in the world of mobility, in the world of the development of mobile phones and telecommunications, we do not have to wait that long, because every day in a non-family is the loss of a child. I know that this proposal only partially concerns the issue of foster care, but perhaps in the part where it says that it is adopted for four years. I think it's a terrible rule. It's been horrible before, but what's four years of adoption? What's this? It's an Iks year, and it's adopted, and then what? So what I'm trying to say is that these guys are supposed to be better than they used to be, but I want the government to be so family- and child-centric that we shouldn't repair, but do a really good one. Why not? Here's two-thirds, here's us, everyone wants to do this thing very well. Because if parental custody has not been revoked, well, in this matter, this is not the subject of this, but we need to talk to judges and child protection people about the fact that the child is the first and not the parent we're always waiting for to be able to talk to his child. The other is the age difference. When my fellow Member, Krisztina Hohn, raised this question and we spoke with Mr Secretary of State Rétvári, and I said that one more thing should be considered, this is when he already has his own child or even adopted child for someone, and he says that I would like another one. Where there are already two children of their own, there may already be a greater age difference between the child and the parent, since there are two more children or three more children. When, after the second, a third, a fourth comes after the third, they help a lot to bridge the difference in the age between the child and the parent, because the principle is always very right that there may be a limit to life, too soon orphans, let us say, those adopted children who have a greater age difference. But where there is a brother, whether he is adopted or a child of his own, there is a support medium if he loses the parent! And let me tell you one more thing. I see a lot of 30-year-olds with 70-year-old thinking, and I see a lot of 60-year-olds very young, so I can show you more from my tight environment. So age, of course, has to be set some kind of standard, but I feel that it would be much better to customize it. I find it difficult to imagine that an administrator who manages one of these things says, let's say, to a 60-year-old that, yes, 60-year-old doesn't adopt, even though he sees that he has such momentum, and he has such a joy of life and a love of life, and maybe he has another child, he just thinks he's giving his person, he's giving his person a gift to a child who doesn't have a family. So I think that we should make this system much more flexible so that the child has the greatest chance of getting into a family that is the most optimal for him, the earliest, the most harmonious, in the most loving medium. My fellow Members are also right that leaving the course may lead to situations where perhaps one parent is not so prepared. I wouldn't want to contradict you, but I would like to say that there are parents who won't make parents in 18 courses, and there are parents who were born to do so, and God the creator doesn't give them the opportunity to have their own children. So let's say that each person puts his own personality, his own position, his own history, his own biology, his own DNA, his own principles into this story. In Hungary, frustration and mental problems are extremely serious in adult society. There are a lot of people who are never officially found out because they're not in that position, but we can see it. If you look only at conflicts in social movements, endless frustration in social media, most of these are the result of childhood situations. If our aim in Hungary is to make the next generation as healthy as possible, and we see that unfortunately it is true that the number of adoptions has increased, but there are more and more families and children where the family raises the child in an inadequate way, and the child is in a vulnerable situation, unfortunately, we need to aim to ensure that every child who is not in the family today, but in institutions, or that, as an eighth to ninth child in foster parents, we can talk about it for 15 minutes, so the point is that the children get into a more loving, the better family, because then there is a chance that the childhood loss that they have suffered can compensate for the family loss and the love that they have already suffered, and that they can not transfer these traumas to the adult's life. So that's why I thought I was going to tell you my words, and I'm going to urge you to submit amendments, because we simply want to give you an approach, a further approach, so that if, thank God, the government has touched on this issue, the better proposal, the better law, the more child-centric practice can develop. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-183	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Congressman Csaba Gyure, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I did not wish to comment on this subject, but I have heard so many voices here in Parliament, and finally a topic that touches the Member of Parliament not only professionally, but I think that it has touched the soul of many and many of us here, and it has really raised feelings in the contributions of my fellow Members, which, I believe, is here and listening, has touched us all. I was very pleased with Krisztina Hohn's comment, and I was also touched by his statement that it was not important for an adoption that the parent should finally find, have an adopted child, but it is important that the child should have a mother, father, if we say heart to heart, as has been said here from others, and it is a very nice expression that such a mother and father should be a heart parent to him, that is the most important. Obviously, they must be seen in every way to make them less comfortable, the less administration they have, but let us not forget the responsibility of the state. Then, if the state or public authorities give this child to a family, then it doesn't matter what circumstances it falls into. Unfortunately, I have experienced a lot of things during my career as a lawyer, I have experienced good and bad, even when the child has actually been in very good circumstances, even when he is in practically terrible, unspeakable terrible circumstances. And here is the responsibility of the state to whom it will be given. And indeed, it has also been said here as an argument that this course is needed, this course is needed. When a child is born in a family, parents may be 18 years old, and they don't have to take a longer course, and yet they will know that they will usually be able to raise that child, know what to do with it. However, the situation is completely different here, because when a child is born in a family, usually, in good times, that child is planned, discussed, prepared, and then there are nine months, while the mother carries out her child, during that time also mentally and psychologically prepares, obviously the responsible ones discuss it with the parents, grandparents, and a lot of people read about it. So the preparation process is always there. Of course, in the case of adoption, there is an opportunity to do the same, and they expect it to be the same, but it is not the intimate expectation that someone wants to adopt or carry their baby under their heart. Obviously, it's a completely different situation. We have to be very, very careful when we decide on this, and how long a child stays in public care, when he gets there, and more than once, I have seen many times, unfortunately, when the older children, not newborns, are not one year old, but when 6-8 year olds are waiting for what will happen to them, when the orphan child is in the child shelter, and there you sit and see their faces. He who has no mother, no father, complete insecurity, who will love him in life, when the child may have nothing more important than to cling to him than to love him and to love him back, and there he is abandoned, fatherless, motherless, and does not know what his destiny will be. [[21.10]] When we can help these children by making it easier for them to adopt, it must be supported and considered. But I would ask the honourable majority of the government to reconsider and consider what all opposition representatives who have spoken so far have said so that this compulsory nature of the course should be removed. I think that those who spoke here, and those who were involved, have also said this and quoted quotes from adoptive parents who would not have completed this course, because they said that we could raise a child, because everyone here in Hungary knows how to raise children and play football. That's it. That's what everyone thinks, that everyone can raise that kid, well, why can't I raise him? Yes, but the situation is completely different here, so it is important to be emotionally prepared for the opportunities that the adoptive parent will encounter. You can't imagine what emotional situations you're going to be in, or even what the child will be going through, nor what adoption situations and emotions the adoptive father or mother will experience later on. I think it is extremely important that these parents are prepared for this, that adoptive parents know what will be waiting for them. I don't think there's a solution here in this bill to go towards easier resistance, let's just let it go, let's not have anyone who wants, let's go, who doesn't want, let's go. It's the easiest. Why can't we do what we can to help with the adoption of this course? Be mandatory, but be free, let us contribute to this. I understand that in other countries, when they think responsibly about the future of children, they also require a course there. I was involved in a case where a child was adopted from the United States. There were incredibly strict rules in the United States, even when imported from abroad. Indeed, a very long and very serious course had to be carried out, and no steps could be taken until it was confirmed that both parents had completed this course in the United States and could not move on until then, nor could they submit their claim. I think that's how the responsible state thinks. It is therefore very important to make it easier for the administration to be as easy as possible, as little administrative tasks as possible, but to make the decision on the future of children as responsible as possible. I wish that we would consider doing this together, together, the best decision for families and children. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-05-19-185	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP in two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-186	Thank you very much for the floor. I really don't want to take advantage of anyone's time, but I think I'm gonna re-enhance what this course is about, because maybe not everyone has it all clear or not completely obvious. This course does not teach baby care, child rearing, or what to feed the child, or anything like that. This course should not actually be called a course, it should be called a training course, it should be left out as a training course and education. This is not a classic education. This creates a community where we can discuss cases, but not about the child's bad behavior right now, but about how to react to a particular situation related to his adoption. This is very important. The other thing is, it's sensitive to us. When I went in, I only wanted a healthy child of zero years old. When I came out, I might have adopted a 35-year-old. [[Defiance.]] It's a bit of a stretch, I don't mean to jest, but the sensitivity has happened in my case, I've become more accepting, more tolerant. Really. So there was a lot less stipulation. There's a list, unfortunately, although a child isn't a commodity, yet there's a list of things to help you accept in the case of a child. But this course, this training course, has helped us to understand this whole thing and understand the way it works, because it's not like another family. It's not like that. It'll turn into one. But to do so, there's a path to go through. They're holding your hand here, they're forming a community, and we've kept in touch after that, and we're holding on to the adoption counselor right now. It's important. It's not a course, you don't have to take an exam, it's not how you interpret it. But it takes you to be confident and to live the way you're supposed to. For the child's sake. Thank you. [[A big round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-05-19-187	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, More people are rooting for what I'm about to say. [[Defiance.]] In light of that, I'd like to ask you if you'd like to speak up. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to reflect. [[Attila Philip: Yes.]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-05-19-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank you for the debate, and I would like to thank you for your contributions on this subject, if possible, also for your human and personal aspects and experiences. By resolving the polemia at the beginning, the fact is that we have worked together with the Secretary of State on this legislation, but above the personal issues, there is a much more important, deeper content. Adoption is as much a family policy as it is an integral part of child protection. This has been mentioned many times in the last hour, over the past period, exactly what is needed to bring child protection and adoption into the better and better direction. That is the case, and I would like to emphasise this, because it is important that this is not a piece of legislation coming from the air, but an organic continuation of recent years. When we talk about family-centred politics and family-friendly governance and, by the way, making child protection family-centred, there have been a lot of steps in this recent period. She wasn't born without a history. I am glad that we can say that there have never been so many foster parents before, there have not been as many foster children as there are in Hungary today, and the fact is that the campaign that has been going on in the last year has also set the goal of having children who can grow up in non-blood families in foster homes and families instead of institutions. Congresswoman Selmeczi mentioned that more than 650 out of a thousand children, who, by the way, came from child protection and was adopted, so obviously the interconnection of the two systems is clear. The most important topic, the course, is mentioned at the beginning, as most comments have been received on the course. Many statements have been made, which may not stand the test of reality, for example, that we do not want to examine suitability and that we want to abolish it. There's volunteering here. But I would also like to record now, just so I can give you another good news, that we can talk about an additional discount, which will be presented in the form of an amendment proposal, which, if I understand correctly, will also be supported by you opposition representatives. We will also provide support to fix the regulation of the free training course, and this will obviously be another option for family support. I think we could say it was round here, but I have to say a few sentences, let me. Zoltán Varga said that in some cases financial discrimination has been imposed on those who are adoptive parents. In the Expoze, I also said that the adoption fee, adoption and maternity allowance, which did not exist before, was introduced from 1 January 2020 in the form of family support for adoptive parents. Otherwise, these were not voted by the opposition in this Parliament. For the last hour and a half, I have listened to what is important in this area, but when we brought this proposal here in concrete legislation, I was here myself, but the vote did not accept it. [[21.20]] So I am pleased that if this is a priority, it would obviously also be our request that, when we make legislation and bring it here from the government, it should also be done during the vote. Mrs Anett Bősz mentioned, if I understand correctly, and I am sorry if I misunderstood that there has been a mistake in the system in the case of children's homes over the past period and why the children's homes have been isolated. I was in Tordas today at a disability facility, and I've been in a lot of institutions lately. The fact is, before the outbreak, we saw pictures of the Spanish Minister of War standing up and telling us about the losses in the homes, and by the way, from Italy to Britain, we saw these pictures. In this situation, one thing can be done as a responsible decision-maker: institutions that are, in some respects, closed institutions are isolated by man. I think those who have worked in social institutions, nursing homes, disabled, addicted, psychiatric homes or children's homes in the last two months have done everything in their power to help them, and besides these protocols, to make sure that they have as little damage as possible. So I just want to ask that from this situation, which we have had to work through in this area over the last few months, and that we have had to go through with it for those working in the social field and in the protection of children, we do not, as far as possible, bring out that there was a mistake. I think the child protection system had to be protected even if it was much more difficult than peacetime now, in the war situation, but it proves that this decision was good and that it was good, because fortunately it was there to avoid further problems. I wouldn't waste any more time. Thank you very much for your comments, thank you very much for your support. What I can tell you is that next time we're gonna be bringing in some of these family-oriented child protection proposals and documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for the Erzsébet Camps until closure. Government referral T/10521. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Attila Philip. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The Government of Hungary has been providing hundreds of thousands of holidays every year for nearly ten years. Support for children, families, including large families and single-parent families, people with disabilities and pensioners has been in place since 2012. This unique programme in Europe has been attacked many times, including the European Commission, by questioning the voucher system. Erzsébet's system of vouchers providing the source of the Erzsébet programme, which had previously provided cover for the implementation of the camps, had to be transformed in accordance with a decision taken in Brussels. However, the Hungarian government did not allow children and families to suffer the damage, so in 2016 we reorganized the programme in order to continue helping Hungarian citizens. In 2016, there was a split-up of tasks in the area: on the one hand, the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation has been responsible for the recreation of adults and families, on the other hand, for the recreation, camping of children and the provision of children's programmes, so the implementation of the Erzsébet camps has become the responsibility of the Erzsébet Foundation. The reorganisation has made the system more effective, as we have been able to help more citizens in recent years by transferring the two responsibilities to two organisations. I would just like to highlight a few figures: in 2016, nearly 90 thousand people participated in the Erzsébet Camps, in the following year, in 2017, they exceeded 100,000 people, then in 2018, there were 126 thousand campers, and in the last year, in 2019 the camp reached the total number of 130,000. In the programmes provided for in the Erzsébet camp system, participants also include children with special educational needs and disabilities, and children living and recovering from illness. They have been given priority in participation and will continue to be a priority in the future. This is why the bill also states that children and families in need should be given priority during the camping process. The founding document of the organizing Erzsébet Foundation and the guidelines of the grant also put the needy first, and the system of selection is based on social foundations. We want more children to enjoy the Erzsébet camp system. From 2021, the renovation of the Zánka, Fonyódliget and Transylvanian campsites will allow more children to have free time and meaningful recreation XXI. Under the circumstances of the century. The long-term objective is to allow camping on a secure basis from 2021 for almost doubling the number of campers, which already represents nearly 180 000 children a year. This can also ensure that camping sites as real estate always serve the purpose of camping, and it can also be guaranteed that camping is continuous with domestic or EU resources. Dear House, Erzsébet camps must also be put into law in order to clarify clearly the concepts, the types of camps, so who surrounds our children or grandchildren during camping, whether it is the day-care camps organised on the outside with co-operatives, such as public education institutions, family support services, or the Erzsébet Foundation's sleep-sleeping Erzsébet camps. It is also necessary to adopt the bill in order to state that accommodation, meals for the whole day and programs are essential in the sleep-in camps, including the family camps. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that family camps are not the same as those offered by the family social holiday scheme, and this is also an additional opportunity for Hungarian families. Dear House, We define the camper in the bill, i.e. that children under the age of 18 or children aged 18 or who are disabled or who are partially disabled by the Erzsébet campers, and, in the case of the family Erzsébet camp, parents, legal representatives or other relatives who use the services and opportunities provided by law. This system has worked so far, making it safe for unauthorized persons to stay among the Erzsébet campers, whether they are campers or campers. Dear House, The Erzsébet Camps can be organized by the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin. The church foundation has been camping since 2016. The founding rights of the organization are exercised by the Szent Ágota Child Protection Service, which is a national child protection institution operating in the maintenance of the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese since 2011. The foundation works along a long-term concept, organizes camps and programs throughout the year, which are typically, but not limited to, Zánka, Fonyódliget and Transylvania campgrounds. Over the past four years, thanks to central budget support, the Foundation has implemented the safe camping of these 100-130 thousand children each year, of which around 60,000 campers usually attend daycare. Dear House, In the case of the day-care and sleep-sleeping camps of the Erzsébet camps, the topics of Hungarianism and home knowledge, sport, science and culture as well as Christianity appear in the programmes. [[21.30]] In the area of the Erzsébet camp programmes, it is important to contribute to the acquisition of experience with active participation, experience-based occupations that develop community-building, awareness-raising and digital competence, as well as with programmes related to the protection of our environment. Last year, 130,000 people participated in the camps and children's programmes; in most cases, thousands at the same time and at the same time. And that brings responsibility. Just as it is essential for responsible camping, for example, to provide information on medical conditions, drug sensitivity, food allergy, special care, to provide information on identity documents or even to obtain contact details, to protect and protect participants. In addition, it is necessary to provide certain information and data in the context of calls for applications, including in terms of age or social situation, as the Foundation pays particular attention to children with disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantages, special needs for education and public care. In order to ensure maximum security, the scope of data that can be requested is defined by law, thus guaranteeing the highest level of data protection. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, In the light of what has been said above, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There are speeches to be made by the Chief Speech. Congressman Sándor Kovács, lead speaker of the Fidesz, please.
u2020-05-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard from Mr Secretary of State's exposé, the 2012 CIII on the Erzsébet programme. Law has had several tasks in relation to people in difficult social situations or living with others, whether in the placement and recreation of pensioners or families in need, in which I believe that the government has a duty at all times, to organise a meaningful spending of leisure time, camping or summer program that contributes to the physical and mental development of children or to their national identity or to their country knowledge of their development. Also, the family gets such cohesional experiences in these programs that the strangling of the kind of spiritual strings is not only physical, but also expressing the joy of being together, I think. The Erzsébet Camps are Hungary's largest camping programme, implemented by Erzsébet from the religious background for the Children of the Carpathian Basin Foundation for the fifth year. The foundation, supported by the Government of Hungary, organizes several camps and provides for many children's programmes throughout the year. By default, thousands of people on the shore of Lake Balaton can spend their holidays at the same time, while tens of thousands of students' summer programs and meals are provided directly at the residence by the day-care Erzsébet Camps. In addition to summer camps, children can also take part in sleep-in class trips and Christmas events. Erzsébet Camps programmes, as Minister of State said, have been attended from 90,000 to 130,000 from 2016 to 2019, and are expected to reach camping capacity of up to 180-200 thousand by amending the law and infrastructural developments. On this basis, the foundation plans the camps and programmes along a long-term concept, which typically take place at the camps in Zanka and Fonyódliget, which it owns. Erzsébet Tábor Kft., which is wholly owned by the Foundation, operates these camps on the shore of Lake Balaton. You're gonna end up dead. This proposal contains the necessary additions and clarifications to the implementation of the Erzsébet camps, which are necessary for long-term operation. The bill would introduce the following provisions: through the interpretation provisions, the basic concepts relating to the organisation and financing of the camp are clearly defined, thus aiming at the precise definition of the public task and the implementation of those tasks as envisaged. It defines the concept and types of Erzsébet camps, as we have heard, are daycare, sleep-in, and family camps. Erzsébet will establish the public benefit status of the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, as a public service body, and will help ensure a high level of public service and a more efficient use of public funds. It sets out the annual provision of public budget support, which is necessary for the performance of the priority public service mission. It names the personal data generated in connection with the organisation of the camp, which is in accordance with the applicable data protection provisions. In my view, the proposal aims to increase the efficiency of public service provision, and we can see that the government treats the Erzsébet camps providing for the physical, mental and spiritual development of children as a key public task, which should be supported by all representatives who feel responsible for the Hungarian children. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the presentation of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-193	Thank you very much. Member Tamás Csányi, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as a Hungarian People's Party, can support the bill, but, of course, I would like to take advantage of my time and have some dialogue with you, Mr Secretary of State. We support the proposal, because we can identify with the love of Hungarians, Hungary, sport, science and culture, and with the camping that focuses on the fundamental values of Christianity, we are very happy about this. We are also pleased that these camps promote physical, spiritual, and spiritual development in order to build our children. They contribute to children's socialisation, relaxation, knowledge-enhancing, improving the life situation of children in need of social life in the bill. We are particularly pleased that it will be included in the centenary of the Trianon peace dictatorship in 2020 that the possibility of camping children in the territory of the truncated country is also possible in the case of Hungarians from abroad. All of this is intended to help strengthen existing ties. We can only support that. At the same time, when we look at the bill, honourable Secretary of State, we have certain questions that have already been answered, but I would only ask because I would like to hear it from you, and, of course, in the expo, we have a little bit of a turn on the 3. You, and in this, we can find interesting things that would be useful if we could get an explanation. Here the law clarifies that this foundation, Erzsébet for Children in the Carpathian Basin, is a public benefit organization which performs its activities as a public service. But right away, paragraph 3 mentions an exclusive-owned economic company, which, if I was just paying close attention, perhaps Erzsébet Tábor Kft. We can greet you in person. This can, of course, be fine so far, because the following paragraph 4 explains why this is necessary: this will be the operation of the camping sites owned by the Foundation, the operation of real estate, or perhaps it has done so far. However, I would ask you to clarify to us, Mr State Secretary, why it is involved in supplying it through its own company, registered in Hungary or in another state, or through another organisation with an independent legal personality. This is exciting, too, because when we read the general explanation, the third point is: In relation to the article, we find this: the company of its own holding may act as a registered contributor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My question is therefore clear, as it results in some chaotic situation for me as to what kind of company we are talking about, how many companies we are talking about, companies registered in Hungary, companies established abroad, companies incorporated in another state, whose task it is to carry out maintenance and operation in the camp. [[21.40]] And speaking of which, let me make one more comment on paragraph 6 when the law provides for the establishment of campsites. Accordingly, the question seems entirely legitimate to us that if they think about setting up campsites, then where, from what source, from what camping sites, how much they will want to achieve, and when and during what period this will be possible. In the second part of my speech, please allow me to make critical comments and suggestions, from the circle which complicates camping; in fact, we are talking about the circle of educators, who in many cases, as well as the delegation, referral, supervision of children, are performing outstanding results and outstanding tasks in this area. Their voice is worth putting on the speaker here, and it is worth listening to the comments that have been made to me and made available on the Internet. In the first instance, I would like to offer you the overweight of administrative tasks, which is worth considering. For teachers it is not possible, for example, to participate in three camps during a summer holiday, because it is possible for teachers to participate in two day-care camps and a sleep-in camp, for example, that each time the teacher has to bring the data of this student into the system. There is no possibility, as in the past, that these data could be transferred once. Please consider that teachers are already burdened, and this unjustified overwork should not be done by them, and this can be done on a one-time basis. We are pleased, as I mentioned earlier, that Hungarians across the border are also given an opportunity in the Erzsébet camps, but at the same time they have reported such interesting experiences about the Zánka camp that there are indeed some groups that have not spoken a word, a voice in Hungarian at all. It was basically about the accommodation of Ukrainian groups, let's say, as a guest, about their sightings and camping. I think that we really need to strive for the integrity of Hungarians across the border to promote camping, but then we really must insist that Hungarians from across the border can come to Lake Balaton. A very interesting and perhaps important moment may be what I would like to recommend to you: this is the complete lack of age-class selection in relation to camping. If you are a practicing educator, you know very well that if you are camped at the same time as juniors and senior students at a certain campsite, it is essential that this will generate some tension. What can we think of in this case? First of all, that there are common sports competitions that are very good and saving, but, of course, there is not the same chance that juniors will run against seniors; whether we say, a win-win is very difficult for them. In addition, there are, of course, concerts and evening programs, in which participation also does not offer the same results, let's say, for a junior and a senior. This creates undue tension in lower-school educators, especially about how to protect the young from older ones, since they would go after them, of course. This should be considered, if there is a possibility, please consider this. I would like to make another critical comment on the Zánka camp. This is mainly related to cleaning. There were complaints from educators that the tour was being cleaned, but they did not find the right means for daily routine cleaning, and there were no tools available to clean, say, the bathroom, water rooms. This is amazing to me, because these are penny-penny things, and virtually tools that are essential for the hygiene of a group of children and the quality of camping. It is also worth considering that perhaps the economic company operating the camp should pay attention to this. An important issue, which also appears as a negative, is the problem with food. In the past, teachers were very positive about the quality and quantity of meals. These were all very well, but I don't seem to know if it can be traced back to a lack of resources or anything else, perhaps you will tell us that the quality of the food is deteriorating and the amount of food that children receive is also decreasing; I can talk about Zánka in 2019. Based on the feedback of teachers, the CBA voucher also causes some problems, especially for teachers living in the countryside, as it is a food chain that is very difficult to reach for rural people, whether in small towns or even in smaller towns. This, too, might be worth considering how this could be triggered, as there are serious difficulties in its use. In a few words, I would also like to talk about daycare camps, where I would also like to highlight the way in which it would be worth considering how to reduce the burden of administration, and what I consider very important, and complaints from many places, are that these daycare camps will be judged very late by those who do so. This means, let's say, with an example, that there are times when teachers get a green light five days before the camp starts, that they can go to the camp, have everything, it's all right, then he has to get the right tools, put everything together, and let's say if he falls in a weekend, then the organizers of daycare camps are in a very difficult situation. I would like to ask, with great respect, that we give the teachers the opportunity to properly prepare for the camp, to properly acquire the necessary equipment, and not to worry about a few days before the camp starts, that there will be no camp at all or there will be no camp. Speaking of daycare camps, I would like to say that I have received comments that these camps are mostly very good, because many programmes can be implemented and, in fact, the possibility of implementing the program is quite flexible, but it is very interesting that other sources suggest that they are very hard and very strict about what program and how they implement it in these daycare camps. They also dictate what means and from whom to obtain these camps. Here again we find a contradiction, dissonance, which you should also resolve, Mr Secretary of State, if you have information about all this. After all, I do not wish to talk about Fonyódliget, because my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz will tell me. I have already mentioned Zánka, and I would like to close with a positive conclusion, of course, because I can tell you about the good programs of the Zánka camp, and the children and teachers also like these programs, the organizers are flexible, they fulfill all wishes so to speak, so thank them. The children are enjoying themselves, enjoying the gift packages, and I think it is worth thanking all the teachers who participate in these camps at the end of my speech, organizing, giving their time and energy so that our children can really enjoy themselves during the summer, with the right knowledge and with the right experience during the summer holiday. I would like to say once again that we will support the bill despite all of this, but we look forward to the answers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-195	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, is next. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-196	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I hope that in this bill we can also preserve the unity that came up here in Parliament in the previous bill, although Congressman Arató has come off the pulpit, so I have some doubts that we will succeed. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] But in any case, I'll try. We have a very important bill ahead of us. As a youth leader, I was able to take part in the organisation and management of countless daycare and sleep-in camps. It should be said that these camps, which we have organized for young people and disadvantaged children, have been the most decisive experiences in my life, and I have to say that we see summer camping as a lifelong experience, community experience, friendship, experiences that children and young people can have there, which cannot be replaced anywhere else. [[21.50]] This is not a family activity, nor is it a school activity, but something completely different, freedom, sport, movement, joy, community games, friendship, reliability in games, obstacle competitions, and, of course, learning and learning. This is basically my attitude towards summer camps, and my personal experience is that there are many such good camps throughout Hungary. We are talking about the largest, the Erzsébet Camp and the Elizabeth Programme, because I think that all of us who are here in Parliament must be committed to the summer camping of children, where they can relax, relax, play, experience, and make new friends, and spend their free time usefully and in a community. Perhaps this is the most important, because in the present world, where there are many virtual communities, where leisure time often runs out of our hands, it is useless to spend the community, the real communities and the useful use of leisure are key concepts that definitely characterize the Erzsébet camps. Summer children's camps are also a relief for parents, because they can gain a few days of peace, and as parents, we know this from experience, and they can enjoy recreation while they can keep their children safe, where they feel comfortable, and are also taken care of. In addition to the camps organized by schools and sports associations, national Erzsébet camps are becoming increasingly popular every year, which provide children with a meaningful opportunity to relax during summer holidays. Erzsébet Camp is being attended by more and more people every year, in 2016, in 2017, more than 100 thousand people, in 2018, 126 thousand children, and in last summer more than ever, 130 thousand children participated in one of the Erzsébet Camps. I also had the opportunity to visit the Zánka camp with Minister Simicskó, and then he will speak on behalf of the KDNP faction about the activities there, and about the patriotic education, but I think that we too enjoyed staying there. The Erzsébet program also includes an opportunity to relax for families and pensioners outside sleep and day care camps. As the Secretary of State said, this was already separated in 2016, and in two separate operational forms, large family and old-age recreation and sleepover day care camps were legally separated, but it can be said that over the last eight years, one and a half million Hungarians had access to holiday opportunities under the Erzsébet programme. I think that this is a huge number, a very big word, and this bill is also about not stopping at this number, the one and a half million people, but more people can get to these camps even more repeatedly and then more widely. The participants of the Erzsébet Camps can participate in a number of cultural, knowledge, skills development, sports and entertainment programs, where they can learn about the importance of equal opportunities, the values of Hungarian culture, Christianity, sustainability and environmental protection. Our national government has been working for ten years to bring the Hungarian nation back together across borders. Thus, last summer Hungarian children from Hungary and abroad could camp together at the Transylvania site of the Erzsébet Camp. I think it's also a very important milestone in the life of the Elizabeth camps. Here I would like to respond in part to the question raised by my better fellow Member, who raised the Ukrainian children. Here, two things must be separated. On the one hand, the program has been going on for years next to Lake Venice, where the Hungarian government provides camping opportunities for Ukrainian children who lost one or both of their parents on the Ukrainian front during the war, and this is the Hungarian state's offer to give them such a recreational opportunity. I was there several times in person, and it was the first vacation in many of their lives. In addition, Zánkán was a camp co-financed or assisted by the State Secretary for National Policy, where Hungarian young people from Transcarpathia could camp together with Ukrainian young people from Transcarpathia to strengthen the experience of belonging. So there were only young people there in Zánkán who were young Ukrainians who were studying Hungarian and who live there effectively in areas of Hungarian majority or part of Hungarian majority. That may have been the point, Congressman, that is all I wanted to make clear that this is two different camps, and that is what this is all about. We consider it very important that the Erzsébet camps become, in addition to the many experiences, meeting points for Hungarian children from different parts of the Carpathian Basin. It is of great importance that Hungarian children living outside and in the mother country develop relationships and friendships in childhood, to accept, understand each other and to experience the experience of belonging. These camps help the campers to become responsible Hungarian citizens as adults, who stick together and can count on each other, making Hungary great and strong again. The bill before us aims to ensure that the resources needed to implement the Erzsébet camps continue to be available in the future, thus ensuring a high level of responsibilities so far. This bill states that children and families in need of social protection should be given priority during camping. Participation in the Erzsébet camps and the provision of a healthy meal of good quality can no longer be a question of money. In last summer's sleep camps, children had to pay a very symbolic amount for weekly care, meals and programs, but disadvantaged students could even buy this amount later. In addition, each camper could travel free of charge to Erzsébet Camp and then home. Erzsébet Camps are more popular year after year, for many disadvantaged children it is the biggest holiday of the year, where they can make friends and experience. I think the government's decision is joyful with regard to the Elizabeth camps. According to this decision, daycare camps can already be held. They are preparing, very serious renovations have been completed in Zánkán, Fonyódliget, or even in Transylvania in recent years. The government will soon decide whether to permit sleep camps in view of the epidemic situation or with special rules and limitations. I think it was the right decision, and we hope that, obviously, in a different way than in the previous years, because of the coronal virus epidemic, a slightly reduced content, perhaps in a smaller number, but the Hungarian children can enjoy the benefits of the Erzsébet camp and the benefits of community building and playing in the community as they have done in recent years. Camping is very important, I ask everyone to support this form of camping, just as the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-197	And now, Congressman Lajos Korózs, head speaker of the MSZP can speak. Here you go.
u2020-05-19-198	Thank you very much. Good evening. I would like to point out, fellow Members, that the MSZP supports any initiative that promotes, promotes, promotes and promotes the recreation, camping, recreation or acquisition of new knowledge for children. We also support the state's support and support for this, but it is not clear to me why this should be done in such a centralised manner as it is in this proposal, and of course I would like to ask the question in advance of what kind of approach they want to take. I would like to mention this later because I believe that, in addition to real estate, this is the most serious issue in this proposal. Among other things, I do not understand what interests are ultimately behind all of this, and who will ultimately benefit [[Nacsa Lawrence: The children.]] With all the money that's going to flow through the system across the state into someone's pocket, most likely. As compared to the law in force, even the condition that it does not play a profit-oriented market role is removed. I would like to emphasise this here, that this has practically been removed from the previous law. It is also unclear why there is no greater emphasis on the priority support for children in need and why there is no future provision for social leave for older people and disabled people. On the other hand, the law details things that do not seem to be very important and exciting, but that are very narrowly recorded. In the preamble to the proposal, they include, among other things, the following: The Erzsébet Camps provide the love of Hungarianism and of home knowledge, sport, science and culture, focusing on the fundamental values of Christianity, promoting physical, spiritual, intellectual development, recreation, entertainment, content and opportunity-creating individual or social experiences in order to positively transform the individual, community life outside the camp and facilitate its integration was not a point, but I note in the spirit of the belief that our children and grandchildren will once again make Hungary great with their talents, endurance and spiritual strength. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[22.00]] God forbid, I was melted. I think it is quite cynical in the first sentence of the explanatory statement that the Hungarian Parliament is committed to ensuring the long-term operation of the very successful, national-important camping programme, the Erzsébet camps and the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin since 2016. They are certainly committed to the latter, I think too, as it is the foundation to which the Zánka Children's and Youth Camp was handed over by the state with a law amendment in March 2016 and later the Fonyód real estate also used for the camping of children. This previous one struck me in the heart, because I was one of the first inhabitants of the Zanka camp when I was a child, and it opened when I finished seventh or eighth grade, I don't know exactly. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Well, let's get this straight. Erzsébet, close to the Diocese of Szeged-Csanad, became the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, as this foundation also received the tasks related to children's camps and youth programmes within the framework of the Erzsébet programme. At that time, the foundation received HUF 4.4 billion in budget support for the organisation of the camps and HUF 5.2 billion in the following year. Of course, the organization didn't have to pay a penny for them. Children's camps have been financed from public funds and from the budget of the resource portfolio ever since. Here is the point, my fellow Members of the House, because, according to the author, 15 years from the delivery, they can do whatever they want with the camp. The connection between the foundation and Fidesz is clear, as the Diocese of Szeged-Chanad itself is not too far from the governing party. As has been said elsewhere, the Zánka camp continues to suspect that valuable property can be transferred from government-side foundations to private actors. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In connection with the total value of the transferred properties in Zánka and Fonyód, my group leader, Bertalan Tóth, had previously submitted a request for information in the public interest to MNV. This is how it was found that the estimated value of the real estate transferred was HUF 17.5 billion. This does not mean, of course, that the real estate could be sold for that much, but this huge fortune would have been worth the state's exact justification for giving it to this foundation for free. I am detailing this among other things, my fellow Members, because this foundation is very much in my pants. I believe that by adopting this law and the law, this story will not end, this story will be here for years before the Hungarian Parliament. Let's look at this year's budget. This year's budget is basically HUF 12.2 billion on this line, but in recent years funds have been transferred from the Erzsébet camps to other purposes. They answered our earlier written question to clarify the facts that between 2017 and 2019 a total of HUF 26 billion was spent on the renovation and expansion of the Erzsébet camps, including HUF 1 billion in 17 and HUF 8.5 billion in 18 and HUF 16.4 billion in 2019. Let's look at the justification, because this is also extremely important. This law is necessary, according to the justification, in order to ensure that the resources necessary for the implementation of the camps, thus ensuring a high level of provision of tasks, are constantly ensured. The interpretation provisions are rather strange, given the fact that they include, for example, camping: the special purpose of the accommodation where the structures and community spaces within the natural conditions and within the framework of them constitute a specific system, and during which the camping of children is carried out, Camping 3: all the events carried out by the camp organizer at the camp site, in which the campers involved in it have special socialisation activities and the co-existence of the self-regulating community for a predetermined period. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I don't think it's very appropriate to legislate such provisions. The explanatory statement adds such explanations:. The statutory definition of camping and camping ensures that the public service is carried out in a place suitable for the desired functions. Who can understand that? Who understands that? I'm not. One of the most interesting points of the proposal is why, compared to the law in force, the provision on the Erzsébet programme law is that the Erzsébet programme is the 1st programme. a social programme and service organised and carried out for the purposes of the implementation of Section 2 of the Act, supported by the State, which does not play a profit-making role in the market. This was the original Erzsébet Programme Act 2. Paragraph 1 of Article 4 (1) of the Act. Therefore, this bill does not state that this does not play a profit-oriented market role, while taxpayers' money will continue to be included in it. Dear House, It seems to me that the kind of social recreation that would have helped the elderly, pensioners and people with disabilities in need will be permanently eliminated, as I have already referred to above. One more thing. According to the Erzsébet Programme Act which expired, it was necessary to undertake the transfer of Fonyód's property that the approach and proper use of the municipality-owned free beach would not be hindered. Although this transaction is already completed, it is a question that if the obligations to leave the beach entrance free are no longer provided for by law, the parties will be free to amend the contract. We do not know how this proposal relates to those who appeared months ago that the government wants to organize awareness-forming camps. I have read a press article in which the government's new free camping program for 16-18-year-olds, the Wanderers 10000, is aimed at deepening healthy Christian national values and visions, creating awareness and addressing the souls of young people. According to the news, the Hungarian Institute for Research would be entrusted by the government to address young people, one of the tools of this particular address, and its location would be the "Vándordiák 10000" camping program. According to reports, Szilárd Demeter, Director General of Petőfi Literary Museum is also involved in the program. Anyway, I'm looking forward to what's going to happen in this case. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, In this form the MSZP cannot support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-05-19-199	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, notary, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-05-19-200	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, This proposal should have deserved, as was the case with the previous proposal, not hidden at such a late hour, but to have a substantive debate on this otherwise important issue. Let me begin by saying, although I suspect that Mr Secretary of State will use, in his closing statement, the opportunity and protection of the closing will be fine to draw negative criticism or criticism of the opposition. However, I would like to make it clear to the impartial students that, of course, the opposition agrees, and the Democratic Coalition would be happy to support it at any time, if it were just for itself that the government would spend money on the camping of disadvantaged children or, in general, Hungarian children and students in an environment appropriate to their spiritual development and well-being. So I have to say, there's definitely no argument between us so far. There is no discussion between us either that this part of the Erzsébet programme's camping of children fulfils many of these goals. I think there are many positive experiences, and there have been negative experiences, but in the case of such a mass program, I have to say that it is natural, obviously there is always criticism. We see that in recent times this has been a program that has helped thousands of children to get to camp, get a community experience, work something off their disadvantages, or get an experience that is positive for them. What's wrong with this program? I would not repeat the detailed analysis of the law, which Mr Korózs has already done in an exhaustive manner, so I would focus only on two very important points in this, just so that I do not disappoint Congressman Nacsa. [[22.10]] One point is, and I cannot go without saying, that all this intention and all this goal will be achieved by the government in a construction that makes the flow of public funds uncontrollable, opaque and at least suspicious. The State has given the real estate or part of the real estate to the money for this purpose, then gives the public money for the operation, gives the money for the investments, and then says that you take responsibility for this not as a foundation, but that you can still outsource it to companies. This is the usual fidesz technique, the subcontractors will appear, and then the subcontractors will be among those to whom this system is dribbling money. And that's a big problem. As good as the intention is, it is so bad that behind this program the fidesz oligarch world of oligarchs, the entrepreneurial circle formed by friends, relatives, and business partners of Fidesz's leadership. To give an example today, this type of timing really couldn't have been better, as this coincidence has brought it, we have just learned with great pleasure today, you are obviously less pleased that the property in Zánka and Fonyód is the property in Fonyód, which stood empty for a long time, in a rather problematic way, but the property in Zánka has not made much progress in recent years. Here's to guess, fellow Members, whose company won this HUF 22 billion investment. You're right, Congressman, it was won by the consortium led by Lőrinc Mészáros. The government's favourite gasman is pulling your palate out of this program. We have to say, unfortunately, this is not a one-off case, it is systematically built this story. Unfortunately, the whole point of this story is that, while there is a positive goal, there is an opaque system that does not serve this purpose, but serves to hide the public funds for this purpose and to channel it into the right channels; it is already appropriate for you. So I have to say, and I do not want to talk about these stories for a long time, there have been a number of such problematic stories with luxury fork rentals and a lot of other things, that we agree with the goal, we support it, and we disagree with the way we solve it, because it is not in the interests of children and not of the country, but in the interests of certain business circles that you prefer, and we cannot accept it. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-05-19-202	Thank you very much for the floor. I will respond very briefly to this law, although I planned much longer, but at this late hour, I really don't want to waste anyone's time. More and more, the Erzsébet Camps Act seems to be the case of a private discharge of public money into sheep's clothing year after year. The current proposal repeals the 2012 Erzsébet programme law, despite the fact that Erzsébet camps provide almost free camping opportunities to approximately 130 thousand children every year, including those in need and Hungarians across borders. The popularity of the camps is assessed year after year as a government success, so there is no reasonable reason to change the law that the role of the Erzsébet program has been abandoned. Instead, I would like to say that, after a legislative amendment made last year, people with disabilities and pensioners have been successfully removed from their holiday beneficiaries, there really is no point in talking about a complete programme. In fact, this sound legislative amendment or rather the replacement of the law is an excuse to delete parts of the 2012 law that still convey real values, which are clearly of concern to the government, and to make payments to a private company as much as possible. Moreover, the proposed amendment was made at the time of the emergency, but there is no reference to it, nor a supplementary regulation, which would stress the disadvantage-compensating role of the Erzsébet camps or day-to-day Erzsébet camps. To compensate for the disadvantages of children who are excluded from digital education, thematic, sleep and day care camps targeting disadvantaged children could provide special assistance this year, and the conditions for this could be based on legislation. To the best of my knowledge, the Erzsébet camps move to online space this year, there is still no decision on sleep-in camps, and there has been a thematic discussion on the organisation of disadvantaged day care and child care. However, instead of starting to work on how to reduce the lateness of the most disadvantaged children in the Erzsébet programme due to the digital transition, it was possible, instead, to draft a simplified bill with the aim of making foundation cooperation of an exclusive economic interest, apart from the surrounding and reporting records. The new law removes the part that the Foundation can cooperate with civil society organisations and other legal and natural persons to carry out its tasks in connection with the Erzsébet programme, the neutral role is removed, and a initially non-profit-making programme will be placed on the market by placing it on a profit-driven industrial base. Tell me why. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-05-19-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Let's be very short and simple. Is it intended to support the camping of children, especially when it comes to socially disadvantaged children and families? Of course I do. Can it be supported that the state renounces tens of billions of forints of wealth and makes these camps a suspicious Fidesz charterer of the church toy? Of course, it's not eligible. Can it be supported that these camps will be refurbished again from tens of thousands of millions of forints with public money and thus further increase the value of the assets that are not coming from the state? No, that's not eligible either. Can it be supported that this huge investment, as it is slowly in Hungary, is carried out by the various companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, the companies of his children, and the companies of his friends, so that 10-20-30-40-50 percent of this is brought back to Viktor Orbán? No, that's not eligible either. Can you support the fact that the state, which is supposed to be committed to a world-neutral education, should have something like this? From a state-religious approach, should you look at this opportunity to push with all your might the ideology that, although it is true that it does not support the ruling parties? Of course, this is not eligible either. So there seems to be only one argument in favour of the Erzsébet camps being operated in this way and in such a way, but this one argument appears only at the level of beautiful words in the justification, but this is not the case in terms of real goals. Besides, it is an infinite concern, and I was fine to say that the tens of billions of public money are once again being channeled into the circle of friends of Lőrinc Mészáros, or Viktor Orbán. And the more cynical thing that it is done to support children and families in need, to provide for their experiences, is hard for me to imagine, so it's even more severe than your usual mean, petty pace. If you still have the strength, you should be ashamed when you're free. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-205	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mrs Bernadett Wind, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2020-05-19-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow citizens, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'm really sorry that we're talking about this bill between 10:00 and 11:00 p.m., because I think the whole country should know exactly what's going on here. I think in hell there's a special knickers trained for people hiding behind children trying to make immoral money, and I think that under no circumstances can you talk about this bill with such a pious face as our fellow Members at KDNP did. [[22.20]] I think it's quite facial toaster, and I really mean what's going on here, and sometimes I think that you guys have a limit in morals, and you say you're not going to sink to that level, but I see that it's a very bottomless knickers that you've started to descend into. Technically, Fidesz and KDNP could have one of these slogans: the more money, the less public interest. If you want, they'll use it in their electoral records, because that's what's most true of you. Everyone remembers how this story began when they realized how much money there was in the food vouchers, they brought in the distribution of Elizabeth vouchers and organized overpriced camps. In the beginning, it was a social retreat, and it was said that the Erzsébet programme will be the largest social programme of all time, without state support, and will be operated with money from vouchers, and they also referred to this when the voucher market was nationalised. Then, when there was a problem with nationalising the voucher market in the EU, the funding of the programme was transferred to the budget in the midst of loud buzzes, and we started with HUF 5 billion a year. There was already a lot of press at the time, and many of us, from fact-finding journalists to representatives, have worked to discover which companies and which opaque business networks are draining taxpayers' money under the auspices of the Elizabeth Programme. We were sitting here, remember, I was sitting there somewhere in the opposition, but it was a night's clock when a law was passed that couldn't be asked where all the public money from the Erzsébet camps would go. Soon after that, I went to Zánka quite a lot, and I have my blog post open to me, and many blog posts deal with this issue. For example, one of them is called "Whom and why has the Zanka School been in the way for 23 years? Yeah, it's Egry's case. Because Egry is a patina school, a vocational high school, a vocational high school and a college, and 130 of them were students, and 80 of them were college students. I discovered a very interesting story while valton security guards tried to get me out of the area under the supervision of the foundation. I'm not the one who's obsessed with persecution, that's what happened. I went to school myself to understand that if the foundation says that camping is not in the way of school, then why should they be dropped off, why should they be locked up, and why should these children and these teachers be scattered around the world. To this day, I didn't get an answer to who did this and why they did it, but they practically let that great school go to the wind, and I can tell you that it was a damage that had to be written on your pretty big list. Further on, yes, we managed to destroy the Egry, then we continued this story, trying to find out where the money goes here under the pretext of the Erzsébet Camps, and of course not to go too far, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin is constantly in the picture. We are in 16 when the government donated 17 and a half billion Fonyód and Zánka real estates to the foundation, and it has already been said here in the debate that it did so in a way that, in 15 years' time, they could practically dispose of these properties on a market basis. So from now on, they didn't even bother to guarantee that these properties had to remain in the service of the children at the foundation. Of course, it didn't take long, really today's news, that the 26 billion of these 26 billion were refurbished to the companies of the Mészáros family. I would like to say this then, that it should also be said in the Hungarian Parliament, exactly what happened here. For the camp development in Zánka, a net procurement of 16.7 billion was published, which is the Fejér-B.A.L. Zrt. and Zalakaros Szabadics Közmű és Építő Zrt. It was won in consortium form, and the Fonyódligeti was won by Mészáros companies and Zoltán Szabados at a net price of HUF 4.88 billion. And then the story is still not over here, because in an epidemic situation, what should be dealt with rather than making this business worse. Four to five billion in budget support was added to 2.3 billion from the budget, plus 11.4 billion for stockpiling. So if you add all this up, it is clear that the initial amount has been multiplied, that the epidemic threat has not prevented you, that the operation of a successful school has not prevented you, and that in a crappy way even requests for data in the public interest have been blocked. So, basically, they're constantly fishing in this mess, while there's not a time when they don't carry children around in front of them as shields and tell them how successful this is. I would be, look, the happiest thing is that if all the forints and pennies of this program were to be used for the children, I would be the happiest person to go directly to the children, but the thing is that I keep seeing the Ripper Ripper, and not because I see him everywhere, but because he's really behind the renovations. They also explain to me, be kind, because it was not possible to explain when they made the amendment of the law, why the relevant requests for information had to be excluded from the list of public interest data requests, and explain why these two patina properties would be alienated to the foundation in 15 years' time. So, you owe me an explanation or two. By the way, speaking of the bill, it really is a crown on top of this whole building, not the virus I'm referring to, but it really is a NER private business that is an example of how you operate. As I mentioned, as money is put into it, the public interest seems to disappear, and as vampires, these oligarchs who spat at taxpayers appear. Last year, in a salad law, the social character of the program was virtually eliminated, so they pulled that word out of it. Now we are talking about the fact that pensioners cannot be included in the program, nor can our disabled or partially disabled fellow citizens be included in this program. Now, if it's something social, then why are you putting these people out of participation? Be nice and explain yourself. Moreover, I do not see any guarantee here in the text of the bill, or in the exposé you set up, or in the comments that families in need or with low incomes will not be excluded. 'Cause if this goes on, it's gonna be more and more a tendency for everyone in need to get out of here, and I don't know exactly who's gonna take their place. 'Cause it is, so now it's not a social retreat, it's a camping program. By the way, I wanted to read this explanation because it was written that this law was necessary because, I quote, the abolition of social leave within the Erzsébet programme has resulted in the emptying of the programme itself. I know it's late, but maybe this video will be watched by voters, and then they'll understand why this story is a snake biteing itself, because it's basically a confession that you've emptied the program first to make room for a program that will replace the previous social program. So that's what they wrote. The elimination of social recreation within the Erzsébet programme, which you have done, has resulted in the evacuation of the program itself, which is why social services will simply be camped out. And then here's the situation that many people have already talked about, that there is also a problem with the preamble to this law. It includes this Christian national approach, which I have considered to be triple problematic since the patriotic education program on NAT. I don't know what you're up to in these camps, but I don't feel good about making Hungary great again and in other terms. So what exactly is going to happen there? I'd like to hear it. The other is that you were talking about sustainability, but environmental protection and climate protection are not in the preamble, only this Christian national line. So that's not important? Why don't you put it in the preamble, too, if it's so much 21. C.E., that's what the Secretary of State said. Well, there's gonna be centuries of circumstances waiting for the kids, so let's say, with that many billions, I can imagine what kind of conditions you can do. But why isn't this green line in the preamble, if it's so important to you? And then there's this data management section, which is why we shouldn't go away, because I really want to know why people there are keeping their data for five years. Why? Tell me why you need a home address, a phone number, an e-mail address level to keep the data of everyone who was in these camps. I would also like to point out that the foundation had an obligation, which specifically applies to Fonyod, that it is necessary to ensure the exit to Lake Balaton, and this has now disappeared from the bill. [[22.30]] The public beach in Fonyód has been removed from the bill to ensure the access and proper use of the property, so from now on the foundation will not have such an obligation. Then what exactly is going to happen on the shore of Lake Balaton on Fonyód? I think a lot of people will be asking that question soon, if the virus situation allows us to go to the beach. Gentlemen, I think it is no coincidence that the debate of this bill has come so late, and it is no coincidence that you constantly emphasized the social part and child-centredness in your introduction, and forgot to talk about Lőrinc Mészáros, forgot to talk about the closed Egry, forgot to mention that in 15 years you will sell all the properties that this foundation has now received for a lot of money. They forgot to talk about excluding pensioners and a significant proportion of our disabled fellow citizens from the program. They forgot to talk about the specific meaning of this Christian national approach in these camps. They also forgot to mention that environmental and climate protection, if it's important in words, is not in the preamble, why this steep data management section is for what, if anyone turns around, your data will be processed for five years. And, yes, the question of getting out to Lake Balaton is also a big question, because I think that Fonyódon will be interested in many people. I expect answers to all my questions, and I am here to wait for your comments at this late hour, because we will have no other opportunity to discuss this. The answers to our written questions are regularly personal, often subpar. I very much hope that if we confront in person, then they will answer me and the public of the country to the question of how they wish to put public money and public interest in the background of oligarchs and other intentions, keeping children in front of them as shields. Thank you.
u2020-05-19-207	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Dear Parliament, For two minutes, Nacha Lawrence asked for a word. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-208	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am glad that we could give Lajos Korózs a few nostalgic moments, that when he was as cheerful as the squirrel up on the tree, and before János Kádár at the opening of the first Erzsébet camp, he could perform this in Parliament nostalgically in 2020 [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz: What's wrong with that?]] We're happy for you. I think it's outrageous that he's trying to imply that it would have been better for the state to privatize this during your time, as you have planned, how good it would have been to build a residential park, build a holiday park, and then privatized Zánka's problem would have been solved. This is what you planned, only in 2010 the voters intervened to prevent this. It is clear that your problem is that it is written in the letter that it is your problem: "Hungarians," "Nationals" and "Christians." Of course, if Bernadett Wind understood these words, he would realize that this includes the protection of the created world, because anyone who thinks so responsibly in a nation and as a Christian is automatic for that to happen. And I would ask Turdai Bence to tell us that we should be world neutral. No, we shouldn't be, and the camps don't have to be world-neutrally neutral. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Because we have a value choice, we have a solid value choice, we have values that we stick to, and that's why we don't think that something that's grounded, neutral should happen in a camp like this. And if Congresswoman Bernadett Szél has already mentioned what kind of buggers there are and where they are, then, Congresswoman, you also know very well that there are panties where there are those who, by pushing children in front of them, constantly stir up the mood and tension, like you have done in the case of Fo, for example, and in countless other cases. So if that's what you're referring to, then you're going to have to stop making children feel political and tense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató, notary.
u2020-05-19-210	Thank you very much. I think there is one thing that is certainly worth clarifying: the intentions that Congressman Nacsa has been talking about. You have spoken of these intentions, you have said so, but it was not so, you remember this wrong, Congressman, and then I would be very polite to put it this way, much more harshly, but it just doesn't make sense. On the other hand, I have to tell you, as far as raising government propaganda to camping level is concerned, that it does not mean value, it does not mean value choice, but, of course, it can be written in the preamble to a law. Since we have recalled the good memories of the pioneers here, I have to tell you that the pioneers had red ties and, like the squirrel on the tree, though I see little ideological content in them, but let's say it was in the 12 points of the pioneers that they had to prepare, I believe, for the KISZ membership. I was a pioneer too, you may not have been, but you were a good part of our older fellow Members, and I am sure that this has made neither of us Communists, nor of me, nor of them. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Lajos Korózs!]] So I have to say that you can write in the law twenty-seven times that there will be a wow, but very Christian, national education, which, thanks to God, the children will be excellently able to endure as well as the pioneer camps. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Two minutes to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2020-05-19-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear KDNP, Let me get this for myself. I was kneeling at the Cathedral in Pécs when a significant part of your party and the governing parties were still members of MSZMP. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So you can start by apologizing to me, preferably quickly.
u2020-05-19-213	Thank you very much. István Simicskó, KDNP.
u2020-05-19-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reassure everyone that this is a good cause, this bill that lies before us is eligible, so I would ask everyone to reconsider and think about how they can do good during today, since we are here at this late hour, so it's 11:00, and it's almost tomorrow, which is World Bee Day. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So I see an attitude similar to hardworking and hardworking bees here at today's parliamentary meeting. Everyone is very active, and this is joyful, and there are certainly a lot of people who have contributed to such an important bill, and I suppose they will. Allow me to give you a personal example, as I myself have been to the Erzsébet camps several times, Zánka, I have spoken to several children who have been there, and have spent their time there, and I think it is safe to say in this House that my experience was that there were excellent programs, children love, enjoy, go to these camps, so I do not think that any pointless, overpoliticized thing needs to be included. So believe me, this is a good and noble matter. It gives our children the opportunity to spend meaningful, quality, useful time on vacations. For the tens of thousands of children and for a total of about 1.5 million people who have participated in the Elizabeth and Elizabeth camps, this is a huge opportunity for everyone. Here, it was a criticism of what this camp can give to children that is Christian and national. I believe that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has said that this really gives us a set of values or tries to lay certain foundations in our young people's values and thinking. But what is education about? That's what parenting's all about. Let me quote Goethe. What can we give our children, what is the best we can give our children? Roots and wings. And it's not from the devil. The roots mean to strengthen precisely the consciousness of identity, to know where it belongs, where it comes from, what values it brings to the world itself, and obviously it must be able to remain Hungarian in this globalised world, and obviously it can still travel, see many cultures and values, and learn a lot, but it is important that we give the roots to our children at these camps as well. To give wings, Goethe wrote and left it for us, that there must be great goals for every talented and young child, so that he can achieve, yes, great goals, but I think the consciousness of identity is a fundamental and important thing, and these camps just confirm such a sense of identity. There were Hungarian children from the Carpathian Basin, there were poor Hungarian children from Transcarpathia, so this is also ideal for community building and good. Let me say another word about the day of heroes in these camps every Wednesday, so let's call it a professional meeting with excellent people who, both in the police and military, as well as in the military, firefighters and firefighters, have saved the lives of many, many people, and can meet personally with representatives of young people and children of these professions, and who knows, I am not saying that they can get a lifetime experience, but we can give our children a chance to meet people who serve our community and to get to know them personally and also their profession; they can help them in this way also in choosing careers. I believe that these are all useful programmes for children, so I must say that in this sense, of course, we can say that they are part of patriotic education. Because what is patriotic education? The education based on the love of our country is that if we respect our past, our culture, our ancestors that they left us, and we carry it on, and someday we will give the flag to our children, I think they are not thoughts of the devil, or even positive thoughts. [[22.40]] If we respect our past, our culture, our ancestors, which they left us, and we carry on, and we pass on the flag to our children someday, I don't think these are thoughts of the devil, or even positive thoughts. On the other hand, I do not understand these kinds of ideas, and all sorts of pointless comments, because in itself this is a noble task, a noble cause. And let me really thank you for the fact that the Secretary-General of the Foundation is here, in the person of Mr. Tibor Hornyák, whom I have met several times in the camp, it is certainly his concern for the camp, and he is doing his job fairly and forward-lookingly. So I would like to ask you to support the bill before us, and I trust that you will resolve the future of the Elizabeth camps in a stable way, in the long term. Therefore, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-215	Thank you very much, Congressman Simicskó, notary. The next scheduled speaker is Adam Steinmetz, Member Jobbik.
u2020-05-19-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us on the Erzsébet camps, at least the preamble to this is as follows: the Erzsébet camps contribute to improving the life situation of children, in particular by providing healthy meals, services to help them reach health at their age, and the possibility of active recreation. Well, these are important and supportive objectives, as is important and must be supported by the state's priority in protecting the health of children and, above all, in the camping of children in need. And speaking of this, it would also be a matter to expect and to be resolved that our unborn children should be born in the hospital closest to their home, or that the sick children should receive the necessary health care at the hospital nearest to their home. This was ensured in the Marcal district, especially in the Marcal hospital for decades, but unfortunately, thanks to the Fidesz government, the obstetric gynecology sooner, later the children's class ceased, closed, and thanks to this, pregnant mothers and sick children and their parents have to travel 60 kilometers to receive health care services. It's definitely not an ideal condition, and I'm just putting it mildly. But back to the bill and the Elizabeth camps, I'd like to invite Mr. Secretary of State on an imaginary journey, get into a helicopter in Marcali, excuse me, a motor vehicle, and head northeast to Fonyódliget. What are we going to see, Mr. Secretary? We can see that you have given a one and a half kilometer long property on the shore of Lake Balaton, which was previously estimated at HUF 17.5 billion along with its zánkas. This property also has its own sports field and its own Balaton beach, which previously provided the camping of 900 children. And at the moment, we see... what do we see? Not the construction, the construction, but the phase of destruction. Last year, no child was allowed to enjoy Fonyódliget within the Erzsébet camp, and it is not expected this year, and not primarily thanks to the coronal virus epidemic, but because the conditions are not given. The people of Somogy do not really understand, and be kind enough to answer why it was necessary to give a property worth so many billion forints, a state-owned property to a foundation, and also to own a foundation with several members of the board of trustees connected to the present power with thousands of threads. We don't understand, we understand, we just disagree. It is not clear to the people of Somogy that the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, with the money for the development of 26 billion forints, is actually spending on the camp in Fonyódliget, where, once again, no construction is going on, but the demolition of wooden houses, the demolition of the interior of buildings, the demolition of water blocks. To this day, if we go out into the area, we can see this. It is not clear either, and the law provides that the operation of the Erzsébet camps will be carried out by companies or companies registered abroad in the future. This is strange because it is not provided by Hungarian businesses; for example, local businesses such as Fonyód, which have been hosting festivals at high standards for many years, such as the Fonyód sausage festival and other events, who would otherwise pay taxes locally. Speaking of which, the municipality of Fonyód has a significant interest in taking the car tax, and not least because of the lack of child relief in Fonyódliget, it is now also a loss of tax revenue of a million per year when many local residents are waiting for help from the municipality in the situation caused by the coronal virus epidemic. And allow me, Minister of State, to express the concern of local residents, that in the future some of this camp will end up in some of the economic circles known to everyone, who will build a luxury yacht port and possibly luxury apartments on this very valuable Balaton beach property. So please reassure us that this will not happen in the future, and I would like to thank you very much, and I would also like you to take guarantees on behalf of and on behalf of the Government of Hungary. And then, as a representative of the Somogy people, I have to ask questions, like why the children's camp in Fonyódliget came from state property to a foundation. Why are there among the curators of this foundation people connected to Fidesz, the current power? Why can't local companies and local businesses provide camping for children in Fonyódliget? What is the guarantee that these properties will not become part of the economic circles I mentioned earlier, namely Lőrinc Mészáros's interests? And last but not least, Secretary of State, please tell me when the children's resort in Fonyódliget will finally be in a fit state for children's recreation. We're waiting for answers to the questions you've asked. Thank you for listening.
u2020-05-19-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Speaking in advance Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-05-19-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr István Simicskó for drawing attention to the fact that he is sitting here in the box. I would also like to thank Gyula Budai for staying here, because I hope that there is no conflict between the two people, because in 2017 Gyula Budai considered it outrageous and unacceptable that Tibor Hornyák rented a luxury villa for 110 thousand forints a day. Despite having held a press conference at the time, Congressman, and I hope that this has been... [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Journalist question!]] But in the end, they responded to it, and at that time he expressed a great distaste for what had happened at that time on behalf of Secretary-General Hornyak. We hope that this kind of urination has ceased on the part of Mr Secretary-General, although he has not been in the press so much lately, then quite a lot. Let me join you in listening to Mr Simicskó, and I agree that it is very important for children to experience the experience of taking part in camping, of spending time with many children from different parts of our country, even with Hungarian children across borders. [[22.50]] It's all right. We also agree that children should take part in the occupation, that we love our country, that we agree on a lot of things, but we do not agree that, hiding behind the children, serious public money has been stolen here for long, long years. When Mr Kovács spoke about the more efficient use of public funds, we understand what this means when translated into Hungarian, how more money can be stolen even more effectively. The very sad thing is that I join my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, with my fellow Member, Mr Arató, my fellow Member from Turda, is that it may be very disgusting because we are using the children here, and slowly because of what created them, the reason for which the Elizabeth programme, the camping at the time, was carried out, is now over. You also acknowledge in this bill that the programme has been completely neutered, and in essence it will cease to exist, for which it was created. Which I would like to join, and I also asked for a word on what kind of robbery is the kidnapping of the property, because within 15 years, it will be renovated with a lot of money, once the renovation is completed, and then within 15 years, who knows what will happen to these properties. We have a feeling that on the day that this is over, these 15 years will be over, and from then on, no holiday will take place in these properties from the next day, and that the property may not be owned by the person who owns it now, let's say, this foundation or the Diocese of Chanád County. What is important, and my fellow Member has already mentioned to me that someone should explain to me why this foundation has to keep these personal data for five years, even health data, although it has been included that health and non-winning applicants can only be processed by the end of the year, but all the others who have ever set foot in the camp area are kept and processed for five years. Somebody tell me why this is necessary. Let me share a personal experience that my children also participated in Camp Elizabeth. In addition, not on a social basis, but on a social basis, I paid the price of the camp, before it becomes news, we know the government media, how it works. I'm not gonna tell you. They had a good time. It wasn't all right, they had fun, but how much money, and then I asked you in a written question, how much money you spend on a child, look for it, knife opener, how much money you spend. It is about their meals, their accommodations, what conditions they are often under, and not always the food is fine. Let's just say they can't leave the camp, we even agree, because they should take care of the kids, and that's what we submitted, the buffet, the buffet, the buffet, who owns it, and at what horrific price you're giving the kids the products they want to buy in addition! That's why there's a problem. There's a lot to talk about. But what I had was just a life-stranger, the propaganda they came home with. I'm sorry, it was lucky I opened it, not them. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I opened the little bag they got, and it was years ago, and I think it's been worse since then, because they weren't so vicious at the time, but even then I said that maybe it was over the line. That is why we opposition representatives say that if I listen to you, Congressman, then I believe that there will be no bad intentions in this, because only good things will be done here with the children. But I would add that the experience of the last few years shows us that it's true that in the camp there is some kind of awareness-forming, mind-forming with our children in the wrong direction, but rather, the reason that one really rejects all of it is the immeasurable theft and theft of public money that surrounds this whole program, which makes one say, even if one could agree with the purpose, that children should go to camp and experience all the things that we may have had, but it's certain that one cannot support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-19-219	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Attila Philip, State Secretary, who is trying to sum up the debate, obviously we will succeed.
u2020-05-19-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think that in the context of the law, so much has been said that we should stick to a fact matter, what this very short law is about, and I would like to repeat it in the closing words, and that it should be recorded. This law is about defining the concepts of camping, camping escorts, camp organizers and campgrounds in connection with the Erzsébet camp. On the other hand, it defines the concept and types of Erzsébet camps, i.e. the main characteristics of the day-care, sleep-sleeping and family Erzsébet camps. Thirdly, it states that the State supports the camping of children in the framework of the Erzsébet camps. Fourthly, it provides for the annual provision of public budget support, and fifthly it describes and records the data that the Foundation can manage. That's what the law is about, so I can answer the questions that have been raised on these issues. In my expo, I said this at the beginning, and I think it is particularly important, and this is also not a new story, but it has a history. This was a built-up story since 2012, in which there was a forced restructuring in 2016. I also said in the Expoze that the holiday of adults and families is not the task of the Erzsébet Camp, but of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation. Quite a lot of people have said that otherwise this has been empty and has ceased, which is, of course, not true. In September 2019 an invitation for social holidays was issued to be cashed in 2020. By the way, this is the case for large family members, nearly 3,000 applications were awarded, nearly 1,400 for children with disabilities, 2,900 for adults with disabilities, and 6,600 for pensioners. So it is not true that it has ceased, only in the expoze I have recorded that the task of the Erzsébet Camp is different, and it is another task of the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation, which, by the way, carries this part, which was previously laid down in a law. So that's how these two stand up. 130,000 children are the last children to be on holiday in 2019, and these 130,000 children are precisely the reason for the renovation to be completed here. In answer to the question, both Zánkán and Fonyód will be renovated at different stages, and this will be in such a state by next summer that it will be ready and can be camped in these places next summer. In answer to the question that has been raised twice in connection with the law, why is the law naming it as companies, because it has its camping place in Transylvania, apart from Zánkán and Fonyód, and Transylvania is the Transylvanian company that operates it, so I can give you a technical answer. I can also say to Mr Csányi that any practical or pragmatic questions that arise in connection with the organisation of the camp itself, I am quite certain that the foundation... I do not want to get involved in this now, because I think there is a daily cleaning, and I think the kitchen will certainly have one of the best kitchens in Europe by next summer, which is why the investment and renovation is taking place. [[23.00]] But any questions, any complaints, I'm sure the foundation will answer these questions. And let me only answer in one sentence that these properties are for children's camps today and in the future, the foundation is exactly the guarantee. Thank you very much for listening, and I will ask for the support of the law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-221	Thank you very much, Attila Philip, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. Act IV of 2020 on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/10528. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Hajas Barnabas, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-19-222	Mr President, Dear Parliament, As is well-known to you, the National Assembly is the year 2020 on immediate measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation. By adopting a law, it strongly expressed its condemnation of the abuse of lawsuits against prisoners in prison matters, which seriously violate the sense of justice of society. With the adoption of this Act, Parliament took the first step towards eliminating unfair practices in the payment of indemnities for prison conditions. The government continues to regard as one of its most important tasks the guarantee of victims, victims and relatives' rights against the profiteering of criminals. Accordingly, we continue to make every effort to ensure that victims, victims and their relatives can enforce their legitimate needs and do not have to watch the criminals who abuse them pocket millions. In order to be able to fulfil this important task of the Government, the National Assembly announced its 2014 Annual Report on 6 March 2020. By adopting a law, until 15 May 2020, a deadline was set for the development of a new regulation to prevent abuses and to provide adequate opportunities for the enforcement of victims' claims and to suspend payment in prison congestion compensation proceedings until 15 June 2020. Dear House, An unexpected global event has unfortunately prevented the development of new regulation for a while. It is well known to all of us that on 11 March 2020 the government had to declare a country-wide emergency in view of the Covid-19 epidemic threatening life and property security. We owe thanks to health workers, policemen and the entire Hungarian society working in the first lines of defense for exemplary cooperation, discipline and endurance in this difficult situation. However, due to the emergency announced in the context of Covid-19 and the related national protection, it was not possible to carry out the 4th edition of 2020 on account of the emergency situation announced in the context of Covid-19. within the deadline laid down by law, to restore the natural balance between compensation schemes for victims of crime and prisoners and to establish a new system of compensation for prison congestion. At the same time, the government remains determined to develop a new regulation to remove the possibility of abuse of the detention compensation scheme and to enforce the legitimate claims of victims and their relatives in a faster and more efficient way than currently. The bill therefore allows the establishment of a new regulation in order to develop a new legislation on detention compensation and, in the light of the emergency situation, until 31 October 2020 and extends the suspension of payments until 31 December 2020. Dear House, In order to restore trust in the judiciary, our aim remains to ensure that the compensation awarded is paid to prisoners, directly or indirectly, on a personal basis, and that taxpayers' money does not migrate to lawyers associated with organisations financed from abroad who represent the prisoners in these matters. It is only possible to establish this regulation in a well-established and professional manner after an emergency which requires an extension of the periods previously set. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-19-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Barnabás Hajas Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-19-224	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In February this year, the House discussed a draft law to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. The general sense of justice of Hungarian citizens and society has been greatly violated by the ten billion-dollar industry, which has developed in recent years, called prison business. Lawyers linked to the Soros network filed nearly 12,000 indemnification lawsuits against the Hungarian State, which forced the State to pay approximately HUF 9 billion in compensation to perpetrators of extremely serious crimes and to criminals sentenced to final imprisonment. Let us recall what these convicts and their lawyers were referring to the courts for. Their legal basis was that detention conditions in our country are not worthy of man, because, for example, the sun is not shining enough in the window of the cell. In fact, I would like to note that the statistics show that prison conditions in Hungary have improved a lot and that in recent years there has been more room and that new prisons are constantly being built. It was simply unacceptable for the Hungarian people to receive 5-6 million forints, the Battonya monster received 2 million forints, and the members of the Burka family received 45 million forints thanks to their successful compensation lawsuit. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that lawyers such as György Magyar, who had previously challenged himself in the elections in Balliberal colours, or almost 70 percent of the amounts paid as compensation landed in the pockets of lawyers appearing as partners of the Helsinki Committee and TASZ. Lawyers linked to Soros organisations simply settled on prisoners and prisoners, and even in prisons they provided a sample of earnings, which were filled out by the convicts directly before the court. The prison business industry clearly realizes the abuse of law, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates people's sense of justice. Therefore, quite rightly, the government, listening to the opinion of the people, decided to put an end to it and restore the sense of justice of society. Dear House, Not so long ago, the Parliament adopted the proposal, which set the goal of seeking to restore the balance between compensation systems for victims of crime and for prisoners. This law was very forward-looking to call on the government to establish a new regulatory system to mitigate the harm resulting from the crime and to enforce the interests of the victims of the crime. All of this has happened. The adopted law is an excellent tool to reduce the number of abuses of compensation lawsuits that seriously harm the sense of justice in society, and to ensure better protection of the rights and interests of victims, while also making effective proposals to remedy the prison congestion problem. [[23.10]] Unfortunately, in the deadline for restoring the natural balance between these compensatory systems, as Mr Secretary of State has said, there was no possibility to establish a new system of compensation for prison congestion due to the emergency declared in connection with the coronal virus epidemic and the associated national protection, and it was therefore justified to change the deadline previously laid down. The deadline for suspension of payments would have initially been 15 June 2020, but in view of the situation, the deadline was extended until 31 December 2020. The proposal submitted will be extended in the light of the emergency situation to 31 October 2020 instead of 15 May 2020 in order to allow the fullest possible enforcement of criminal cases, the victims and the legitimate claims of the convicted offences involved in the indemnification proceedings and their relatives, as set out in the Act on immediate measures to eliminate abuse of prison congestion compensation. Dear Parliament, We have been through trying months that have put enormous burdens not only on decision makers but also on ordinary people. The spread of the epidemic has been significantly reduced thanks to extensive cooperation and efforts, patience and the sacrifice of front line workers. The Hungarian people showed us: if there is a common cause, they can cooperate. In my view, the restoration of the sense of justice of society is equally common, since it is in the interest of the vast majority of citizens to have a general moral perception heard. I hope that, on the basis of what has been said, the opposition side will also support the draft legislation that we are discussing. The tabled proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-225	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Budai. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-05-19-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, At this late hour, we are discussing a bill that was in a slightly different form, but not so long ago. We also said our concerns, and I think we can say with a calm heart that it is only the Jobbik Movement for Hungary that represents a consistent position on this issue, both today and in the previous debate and in the 2015 and 2016 years, when we discussed this preliminary question. We have also heard great things in the presentation of the Secretary of State and in the interpretation of Gyula Budai. We have heard that the restoration of the natural balance between compensation systems, we have heard that the violation of the general sense of justice of society, we have heard the obligation to pay for the organisations linked to the Soros network, the abuse of law, the obligation to restore the sense of justice of society. One thing I didn't hear was consistency. Because they don't talk about it, neither of them, nor will KDNP's next lead speaker or keynote speaker, who has caused this situation, who has broken the natural balance, who has upset the sense of justice in society. Well, it's obvious: who was in government in 2015-16, Fidesz and KDNP. Who introduced this legislation to pay such compensation to prisoners in prison? This, ladies and gentlemen, was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP, the governing party. This was presented by the government, signed by the Minister of Justice at the time, who said that the prisoners must pay between HUF 1200 and HUF 1600 per day for inadequate detention. And there was only one party here in Parliament who said no to this: that was the Movement for Jobbik Hungary. We were the ones who said that it was not the prisoners that should be compensated, but that the compensation for the victims should be dealt with here in the first place, that it should be for them to draw up appropriate legislation, and that this question would be much more important than for the prisoners to receive the compensation that you have accepted in the law. And we didn't vote for it. So we can say that the cause of the imbalance is the Fidesz-KDNP, and that in order to restore the sense of justice in society, it is most important for you to do so, because it was your fault. And I would also like to quote something else from Gyula Budai, which I have already referred to: I had to pay this nearly HUF 9 billion because of the organizations connected to the Soros network. I'll ask you, who do you think belongs to the Soros network? The Fidesz-KDNP? [[Dr. Gyula Budai: György Magyar!]] My fellow Member, you and the Fidesz-KDNP? Well, who brought this legislation? ! Who made it possible? ! Well, if you made it possible, you are the Soros network, according to you, my fellow Member, Gyula Budai. You believe that Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian government belong to the Soros network, because you made it possible for this to happen in Hungary. Indeed, your activities, your legislation, have made it possible for people in Hungary to be outraged by the fact that the sentenced persons you named took 5 and 6 million HUF and even more. You created this opportunity. And my fellow Member Gábor Staudt did say here in 2016 that this was going to happen, and he also said that you were creating an opportunity for law firms to start a commercial prison business, but you were not interested. You have allowed this system to develop in Hungary. Yes, I'm telling you, the responsibility for these lies solely with you today. In 2015, you made a promise to the European Union, a promise that you would solve the problem of prison congestion in Hungary. They said that prison congestion would cease, and you put a plan of action on the table of the European Union, and they did say that in a few years they would reduce prison congestion to 100 percent of the 100 percent that was then, and that new prisons will be built in Hungary, and that they will solve it here. The planning started, it was announced, the Minister of the Interior, the government, everyone was concerned about which cities he was going to be in, yes, we talked to mayors here, we looked at the land and the rest, and everything else happened. The only thing that didn't happen was that these penitentiaries were built, and nothing happened. And I did read studies on how much it would have cost to build a penitentiary in 2016 and 2017: HUF 4-5 billion. They could have built two of the money you paid off the Hungarian taxpayers' money to the convicts, the law firms and everyone, instead of solving the problem. And yes, my fellow Member, Buda, you were the one who was outraged by the fact that if you didn't have the right day in the cell, if you didn't have the right temperature, you would have to pay compensation. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Me?]] Yeah. Didn't you just say that? [[Dr. Gyula Budai: I wasn't even in the debate at the time! Are you insane?]] And that's in the law! Who made this legislation, my fellow Member? Who made this legislation about when to pay? Either Mr. Secretary said it, or you said it. Yes, you created the legislation under which this was to be paid, and this payment obligation is in place. So we can make it clear that the responsibility lies with you. You can smile on that, by the way, you can smile very well, but you know very well who is responsible for this. You obviously want to make political capital out of this again when you stand up, and then the media will shout a thousand in the whole country that it is Fidesz-KDNP alone who wants to prevent the prison business of serialist organizations in Hungary. You will say this, and you will not say a word about who created this opportunity in Hungary. You stand up and say yes, we did, because Fidesz-KDNP was the one who created it. [[23.20]] It is clear that T/12179 was submitted in 2016 Bill No.1, which included them, which allowed prison business. And as I said, Dr. László Trócsányi was the Minister of Justice. And when did this have to be paid by law? If there is no properly separated toilet, inadequate ventilation, inadequate lighting, inadequate heating, or if there are insects in the cell. In this case, you have established the compensation and that the inmates will receive between HUF 1200 and HUF 1600 a day. Let's not even talk about the fact that you found that you couldn't deduct it from it the way you could, by the way, deduct it from a normal wage or anything, because you've also benefited from the convicts here. In fact, a rule was introduced into this law at the time that everything had to be played within a 60-day deadline. And we know very well that the indemnification lawsuits in court are going to last for years or even a few years, but no, the prisoners are privileged, they're entitled to compensation within 60 days. [[Gergely Harvesto: If you judge the court.]] If you judge the court, that's right, thank you very much. But obviously, they created a system with which there was no other option, and that's why the business itself, the prison business, was formed. And Jobbik alone didn't support this system, because we didn't want millions and billions of taxpayers' money to migrate out to the convicts and the law offices representing them. This is what you wanted, and you, the Fidesz-KDNP, wanted this to happen. And what did they do? One hundred percent utilisation has not been achieved today either, as we are now at 114 percent, and even at this level, the state's payment obligation is set in Hungary. There's 2,500-3000 seats, which means there's no way there's gonna be that much more. As I said, out of the 8.5 billion forints that were paid out of taxpayers' money for compensation, you could have solved it, but you paid for the law firms instead, you paid for the convicts. How did this business work out? In 2013, only HUF 37 million was paid, but when they realized in 2015 what business it would be, it paid HUF 670 million from 2016, HUF 670 million in 2017, HUF 3.5 billion from 2018 and HUF 8.5 billion from today. In 2017, there were only nearly 700 cases and in 2018 there were 3745 cases. It also shows that if we look at the nearly 18,000 inmates, most of them have been constantly trying to sue. And during all this, the government has done nothing to expand the number of seats. When we discussed the amendment this year, Jobbik supported it. But we have told you your mistakes, here I have told you that you will postpone the problem-solving and you will not solve any solution, you will not solve overcrowding; and you will not apologize to the people for violating the sense of justice of society, for putting the victims first, but also the prisoners. And that should have been included in this bill, in the preamble, the governing parties could have apologized freely. The current proposal reschedules the problem because they do not see any solution now. Just like they didn't see me last time. He's adjourned in two ways. The previous bill set three deadlines, the earliest of which being 15 May. The new compensation scheme should be developed for you so far. This time, I feel, has passed, four days from today, and nothing has happened. Of course, it is easy to blame the Covid virus for not being able to develop the new compensation system so far, but they haven't been able to work out anything since 2015, and I don't think they will be able to do so until the new deadline, which is 31 October of this year. The second date is 15 June 2020 until the indemnification can be paid to the inmates. You will extend this until 31 December 2020. We want no compensation to be paid to the prisoners at all. We are on the side of the victims, and we believe that we should act primarily in their direction towards the state with such a need. And I ask you, what about the third date, September 30, 2020, the date of the termination of the prison crowd, which you promised to bring down the prison crowd to 100 percent in Hungary. In this legislation they do not touch this, so according to you, and according to this draft, prison congestion will be terminated by the government by 30 September 2020. Then I'll ask the Secretary of State how. I ask the lead speaker of Fidesz, my colleague Gyula Budai, how he will be eliminated. That means 3,000 inmates, 3,000 inmates, either convicted of criminal charges, or otherwise held or detained, what about them? What about these 3,000 people? Are you going to build two detention centers, one that will take 1200-1500 people, until 30 September, the month of June, July and August? That's one way to do it. The other solution is that you have come up with the idea that amnesty will be announced in Hungary and that 3000 people will be released. Well, I can say that Jobbik Hungary cannot support this in any way, so that you can unleash 3,000 people on society today because of their own mistake. Answer me, fellow Members, how do you think they will resolve overcrowding by 30 September? It's possible to smile on this, what we assume, there's simply no other option, these two, or amnesty, we can't support it, or they'll build the prisons until September 30th. Give me an answer. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-227	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-05-19-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have held debates here once, so during the period before the corona virus epidemic, we have worked to put an end to the prison business that deeply violates the sense of justice in society, so before the outbreak of the corona virus in Europe, the National Assembly is the 4th century of 2020. By adopting a law, it decided to suspend the payment of compensation by 15 June 2020 in order to establish a new fair compensation scheme. However, there was no possibility to establish a new system of compensation for prison congestion in the context of the control of the coronal virus epidemic, and it is therefore absolutely justified to modify the time limits. According to this bill, the new deadline for suspending payments is 31 December 2020. What we see is that prison business is a nearly HUF 10 billion industry that seriously violates society's sense of justice. In prison business, convicted criminals and lawyers helped them get rich, with only a small percentage, only 10 percent, of the amounts paid, to compensate the victims and the victims' families. In prison business, however, lawyers linked to the Balliberal side and the Soros organisations benefited, with 70 percent of the money paid. It is estimated that György Magyar made half a billion forints, who started in the colours of the Dialogue and in the colours of the MSZP in the 2018 parliamentary elections, and is now the confidant of Mayor Gergely Christmas. Who made one of the biggest of them, György Magyar. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, that in 2016, when the law mentioned by you was adopted and you know it, you are only trying to distort the facts and reality, it was the legislator's original intention to create an effective and well-functioning compensation system to compensate for the situation at that time. This was then the original legislative intention, which was the result of the actions in Strasbourg, which then entered into force on 1 January 2017. [[23.30]] It is just that, honourable Member, what you also know very well is that the lawyers on the Balliberal side have found a loophole, they have found the possibility of misuse of law, and they have therefore built a billion-dollar industry on it. Go to your new allies and ask them how this happened and why. Now that you have removed the double cross from your logo, you may be more welcome to ask the balliberal side and the Soros organisations how a qualified abuse of rights has occurred on this issue. And how it was, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, one of the Soros flagships, has revealed itself in the last few weeks, because the Hungarian Helsinki Committee has lived with a submission to the EU Court, which, in its submission, honourable Member, has been bothered by the Helsinki Committee that the compensation amounts can no longer be transferred directly to the legal deposit accounts, so they fear that few lawyers will take such cases because they will fall from this large money and will not take such cases. This is what the Hungarian Helsinki Committee wrote to the EU court in its submission. Honourable Congressman, What if it's not a self-detection by the Soros organizations? You know exactly what the original legislative intention was, how you abused the law, this situation must now be resolved. We are committed to settling this situation. Obviously, no one was expecting this epidemic, so it is absolutely justified to push the deadlines. I'm asking you not to cover for the balliberal lawyers, the Soros organizations and the parties sitting next to you, who have otherwise assisted in this, because the lawyers out of their circles are rich in it. Jobbik has never once spoken out against the fact that, for example, Balliberal city leaders are giving various contracts to criminal Csaba Czeglédy, referring to the epidemic. You did not speak out against this because it is part of this network. I ask you and everyone else to support this bill. As you were supported last time, and I ask the Balliberal opposition to reconsider their position last time, not on the side of criminals and prisoners and lawyers, but on the side of the Hungarian people, and to support this current bill, so that there is time to settle the situation, we can push the deadlines, and at last choose the sense of justice of the Hungarian people against the convicts. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Hollik.
u2020-05-19-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the proposal before us is a technical change, but I think that these technical changes are important. Two deadlines are changing, two deadlines laid down by law, and the extension of these deadlines is indeed, as my fellow Members have said, essentially due to the coronal virus epidemic, since the protection against the coronal virus epidemic has consumed a great deal of energy. So I can also answer Csaba Gyüre what the government has done since then: for example, he has put up an epidemiological hospital, honourable Member. If, for example, it does not need to be pissed off because there is no epidemic, believe me that this situation would have been resolved long ago and could have fallen to 100 percent of prison congestion, but now it was not necessary to do so, but it was necessary to have an epidemiological hospital, a temporary container hospital, in order to be able to take a good stand against the coronal virus epidemic. I am sorry to see that there are Members who have just been here, Mr Arató, who hate the government and the governing parties so much that they are not even happy that the government acted effectively against the coronal virus epidemic, as Gergely Arató said on today's TV programme that unfortunately Hungary is doing well in terms of the mortality rate. In his view, therefore, Hungary's well and effective defence and low mortality rates are a regrettable fact, according to Mr Gergely Arató. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Only because this could be the credit of the government or the defence authorities. So I ask you, when you criticize this proposal, to have insight! If there is no epidemiological situation, if there is no coronal virus, these deadlines should not have been extended. However, the purpose of the two legislative proposals has not changed at the same time. On the one hand, the government has set out that prison congestion will be eliminated in order to eliminate these abuses once and for all, and, of course, the business that has been built in recent years can be eliminated. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that this business-like prison business was not at all typical up to five years ago; this is what we know from the number of lawsuits. This has come up in the last two or three years. This is also a fact, and it is also a fact who has become rich in it, and we all know that among the prisoners the Soros organizations, the organizations associated with Soros, have told us about the possibility, the way, the technique of how these lawsuits can be launched. Even in the press, he saw all kinds of one - page short writings that prisoners in prison gave each other, exactly how to launch these lawsuits. Since then, we have known that these small pamphlets and information papers have been prepared by the Soros Organizations in order to ensure that prisoners know exactly how to sue. So I say to Congressman Gyüre that we are not the ones who should be apologizing, because these lawsuits were initiated not by the government, not by Fidesz-KDNP, but by the Soros organisations. Those Soros organizations that your allies are working very closely with, by the way. So they should apologize, and by the way, if you're so close to each other, you might want to do that and be more effective in telling your allies, who have a very close relationship with these organizations, this Balliberian world, to tell them to be kind enough to stop this abuse of commercial law. [[Gergely Harvesto: We control Soros? And not Soros us? Who's in charge?]] I said maybe the right person should turn to you... However, I would like to say, Mr Congressman, because you weren't here to think, Mr Arató, that you really are as unfortunate as you said this morning in a television interview that the mortality rate in Hungary is so low. Is it unfortunate? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Because I think it's good, and it shows that those who defended themselves against the epidemic have done a great job by the authorities. You should thank them, Congressman, for this, not just because it doesn't fit into your picture of the world, the world that hates the government. The point is: I think that the extension of these deadlines is justified by the epidemiological situation, which will, of course, be supported by the KDNP. The abuse of the right that has taken place in recent years must be eliminated, and people seem to support it, because their sense of justice is indeed violated, and we clearly support not turning prisons into wellness hotels through such lawsuits. We believe that punishment, as in his name, is involved in punishing the prisoners, and not in providing wellness care. Therefore, the purpose of previous laws, which has now been amended, remains eligible. The extension of the deadline and the shift are justified by the epidemiological situation and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-19-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-05-19-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's a good thing there's a literal record of the meetings. Let me quote you on 2016. CHAPTER IX From the 27th Protocol, what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner, as rapporteur, said to the bill:. Finally, the central element of the amendments aimed at eliminating the situation in breach of the Convention is the introduction of a domestic compensation procedure which ensures effective compensation in proportion to the damage caused by congested accommodation conditions. [[23.40]] The new indemnification procedure will also be incorporated into the Prison Enforcement Act, complementing the scope of prison judicial proceedings. The prison judge may consider the claim for compensation as an independent, impartial body in a simple procedural framework, so that a short period of time is allowed to remedy the injury. Indemnities shall be granted for any day the prisoner has spent in accommodation conditions which infringe fundamental rights. The claim for compensation may be made within a limitation period of six months from the date of termination of the placement in breach of fundamental rights. And I could keep going. Dear Members, please draw up this report and see who put this law in front of Parliament's walls 2016... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Who voted for it? You voted for him.]] What? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: MSZP voted in favour. The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't vote. Look at the minutes, only Fidesz and KDNP politicians voted yes with Jobbik, and the other opposition parties abstained, honourable Member, you voted alone. We did not vote for it, and even in the debate we drew attention to it, Imre Horváth, my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from DK, I do not know who was in there at the time. [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató:]] DK did not vote, our fellow Members from LMP said, and we drew attention to the dangers that my colleague Csaba Gyüre said. Check it out. You caused this situation, and now you're accusing us of creating this situation? You have tabled the law, it was tabled by MEP Pál Völner, Secretary of State, who was responsible for it by the Minister of Justice. You voted in favour, and here you come, that the sense of justice of the Hungarian people? Yes, the sense of justice of the Hungarian people and our sense of justice [[Dr. Gyula Budai: The sense of justice of Magyar György.]] He said he was gonna cause this. Well, you caused it. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then we could say further what you said, my fellow Member, but I do not want to repeat what you referred to, by the way, what agreement should have been kept, what prison-building programme you have announced in the past. They competed with local mayors, promised grass, wood, bushes, and had a fight about which settlement the new prison would be built, and none of it was realized. You know as well as I do, my fellow Member, that the prisons were not built because in 2016 we would have known that this virus was coming. You've been promising these prisons since 15:00. Well, don't be silly. Did you already know in 15 or 16 that the Covid virus was coming, and then you have to put on a container hospital that wasn't used anyway? [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Is that a problem? You should be happy about this.]] And then he's gonna say, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] The reason they couldn't build a prison was because they couldn't make a single investment because this one container hospital was built, which was now said to be going to be a prison hospital. You know it's false and lying. And now they're pointing at everyone else, but they're not taking responsibility for causing this situation, you're responsible for it, and now they're pointing fingers at everyone else, and they think they're gonna take the fall for someone else. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Do you support him?]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Do you support him?]] They're taking the fall for someone else. (Lőrinc Nacsa: Do you support him?) They're taking the fall for someone else. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: György Magyar said that he cannot be supported. The president's ringing the bell.]] You're the one who caused the situation. Resolve it. As we have already asked, not to tell the lie day by day, but to constantly blame the situation on others. Knock it off! And I would specifically ask you not to say again that in 2016, the opposition voted in favour of this amendment. You, fellow Members, have voted for it by Fidesz-KDNP Members. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-19-233	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-05-19-234	Thank you very much. Let us begin with the crown virus, and if Congressman Hollik has been kind enough to address me at this late hour, then let us get this straight. Honourable Congressman, Take three minutes, look at the whole interview or conversation, you will see that there I am talking about the regrettable fact that the data proves that the number of deaths in Hungary is high compared to the Visegrád countries. This is unfortunate, and we all regret it, and of course it is not up to health workers, and there should be no misunderstanding, because this is also misinterpreted. This is not up to health workers, it's up to health management and health care. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is leaving the Chamber. Dr. Gyula Budai: Don't go, I can't answer.]] But it's a long story, and I wouldn't bring it to you. I wanted to mention one thing because the Secretary of State thanked those involved in defence, including law enforcement workers, and I would like to highlight one more issue, namely those working in prison. It's very important that they were able to prevent the coronal virus from entering the prisons according to current information. We have seen that there have been very serious problems in other countries, not only from the point of view of those in prison, but also of the population as a whole. They are one of those who, during this period, are carrying out dangerous and victim - willing work in the fight against the virus. We owe them our thanks, too. As far as this bill is concerned, unfortunately, we do not have to thank you for this, because the fact is that this current bill exposes the fact that it is a political product. Mr Secretary, the government is not trying to solve a practical problem here. My favourite part is that the reasons for the proposal include the fact that, as a result of the national consultation, the government has concluded that it is necessary to take action here. This is the national consultation that has been cancelled because of the coronal virus, so we do not know what the result is. Although we can guess, since national consultations are very reliable in making the results you expect them to have. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the type of situation that has arisen and which neither of us is happy about, because I think that neither of us is pleased that damages are due to bad prison conditions to the Hungarian State. It's no pleasure for anyone, but it's because you created this situation. Who gets compensation? Compensation is granted to those who are held under conditions which do not comply with the Hungarian legislation in force, in particular a decree of the Ministry of Justice. That's why compensation is due under the current rules. It is on the basis of a law that you made in 2016, and in 2016, my fellow Members have already spoken about this, and you have also decided how to resolve this situation, in addition to a criminal policy that you are following, and which is that if relatively many people go to prison and go to prison for a long time, there is a need to build prison spaces. If you need a lot of prisoners, you need more space. But these seats weren't built. They were talking about seven or nine prisons, one of which was handed over if I followed him well, and some of the places were designed to expand. The thing is, the reason this is happening today is because you are unable to comply with your own rules because you have not built the prison space. They often refer to indemnification as compensation for victims. The fact is, and it is sad again that this is the case, but today these are the most recent amounts of compensation for victims, because there is no effective system of compensation for victims. If they were to propose this, for example, to advance the damage to victims of crime, they would certainly receive great support from the opposition side, but that is not the case. This is where the case of the perpetrators of the murder in Olaszliska was mentioned, for example, the vast majority of that compensation was transferred to the victim's family, and this was the source from which they could otherwise be compensated. But that's not the way it is, we agree. The order of the matter would be that they would otherwise receive compensation from state resources and, if so, of course, if there is, from the property of the perpetrators. But then solve the real problem. At the same time, the legal solution that is being followed now is not acceptable, because the amount set out in a judgment given after a valid court ruling cannot be paid, which is a type of solution that undermines the basis of the rule of law. Because I understand, and of course, your sense of justice is a violation of these solutions for many of us, but in a rule of law, what is judged by the court must be carried out. And it protects anyone who seeks your justice in court, no matter what the case. If the State decides that it will not pay the compensation which has otherwise been awarded by the court, because it does not like the person who won this case, there are very serious consequences. And likewise, there are serious consequences when a lawyer is attacked in person for taking on a case. [[23.50]] It is not because a lawyer takes a case. The lawyer's job is to represent his own client. If you need a lawyer, your lawyer will be required to represent you, whatever case you're dealing with. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Wrong!]] But the court judges on the basis of the law. If the legislation is wrong, it is the person responsible for the legislation, and this was the majority of you in Parliament. Finally, why do I say that this law is a political product? My dear fellow Members, if I count correctly, today we have decided on 21 pieces of legislation, perhaps only 18, the press are not sure about much. They had energy to prepare them. There was energy to rewrite the civil status law, energy and capacity to further limit the rights of cities, energy and capacity for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, capacity to transform the university system, and capacity to transform the higher education system. This government had a capacity for everything, well, somehow it didn't have a capacity for it. I'm sorry if I'm suggesting that this is because you don't want to solve this problem, but you're going to want to start a propaganda campaign again in a few months after the outbreak. I propose to you, and I would also ask you not to look for the political issue here. I understand how you can line up, it's mandatory practice, if you don't line up enough, you write in your checkbook, and then you get the target premium. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: György Magyar!]] That's all right, and you can say György Magyar, and obviously you can still choose people you don't like, but that's not what legislation and especially government work should be about. Solve the problem, create the prisons, but don't do it the way they're doing it now, I'll add, but I don't want to go into that any more, where they started building it at completely inappropriate locations and other places besides kindergartens and container jails. That's why the container prison is gonna be so exciting, how safe a prison like this is gonna work. There's gonna be a lot of problems for the state. But anyway, build a prison, make decent, but better laws, bring me the legal solution they promise, have energy for this, and then every Member in Parliament will decide to support this legal solution. But in this way, this regulation is only good for creating another political scandal. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-235	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. [[Interjection: He's not here!]] Congressman Bence of Turdai is here to see you. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He left with a bag.]] Then I will not give the floor to Congressman Bence of Torda. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. In two minutes, Congressman Csaba Gyure asked for the floor, Jobbik.
u2020-05-19-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to what I've just said with a few sentences. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa mentioned that the legislative intention was to develop a compensation system. I could even say that I do not dispute that this could have been the original legislative intention, but this was still a mistake. We said that in 2016, when this law was debated, we said that. Then my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, referred to the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, that he lamented, that the lamentation was a self-revealing, that he lamented about the withdrawal of payments, that the money would not go to the legal deposit accounts, and that it was practically a self-revealing by the Helsinki Committee. It's not my place at all, and I don't want to protect the Helsinki Commission in any way, except the truth. And the truth is that when I prepared my previous speech, I found a document by the Helsinki Committee, which was written at the end of 2014. In doing so, the government has been drawn to the attention of the government that, if such legislation is to be drawn up, this will result in the development of a business and will be specialised in law firms that will benefit from prison business in a commercial way. This was described by the Helsinki Committee at the end of 2014. I understand that you don't want to listen to the Helsinki Committee, and you didn't want to listen in 2016 when this law was passed, but at least you would have listened to Jobbik, which said that this would create a business. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gyula Budai's statement follows.
u2020-05-19-238	Thank you very much. Mr President, Then I would like to ask my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre and fellow Member Arató a very simple rhetorical question. I'm sure Congressman Csaba Gyüre, from his law practice, remembers what mandatory legal representation means. I don't suppose that about Gergely Harvesto, because he didn't practice as a lawyer, but maybe he did. So I am interested, Congressman, that you know what mandatory legal representation means. It's a question to you. So if you know what it means, then what you've said here was a horrific misrepresentation, because in these damages lawsuits, look at the law, there's no legal representation. Do you know what this means, Congressman? That prisoners and prisoners could have turned or turned to the court without a lawyer's involvement, if they had offended the circumstances of detention. But no! The clever Helsinki Committee, to which you refer, made an application, delivered it to the prison, the prisoners handed it to each other hand to hand, and then came the specialised law firms, György Magyar and his son, the legal representatives associated with the TASZ, and settled regularly on the prisoners and prisoners who could have gone to the court without them. So this isn't an industry, Congressman? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's what I'm talking about!]] Isn't this a business-like industry? But even you and Congressman Arató didn't tell me that this Hungarian György, who made half a billion, was not a nice thing to do. Or there is a list of lawyers associated with the SAO or the Helsinki Commission or associated with the Soros network. To this day, I have not heard one statement from you that this was indeed a business, it was an industry; it was still an industry, Mr. Congressman. So, as a practicing lawyer, I don't want to lecture you right now, but let's make a distinction between mandatory legal representation and non-existent legal representation because in this case, there was no legal representation for prisoners and prisoners. And of course, it created this industry. I do not want to continue the debate that we had in February on which of the two evils was better: that we pay the European Court of Justice's decision five times as much as the current 10 billion, or that we stand in these lawsuits, Member. So I think it's a pretty shady idea of what you've been telling me here for a lawyer. So I'm just arguing on a professional level, no politics, not a political product, and I'm making professional arguments. Congressman Arató asked me to say this on the basis of professional arguments, and on the basis of professional arguments, a lawyer representing himself as a lawyer or a politician, György Magyar, comes and makes half a billion in this prison business. Yes, indeed, there have been reports, so to speak, which say that the law firms have asked for a success fee of 30-50 percent of the compensation. Isn't this business? Counselor, colleague, I was a 22-year-old practicing lawyer. I don't know how long you've been here. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Only 20.]] We know very well what success prizes lawyers work with. The 30-50 percent... Congressman, someone should stand up and say that, well, this Hungarian György, supported by the Dialogue-MSZP, did a very bad thing, and the others too, but they won't say it anyway. While you voted in February for the bill we tabled, opposition representatives from your right or left voted 'no' and will vote 'no' now. While you know what this bill is about? We are discussing a technical amendment, dates, as you have read very well in the bill, that the date of 30 September, in which the government has undertaken to resolve these prison-crowding conditions, remains there. [[0.00]] The suspension of payments has been extended until December, and the compensation for the victims has been extended until 31 October. Well, that's what we're talking about here. And you're accusing us of a political product? Do you know what a political product is? The political product is that lawyers acting like politicians settle on this whole thing and make billions, half a billion. And from the opposition side, not one person has stood up, not from DK, not from the Dialogue, not from the Socialists, and has not said that it is indeed a very ugly thing that György Magyar is doing. It's either very ugly what the Helsinki Commission's legal representatives or TASZ lawyers did in this case. Of course they won't, because they're gonna hurt their own dog's kid? ! Ladies and gentlemen, at this late midnight hour, you wanted this kind of debate. We have tabled a technical amendment, we have stated our arguments that because of the crisis caused by the coronal virus, these laws could not be properly drawn up, and then Mr Arató comes up with what we have worked out. Well, Congressman, I'm a member of the TAB, and I'm sitting there with you, and I know what laws we've drawn up. This legislation has just been brought here, and it is precisely because these deadlines could not be kept because of the crisis caused by the coronal virus. But let's be honest and professional. I'm not making political arguments. I'm making professional arguments. Congressman Gyure mentioned amnesty. We discussed this already in February. That's one of those stupidities you're saying, and I'm sorry that we're either building prisons or amnesty and liberating thousands of criminals into society. Are you serious about this? Are you serious as a lawyer? No. Is it in the law to declare amnesty, Congressman? Are you in? Mr. Congressman, once again, the time limit for the elimination of prison congestion has not changed. We're gonna figure it out, but not in the way you're lying here in Parliament, and the way Agnes of DK was yelling at us in February to free criminals from society, murderers and robbers. You gotta be kidding me, Congressman. Somewhere in your profession, it's a lack of knowledge, a misrepresentation, or I don't know what it is. I don't mean to be personal with you, but I've been in this business 22 years. I've done 22 years, Congressman, as a criminal attorney, and I know what this business is about. And then you owe me amnesty? Do you know the last time there was an amnesty in Hungary? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I know.]] Well, then. I think we should take this parliamentary genre more seriously. Congressman, the amnesty you're talking about and the release of criminals, that's the political product. It is a hard-core political product, and it is a misdirection of people in relation to this bill. I would be very happy to debate, I would very much like to have a professional debate with anyone on this issue, but then I would ask that professional arguments clash. The reason I don't tell my fellow Member, Mr Arató, is because he's not a lawyer, he can't operate with professional arguments, he tells me what he's written and then, as it rains, puffs. But, Congressman Gyure, we know each other from the trade. If we're gonna argue, let's make some real arguments. Will someone please rise up from the opposition and tell me that this Magyar György is our dog's kid, but he did something very nasty. And the other left-wing liberal lawyers. Congressman, this draft law is about how these lawyers have taken advantage of the underprivileged situation of inmates and inmates who are not really entitled to representation by lawyers. They're settled on this. Congressman, you know that very well. In the February debate, I read several letters that I received about how prisoners in detention institutions give each other the names, addresses and contact details of lawyers. Then let's be honest. You know how it is. Congressman, did you go to law school? Although you didn't punish me. You know, when your client comes and says my cellmate needs a lawyer. Congressman, anyone who knows the trade knows what it's about. Anyone who doesn't know him comes to Parliament and says these phrases, which I don't think makes any sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It's after midnight, and I'm giving the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre on World Bee Day for a normal speech.
u2020-05-19-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I am very glad that I got the floor right after Gyula Budai's treatise. Well, I don't know what to say, he asked someone to stand up and say that this thing was really ugly. I'm gonna get up now and say that this thing, this prison business, it was really bad. If that's what you asked for, that's what it was. But who created that possibility? Fidesz-KDNP has created the possibility that this business-like industry will be realised in Hungary, that the lawyers of prisoners and prisoners together will jointly withdraw nearly HUF 9 billion from taxpayers' money. My dear colleague Gyula Budai, I was a little shocked by your previous speech. On the one hand, I resent you calling me a liar, and I refuse. I didn't say you were going to give me amnesty. I asked you. I see two ways. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Come on!]] I will not explain myself to you in this regard. Well, there are two options until September 30, or amnesty, or they're gonna build the prison. If you haven't been able to build a prison since 2015, I don't see another way. It's just a conclusion. And then he said that the convicts weren't entitled to legal representation. I am absolutely shocked by your statement. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: I didn't say that!]] My fellow Member, read the minutes. He said that he was shocked at the fact that those who were not entitled to legal representation were established by a business-like industry. Of course they're not entitled. In Hungary, according to the Fundamental Law and all laws, every citizen, every legal person, has the right to a lawyer's representation, so the prisoners also have the right to do so. This has been made possible by your legislation. I'm shocked. You speak of professional incompetence, but if you make such statements, my fellow Member, I do not know how you can refer to anyone else. Then I don't understand your reasoning at all. He says we should make a statement that there's a mandatory legal representation. Well, if it isn't, then on what basis did the law firms install on it? This is not a mandatory representation of a lawyer, but that every citizen in Hungary has the right to contact a lawyer when he needs it. It's not an obligation, it's an opportunity. Well, don't tell anyone that if he's allowed to hire a lawyer, then why would he hire a lawyer? Why can't he do that? You were a lawyer for 22 years, so you know that. You didn't just act in cases where you represented me when you were required to represent a lawyer. He was probably also involved in cases where he wasn't required, but he was only asked to do so, and they gave you an assignment, regardless of the fact that it wasn't mandatory. Besides, we're not talking about compensation if we're going to be very legal and precise, we're talking about compensation, and let's not confuse these concepts. Although you weren't a civil case, you were primarily a criminal case. So there's something else going on here, too. We could cross-examine each other's words and each other's statements here. What you need to see is that you had the right to use it under the law, and unfortunately, this opportunity is linked to your name, which you created. And I did want to make reference to the fact that my fellow Member Gábor Staudt said in 2016 that if your bill is implemented, then an industry will be built to obtain such money for criminals and prisoners in Hungary. [[0.10]] Gábor Staudt told me that already in 2016. What I don't understand is if everyone but you saw that this would raise such social problems, why you didn't see it. I'll ask you where you have the government's responsibility. Where? If you make decisions that you realize in four years' time and five years' time that this is a serious violation of society's sense of justice, this is not good. You didn't think that this would be an industry? Everyone but you thought about this, that an industry would be on it, but you didn't think about it? That you wanted to make a compensation. Do you live in the world of idealism? I'm asking you. Now they're trying to put responsibility on the opposition, the opposition who didn't vote for your bill. I think the responsibility is clear, and we can look at it politically and look at it professionally. Professionally, it was a mistake in your law of 2016 and politically it was. And now you want to come out of this politically, with the media steamroller behind your back, which will tell you that the opposition parties do not want the prison business to go away, the serialist organizations are all supported by the opposition parties, because they are all Balliberians, and the rest, and the rest, that's what you will say. The only thing that goes wrong is truth and responsibility, and I think that might be the most important thing. Get inside and think about it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-241	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc for two minutes.
u2020-05-19-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened to Congressman Arato's ATV sentences, although late at night a good Harvester could ruin the night. But, Congressman, you said when you spoke of the people who died in the corona virus, that, I quote, this is not a bad number for the country, unfortunately. Maybe that's not what he was trying to say. Then stand up, apologize, tell them you're wrong, that happens to anyone in the TV studio or in front of journalists. But that's what you literally said. He asked us to listen. That's what he said. The Helsinki Committee, which Csaba Gyüre has been so vehemently protected as the Soros Organisation, I would like to say, honourable Member, that in their submission to the European Court of Justice today, the Helsinki Committee has urged the Hungarian Government to ease the strict criminal policy. So if anyone wants amnesty, the Helsinki Commission, protected by you, wants amnesty. Of course, you suspected this, and you know very well that you suspected for political purposes that there would be no amnesty, because the Fidesz-KDNP government has implemented the strictest criminal policy of the last thirty years. While under Ferenc Gyurcsány there were 420-440 thousand registered crimes a year, we reduced the number of registered crimes to 199 thousand, so we reduced the number of registered crimes to less than 200,000 in the last year. So if, somewhere, prevention and strict criminal policy have an impact, then here, under the Fidesz-KDNP government. So obviously, don't accuse us of that. Congressman! As a lawyer, please respond to the fact that you believe that you can handle four hundred cases in parallel with full legal expertise and professionalism. Because there were lawyers running four hundred cases in parallel. That's why we talked about industry, that's why we talked about prison business. Can you provide full professionalism and rightfully a lawyer with four hundred parallel cases? No, I didn't. They were handing out earnings on photocopied pages and pulling down the Hungarian state on conveyor belts. This is what we call the industry, and this is what we call an unscrupulous abuse of the right. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-19-243	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes.
u2020-05-19-244	I confirm that I should start from the beginning, as I said before, that I would recommend that the interview as a whole be viewed, no matter how stressful it may be for you, because it makes my position quite clear. The thing is, this was an unfortunate slip of the tongue, which was not my intention, and I would like to make that perfectly clear. If I've hurt anyone, you or anyone else, I'd be happy to apologize for that. I'd be happy if the numbers were right or the numbers weren't wrong. Unfortunately, the numbers I was talking about there aren't good either. But that is not the most important issue, of course, but the bill. With regard to the bill, it is a far-reaching debate, and perhaps now would not be a good time to discuss strict criminal policy or to discuss whether the improvement you mention is more statistical or rather real. It is worth asking citizens about this, and we would certainly hear many kinds of opinions about it. However, one thing is absolutely clear, and we agree on this, and the statistics show this and the intention was this: the number of prisoners increased rapidly in the period after 2010. If that were the case, this should have been prepared with the establishment of suitable places for suitable prison facilities. Not only because there are some minimums that, I repeat, are laid down by your legislation, but undoubtedly in accordance with international conventions, on the basis of them, but also because, by the way, these conditions pose security and other risks to the staff of the prisons, and also because, in good times, prisons also have some kind of reintegration goal, which does not happen if the circumstances are like most of the Hungarian prisons. If this is criminal policy, then prisons must be created.
u2020-05-19-245	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2020-05-19-246	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lőrinc Nacsa asked us what our opinion was, a lawyer could handle 400 cases in parallel. Obviously not. Obviously not. That is why we have constantly spoken against the prison business, which is why we said in 2016 that an industry will be developing, and that is why we have called attention to the fact that this will be a deep violation of the sense of justice of society, and that is why such legislation should not be put in place. So I return to the fact that you are responsible for making this industry possible in Hungary, even though everyone who thought responsibly saw that this industry was going to find its way into this. And how can you handle these cases? These were template cases, the same application had to be filed almost literally: the conditions were bad, there was no toilet separated, there were insects, there was no proper sunlight. They wrote in how easy it was to sell, and there was a certainty of victory, almost a hundred percent, and that it would be judged in a million-dollar scale. Sure. Well, it's a business that needs to be shut down as soon as possible, but it shouldn't have been eliminated, it should have been prevented by now, and we're talking about it. I'd like to answer to István Hollik, although he's not here right now. He mentioned in his speech that it was now necessary to build a prison hospital, not to build a new prison. I agree that in the last two months, it has been or should have been a container hospital, hospital confirmation. But you had four years. How dare you refer to the last two months? For the last two months. And what was before that? What's been going on for four years? Why couldn't they at least start these construction projects? They could have done it just now when the Covid virus came in, and that's the only reason they couldn't make it happen. I don't think anyone's gonna believe me. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-19-247	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Hajas Barnabas, who is present on behalf of the authors, who clearly wishes to respond to the debate.
u2020-05-19-248	Yeah. Mr President, Dear House, Several points have been raised during the debate to which it is appropriate to respond. On the one hand, I would like to point out that the aim of regulation has always been to ensure that victim claims can be effectively enforced in the victim's, understandable language. Obviously, we have found that it is necessary to go on this path, that further progress is needed, but for example, I would like to point out that child support has been possible before. It is no coincidence that the prison building deadline or the time limit for the extension of prison facilities has not been moved or proposed to move it. [[0.20]] The reason for this is that additional seats are being built, so there is no need to change the time limit for the extension of the space accordingly. So this work is taking place, this work has been done before, the originally selected or set deadline can be held. It is important to note that, unlike Mr Arató, we did not find any reference to the national consultation, nor did we include any element of national consultation in the justification. It is important to note that the legislative proposal, which is subject to the deadline amendment, does not prevent payment but suspends it, and it is very important that this is necessary because we are seeking a real solution in order to ensure that victim claims can be properly enforced. It is also worth noting that, in the debate on this bill, the issues that have been dealt with in connection with the adoption of the 16th bill, that is to say, the question of the extent of the compensation is a bit off the agenda, but, as Mr Budai pointed out, with all the mistakes that we intend to remedy, this adopted law would have cost the Hungarian taxpayers significantly less than it would have been if Hungary had been banned operationally in the judgments of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-19-249	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After closing the general debate, the rapporteur summarised what was said in the debate and announced that the amendments could be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. Post-meeting speeches will follow. I give the floor to the right-hand Member of Ádám Steinmetz, who has asked to speak after the agenda, for what reason are the developments in Somogy not to take place? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-19-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have repeatedly said here among the walls of Parliament that the Marcal-centred constituency has been somehow avoided by substantial investments in job creation in recent years, and we would also like to know how much development comes from public money to our region on average, and how much for the rest of the country, specifically the Fidesz-led constituency and personally Attila Móring József has lobbying power at the imaginary table where development money is decided. We have been accustomed to the fact that, as Fidesz approaches the elections, Fidesz makes well-communicable, soundy plans and promises. For example, the purchase of the Balatonboglár wine farm, the acquisition of state ownership, such as the improvements promised to the Marcal hospital, such as the conversion of the Petőfi Sándor barracks into a military plant with the creation of 200-220 new jobs, such as the renovation and expansion of the Balaton bike circle passing through our constituency to a width of 3 metres. And do you know what these promises have in common? The fact that none of them have been realized. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre laughing: Yes!]] I ask you, what is the reason for this? And what is the reason why the MotoGP course at the border of Sávoly, with 20-30 percent readiness status, is not being implemented, but the Fidesz government is taking it to Eastern Hungary and wants to build a new MotoGP course there, probably hundreds of billions of forints of public money? We fully understand that Lajos Kósa is lobbying to get this development to the county of East Hungary, but we are shocked to see that Attila Móring József does not do anything to complete this project in Sávoly, so that, as a result of this, the region will be boosted, tax revenues, businesses will arrive and the beautiful Somogy country will host a well-known and recognised sporting event that we can be proud of. It's just a shock. Allow me to end by saying a few words about the investments that, although previously applied for, were approved, not even financed in one case, the money arrived, but did not come true! Such is the renovation of the railway station in Balatonmáriafürdő and Volánbusz station, such as the renovation of the preschool in Szépkovács, which received HUF 100 million, but still has not been completed; to date, the bicycle route connecting the Mesztgnyő with the Balatonmáriafürdő has not been completed, which has previously received HUF 500 million in development money; and the renovation of road 68 has not been completed, and now pay attention! It was already in 2007 that a government decision was in place to strengthen the track structure, to renovate the road, which is also an EU commitment, but this was not realized except for the Grandpa and Marcali bypass. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, allow me to ask the question on behalf of the people of Somogy: what is the reason why these improvements are not being made? And now I'm the only one asking you about it, but it doesn't take much longer than two years for people to question you. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-19-251	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. this morning. Good night. Meeting's closed.
