u2014-12-03-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our work today. The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Moring József and Mr Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The calendar indicates a nameful day. On Saturday, our children and grandchildren are expecting Santa Claus, and adults can remember St. Nicholas, Bishop of Myra. Tomorrow will be the day of Saint Barbara, patron saint of miners, smiths and artillery. On this occasion, I welcome the mining community, and I ask that we pay our respects to the sacrifice of the past and the miners of the present. Tomorrow, on the occasion of mining day, we remember that mining and metallurgy have been the most stable pillar of the national economy for many centuries in our country. Perhaps few know that the XIII. In the 18th century, our country gave five-sixths of the gold produced on the continent, one quarter of the silver, and even in the 1770s, 30 percent of the state's revenue came from mining and metallurgy in the highlands and Transylvania. We can be proud not only of the quantity extracted, but also of the knowledge accumulated at that time. Bergschule, a later Mining and Forestry Academy, was established in 1735, a knowledge centre for the 18th century. In the first century, which was recognised and visited across Europe. This is why Banská Štiavnica could become the centre of the Hungarian mining edge, the XIX. The starting point for end-of-century professional organizations. [[9.00]] [[Adam Mirkóczki takes over the notary seat.]] From the point of view of the domestic mining edge, the National Association of Mining and Coalition, which was founded in Selmecbánya in 1892 and sought out the successive governments with a number of proposals for mining and metallurgy, focusing their attention on the challenges of the profession and the difficulties and problems of the mining edge. It is also due to the establishment of the association that the mining society has been able to preserve its traditions over the past 100 years, it has been able to unite, establish a self-help group, build a hospital, still admired, create unique cultural values both in the field of art and within any sector. Over the past century, however, Hungary has lost the benefit of its traditional mining areas as a result of the Trianon peace dictatorship, and as a result of the changes in the world economy over the last few decades, Hungary has been forced to close the vast majority of its remaining mines. During this trying period, it was especially important that the values, traditions, and spiritual knowledge of mining society remain. The Hungarian Mining Association, founded in 1992, helped not only the survival of traditions, but also the development of new conditions for mining research, the start-up of thermal programs, the integration of mining power plants and domestic coal mining. In many places the raw materials that lie dormant in the earth have not yet run out, the expertise of the miners has not yet been lost, but only production has become uneconomical. Thus, the hope remains that by introducing new technologies and then reopening the gates of abandoned mines, even all of them may be worth reopening at some point. Trusting in this, and giving this faith, I wish you good luck on tomorrow's holiday - with a miner's greeting. Dear Parliament, Before we begin our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. István Hiller and Tamás Sneider, Vice-Presidents, have indicated their wish to speak during today's political debate. In the event of their opposition, the representatives of the Vice-Presidents may only lead the meeting during the debate if the Parliament has previously agreed to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that István Hiller and Tamás Sneider Vice-Presidents should be able to chair the meeting during the political debate. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, We now have the first item on the agenda today. Gergely Farkas, our betterman, and 49 other political debates were proposed:. The causes of migration from Hungary and possible solutions to halt the process. Motion to initiate a political debate V/1925. was available to all of them. I would like to ask Mr József Attila Móring to present the course of the political debate.
u2014-12-03-1	Dear Parliament, First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-12-03-2	Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate shall count towards the time of the pro-government factions, while the two-minute speeches shall be included in the time frame, with the exception of the response to personal concerns, and the rendezvous shall not be included in the time frame, as appropriate. On the meeting room information boards, interested parties can monitor the state of time and the use of time. I would like to remind you that during the adoption of the agenda, the Jobbik Group and the LMP Group made use of the possibility of doubling the timeframe. I now ask Mr. Ádám Mirkóczki to explain each time frame.
u2014-12-03-3	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 50 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2014-12-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The government's debate launch is now taking place in a 40-minute time frame. In doing so, I give the floor to Secretary Judit Bertalan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-12-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this debate day gives us an opportunity to speak frankly and on the basis of facts about this issue, which is generally opposed and not communicated in the right direction in the press, as well as to find a solution to our common goals and common problem on the subject of debate. In general, we can say that migration is not a fundamentally negative word and a non-negative process, but at the same time it is necessary to take advantage of all the opportunities that, by keeping and guiding migration well for the nation, the country can achieve good positions in the international and European context. According to a 2006 UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, migration is good because everyone can win or win with it. Basically, we believe that family ties, elementary school experiences, education have a major influence on personality development, so we believe - and therefore, in recent years, we have taken several steps by strengthening the public education system and continuing its development - that the public education system is suitable for building a bond with the country, a nation, and a kind of attitude in our children, with which migration can essentially represent and produce results and value for the future as a value and a value brought home. The school, if it provides strong and knowledge, also offers success, joy and prestige to children studying in it, and education as a capital in the future can be used both at home and in Europe. The school community is also capable of strengthening the community in which the child is studying, so with this strong sense of community it can offer a vision in its own country and community for the child as an opportunity for the child. It is the experience of belonging to the community that keeps our young people at home and restores them to material prosperity and self-realization. In terms of the effectiveness of the Hungarian public education system, it is crucial for us that the teaching profession is recognised at the appropriate level, and the most talented young people should choose the school system and the school that can bring them success and prosperity in the future in terms of their abilities. For teachers, successful and successful work is always the result of a good and successful child, a child who is a student or who chooses a good profession, a good career, as a result of his work. This is why it was of the utmost importance that we have been able to ensure not only prestige level recognition, but also existential level recognition for teachers through the introduction of the pedagogical career system, which we continuously provide to Hungarian teachers from 1 September 2013. [[9.10]] The career model has an incentive for teachers throughout their careers, guarantees the high quality of pedagogical work, employment security, adequate livelihoods, professional development, recognition of the role of teachers in society. This gives a chance to develop a vision that is important for children in classrooms, schools, as a result of the educational attitude of teachers. We all experience and have to acknowledge that the intercultural environment in which we live is certainly a challenge and a task for the future, which we must meet at the same time. As early as 2006, the European Parliament and the Council issued Recommendation 962, which collected key competences for lifelong learning. In this context, key competences are essential in a knowledge-based society and ensure greater flexibility for the workforce, allowing for faster adaptation to permanent changes in an increasingly interlinked world. Innovation, production and competitiveness are also important factors that contribute to the motivation and satisfaction of workers and to the quality of work. You are aware that communication in a foreign language is one of the most important elements of the key competence set, which, in addition to the main skills of communication in the mother tongue, includes the skills of mediation and intercultural understanding. The most effective acquisition of these skills in a foreign language environment is much more likely. To this end, we strongly support the foreign scholarship programmes of Hungarian students. The Ministry of Human Resources also operates two national offices to coordinate the new programme of the European Union, Erasmus Plus. Between 2014 and 2020, the programme will provide EUR 14.7 billion to strengthen European education, training, the youth profession and sport, covering sectors such as public education, vocational training, higher education, adult learning, youth and sport. As a result of the programme launched by the Hungarian government, many Hungarian students have recently participated in the Austrian part-training courses. In the Hungarian press, there are a number of articles that show that Hungarian young people are going abroad to university, and this is, of course, the fault of the government at all times. One of the greatest achievements of modern Europe is that student mobility is available to anyone. Our students go to foreign countries to gain knowledge, experience, and students come from abroad to our Hungarian universities. But what do the statistics show today? In Hungary, some 337 thousand students continued their studies in higher education institutions until October 2012. This number includes 20 176 foreign students studying in Hungary. If we subtract the number of foreigners from the total number, then we can talk about some 317 thousand students of Hungarian citizenship, who continue their higher education studies in Hungary and Hungary. It can be concluded that the proportion of foreign students in Hungary was 5.9 percent overall in autumn 2012. In October 2013, the total number of students accounted for some 320 thousand, of which 23 208 were foreign citizens. It is worth paying attention to the increase or increase in numbers over a year. Thus, the proportion of foreign students increased to 7.8 percent. We have data on Hungarian students studying abroad in 2011. According to this, the number of students in the most popular target countries, despite all the rumors, has not changed dramatically. In 2011, according to official Austrian statistics, 1539 students of Hungarian citizenship studied at universities, but at the same time only 1677 students studied in Germany, with 1147 Hungarian students in the United Kingdom. Since the vast majority of young Hungarians speak English or German, the number of students with Hungarian citizenship ranges from dozens to a few hundred in other European countries. Compared with the figures of German higher education in 2011, the total number of students is 2.2 million, of which 252,000 are foreign citizens, i.e. 11,3 percent of students. This ratio is higher than the currently measured 7.8 percent in Hungary, which, on the one hand, designates a potential for development in Hungarian higher education and, on the other hand, clearly indicates the attractiveness of quality higher education in a world-speaking country. However, Germany does not only receive students. According to German statistics, in 2010 some 127 thousand students of German citizenship studied in foreign higher education institutions, which is 6.4 percent of the nearly 2 million German students studying in Germany. This ratio is three times the rate of 2.2 percent Hungarian data. Should we conclude from this that German higher education is in great trouble, because because of poor quality it does not attract German students, who are desperate for foreign learning because of their government's mistake, even more than Hungarians? The answer is clearly no. Overall, we can say that the attractiveness of Hungarian higher education is high, the proportion of foreign students studying in Hungary is high, and their number and proportion is increasing much faster than the number and proportion of Hungarians studying abroad is changing. The number and proportion of Hungarians studying abroad are below the figures in neighbouring countries, and the rate of increase in the number of higher education students abroad is below the rate in other countries. The increase in the number of students abroad in the European Union does not describe the quality of higher education, education in a given country, or the picture or position of higher education policy in that country. The increased international mobility of young people in Europe today is a natural process, not an escape, which is demonstrated by the fact that in its proportions much more Germans are studying abroad, such as Hungarians. The only difference is that while the German press is pleased to see this European process, the Hungarian press is merely visiting young people who have been driven away instead of trying to find out the facts. The Hungarian government will continue to prioritise the mobility of teachers, educators, education and training experts, students in higher education and vocational training, students in master's degree. The development of key competences and skills, in particular those relevant to the labour market and social cohesion, can, in particular, be the most effective way to help with these mobility for study purposes. In our educational institutions, strengthening quality, innovation and internationalisation can also be achieved primarily by promoting international cooperation, involving actors beyond the world of education and training. In addition, the Hungarian government is also aware that the Hungarian migrant population - according to KSH data, 350,000 persons at the beginning of 2013 - 25 percent are under the age of 30 and 63 percent are under the age of 40. The emigrants have a higher education and a higher degree, most of them live in the European Union's countries, including Germany, Britain and Austria. However, the number of Hungarian citizens living abroad is still low in European comparison. Between 2010-13, we are talking about 4.9 and 5.3 percent of the population, which is only slightly higher than the Italian ratio of 4.7 and 5 percent or measure. In Romania, for example, this ratio varies from 14.9 to 16.6 percent, and in Slovenia with much higher GDP than in Hungary between 7.4 and 7.7 percent. Our migration balance is also fundamentally positive, and we also receive highly qualified professionals. According to a KSH data, migration today seems to refer to a phase of life, previously, when a person chose to work abroad or study abroad, it was a basically final decision. It's not generalized anymore. [[9.20]] This is therefore a general European trend, and migration from the north-west to the south-east in Europe is increasing, which is closely linked to the relative economic performance of the country. That is why it is important to maintain economic growth. In Hungary, with the exception of graduate migration, health and, to a lesser extent, engineering jobs, there has been no shortage of professionals so far, so there are basically the right professionals available to operate the economy and public services. As the statistics show that the most vulnerable age group of emigration comes from the young adult age group, the most important task of the Hungarian government is to ensure the social security of this age group in Hungary. The other incentive factor is to help have children. It's even more difficult to reconcile with work abroad because there's no one to help. Thus, it is often decided to return home to families, mothers, or young adults who are having a baby. It is important to create an environment for young people where they are happy and bravely to start a family, where they are not afraid that childbearing will endanger their financial security, that they cannot provide adequate housing conditions, that it will be difficult to integrate and reintegrate into the labour market or that the conditions for day care for young children are incomplete. The government will therefore launch a five-point action programme, the first element of which is the preservation of the family tax scheme. The family tax relief of two children will be increased from HUF 10 000 per child to HUF 20,000 in 2019. This represents a surplus of HUF 55-60 billion for families. New measure is the first married tax relief from 2015. In order to improve housing conditions, families with one child will also be able to benefit from the so-called Socpol and not only for the purchase of new, but also for the expansion of existing housing. Women's jobs would be supported and helped by the government by tax incentives to employers for the same gross wage of HUF 100,000 for a parent with a child working part-time as for full-time parents. In the case of parents with three or more children, part-time employment should be compulsory for the employer for 5 years instead of 3 if he so requests. The aim of the day-to-day placement of young children is to increase the number of cradle seats from 42,000 to 60,000 in 2018. It is easier for university students to have children, to which they are entitled, who have at least two six months of active student rights in the two years prior to the birth of their children, and children are born during or within one year of their student status. Since 1 January 2014, mothers with small children will no longer have to give up maternity benefits in addition to raising children. Hungary's economic growth can be sustained in the long term by enabling environmental and social structures to become economic resources for the development and development of the economy. This effort is supported by improvements that can lead to growth in employment and social capital, growth, reduced dependency and environmental risk, and an efficient and sustainable use of natural resources. Therefore, the resources allocated to economic operators and markets as well as to economic infrastructure development are complementary to social and environmental investments. Hungary has planned interventions involving young people in nine operational programmes, whose overall impact is on migration. Among these, the operational programme for the development of human resources is of paramount importance. I have mentioned the problem of emigration of healthcare workers, which is stagnating as a result of government measures, and we hope that it will decrease in the years to come. The first measure to improve the income situation took the form of a one-off benefit for healthcare workers in 2011. The revenue from the public health product tax has been charged for the payment of an allowance corresponding to the three-month amount of the additional salary linked to the work allowance for workers at increased or higher risk, with higher workload. The one-off allowance affected nearly 70,000 people regardless of the employer and cost over HUF 5.5 billion. In 2012 and 13, 95 thousand healthcare workers received wage increases in two steps. A total of HUF 75.69 billion in additional payments were made to healthcare providers in the two years related to the development of the health sector, with an average increase of 27 per cent of the gross income of people employed in hospitals and specialist institutions in two years. In connection with wage increases, we have developed a health sector promotion system, a pay table for health workers in public-funded housing and outpatient care, which sets out the lowest mandatory wage. Over two years, the salary of the residents increased by HUF 75,000, the gross salary of a large number of specialists increased by HUF 105 thousand, and the gross salary of the graduates increased by HUF 41,000. More than HUF 10 billion has been spent from EU funds to promote employment and improve the level of education of healthcare workers. Under this programme, 18,000 people received different training or support. As a result of measures to keep health workers, we have reversed the job trend for migrant workers. In 2013, for the second year, fewer doctors asked for a certificate to work abroad than in the previous year. The number of doctors applying to work abroad is lower than in 2010. In 2013, 14 percent less doctors asked for a certificate for foreign employment than in the previous year. The number of doctors who more accurately indicate the intention of emigration and request an official certificate for the first time has fallen even more significantly by almost 28 percent. The number of nurses applying for a certificate increased significantly in 2012, in 2013, due to the government's measures, the increase was lower for all applicants and the decrease for the first time in comparison to the previous year's data. All in all, there are, therefore, government measures to tackle the negative trends in migration in both family policy and school system, higher education and health. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-6	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first among which will be held by the speaker in a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are debating a very important issue in Parliament today. I think that, although it is an opposition initiative before this House, it has many aspects that we need to discuss long and meaningfully, because it is not enough and it cannot be... [[L. Simon László: The government has not finished yet. Mr. President, we're telling you now. Mrs. Czunyi, Dr. Judit Bertalan is going up to the presidential stage.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Mr President, there is a point of order here.
u2014-12-03-8	I apologize, but not in my script. The government has a 40-minute time frame to keep its exposure. I haven't been notified, but the 40-minute time frame will allow you to share it at any time, and the house rules will give you the opportunity to do so. Then I shall give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, under my leadership, and apologise to Congressman Erik Bánki. With all due respect, I'd like to ask the government to do another time to predict this, because the script is binding the lead president. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-9	Thank you very much for your word and understanding, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, International migration is a topical and extremely complex issue, which is judged completely differently by the actors concerned. The host countries are talking about social dumping, fearing that the incoming labour force is causing social tension, because migrant workers are pushing wages down and pushing the domestic labour force out of the labour market. [[9.30]] In the case of sending countries, however, the main problem is the emigration of young people and skilled workers, as well as the persistent shortage of labour in specific fields. The European Commission is concerned about the competitiveness of the EU in the world economy and advocates the greatest possible labour mobility. The Commission's position on this issue is clear: no Member State can decide to respect those favourable to it out of the four freedoms of the European Union, while limiting those which are contrary to their national interests. This applies, of course, to the free movement of labour. While the impact of migration is viewed differently by individual Member States, the common European objective, which concerns catching up with less developed countries in the EU, is not disputed. Hungary, breaking off with previous practice, intends to devote 60% of these resources to direct economic development, which, among other things, hopes that the current migratory pressure will be reduced and that the flow of labour will gradually reverse. Following the enlargement of the European Union in 2004, there has been an increase in the number of people working in the old Member States from the new accession countries, but we do not have accurate data on this. According to various surveys and research, which are mostly of limited validity, the willingness to work abroad indicates strong growth. This trend can be seen throughout Europe, but unfortunately it cannot be seen as a Hungarian phenomenon. The strengthening of international migration affects many segments of the economy; not only the labour market, but also savings, budget balance, social cohesion, economic growth, growth prospects and inflation through various channels. On this basis, the government considers it extremely important to be aware of the causes, consequences, scale and expected development of emigration. It should be pointed out that we are faced with a problem the characteristics of which we do not know enough. One of the main shortcomings is that we do not have reliable statistical data, which is why the media, but also in Parliament, have a wide range of figures on the extent of migration. Everyone is talking about increasing migration, while no one has accurate and reliable data for each country. From hundreds of thousands of migrations to millions of scale, all kinds of figures have been published. It is clear that when discussing the issue, many concepts are mixed up, making discernment more difficult. From research among young people to assess the willingness to work abroad, there are many approaches, ranging from temporary migrant workers working abroad for seasonal reasons to permanent foreigners. As far as statistical surveys are concerned on a regular basis, we should have two sources. One could be the calculation of the number of Hungarian employees from the labour force surveys of the other EU countries. However, this does not include guest workers who live in hotels, parade buildings, workshops or those who do not undertake to work illegally in that country. Therefore, the total number of workers working abroad can only be estimated with a very large error. Eurostat does not publish such data, but it is supposed to be predictable from the labour force surveys in the Member States. There is often a question of so-called mirror statistics from other Member States of the European Union. They are essentially not suitable for measuring migration because they do not measure in the same conceptual system, so the data of each country cannot be aggregated. In most countries, for example, only the number of new entrants per month is recorded. For example, the British social security register, which says nothing about how many people actually reside in the country at that time and how many of them do work. Another important barrier to these two approaches is that migration not only takes place within the European Union, but also covers practically the whole world, so that the observation of labour movements within the EU does not cover the whole of international migration, but only part of it. The main focus is provided by the Hungarian labour force survey of KSH, which records the place of work of the 15-74-year-olds of the household surveyed. Of course, only those who have not given up their apartment in Hungary will be informed here. According to this, the average annual population of Hungarians working abroad, who also have a home, amounted to 10 thousand at the turn of the millennium, 51 thousand in 2010 and around 100,000 in the third quarter of 2014. On this basis, since 2010, less than 50,000 of the 360,000 workers have been working abroad. It is also true that last year's economic growth has halted the growth of migration within the year. As part of a recently published KSH research, an attempt was made to determine the number of people working abroad. This showed that at the beginning of 2013, 350 thousand Hungarians who left Hungary after 1989 and at least a year before the survey. If we add those who work abroad temporarily, i.e. for less than one year, we are also aware of up to 450 thousand Hungarian citizens who live or work in part outside Hungary. It's less than 5 percent of the population. They did not leave the country since 2010, but during the 25 years following the change of regime. If we look at the emigration rates of the European Commission for the last 10 years, Hungary is the last of the countries in Central and Eastern Europe; for example, while more than 9 percent of Romania's workforce has gone abroad, the same ratio was 2.4 per cent for Hungary. This also indicates that the Hungarian labour force is the least mobile among the countries that joined the Union with us. Dear Parliament, Consider the tools we have to reduce migration. We know that the majority of young people between the ages of 20 and 39 with secondary or tertiary education move abroad. This means that the government can do the most by creating an economic environment that provides an adequate career and perspective for young people. In the area of employment policy, we must do what is necessary to attract young people home, by creating competitive prospects and an attractive vision for them at home. Accordingly, the government pays particular attention to improving the situation of young people in the labour market. Among our actions, I must highlight the Youth Guarantee Programme, which will start at the end of 2014, in which the Government intends to ensure that all young people under the age of 25 receive competitive job offers within four months of the loss of employment or the completion of their studies, or, where appropriate, further education, apprenticeships or internships by 2018. We have expanded the support for young people to become entrepreneurs with the opportunities available for the same age group. By transforming the vocational training system, strengthening dual training to ensure modern and up-to-date practical knowledge, we also help young people to find a job. Dear House, As I have already said, there is a clear correlation between wages and willingness to emigration. The level of wages in Hungary is essentially not different from that of the other Visegrád countries. It is worth choosing this point of reference because here the differences remain within 10-20 percent, while we are lagging behind several times compared to the developed countries. [[9.40]] If you count in purchasing power parities, then the differences are smaller. In terms of the purchasing value of wages, German and English incomes are, of course, two and a half to three times higher than domestic according to 2013 data. Of course, we must also estimate the progress made so far in raising wages. In the last four years, real wages have increased on average by around 10 percent at national level, taking into account the impact of family benefits. This is twice our GDP growth. The growth of real wages in the competitive sector, with the exception of 2012. After budgetary stabilisation in the public sector, wages could be significantly increased from 2013 onwards. The purchase value of the minimum wage has increased by 7.2 percent in the last two years, i.e. in 2013 and 2014. The Hungarian minimum wage has increased by the third of the EU countries in the last four years. According to Eurostat data, on 1 January 2014, the Hungarian minimum wage was EUR 342 at the PPS exchange rate. With this, among the 21 countries where there is a national minimum wage, we are in 16th place, together with the other Visegrad countries in the lower third. The situation is already slightly better in the purchasing power parities: the sum of EUR 573 is 14th in the ranking, ahead of, for example, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Dear Parliament, The government's economic and social policies look to the future. We are well aware that only by improving economic performance, in particular by increasing productivity, can we achieve a substantial catch-up of wages. This is the only way to ensure that a significant increase in wages in the business sector does not undermine competitiveness and does not have a negative impact on employment. In the public sector, only economic growth and increased tax revenues from it can provide increased resources for wages to rise significantly without compromising the fiscal balance. It is well known that we have done a lot and have achieved much in this area. Hungary's economic prospects are favourable, which is further improved, so that in the future 60% of EU funds will be spent directly on economic development and job creation. This will create a chance for more and more people to find jobs at home and a significant increase in wages for us as well. In 2013, the Hungarian economy moved towards a more sustainable and balanced growth structure. The quarterly figures of the past period indicate that this trend is becoming permanent. Labour market developments typically follow the trend of economic activity with one or two quarterly delays. This is supported by recent Hungarian experiences. In the second half of last year, the development of growth at the beginning of 2013 was coupled with the emerging labour market trend. According to our calculations, stable, balanced and dynamic GDP growth is expected in the coming years, supported by the Commission's current prognosis. Consequently, we can expect further employment growth, coupled with an increase in gross wages and salaries. As a result of favourable disinflationary processes, which are strongly supported by government measures to reduce debt, real wages can also grow dynamically. Consequently, the improvement in the macroeconomic outlook is countering further emigration. In the health sector vulnerable to emigration, the government has made wage increases in recent years. Next year, GPs will have additional resources. The increase in teachers' income will continue in the coming years. Next year, armed and law enforcement workers will be able to launch a career model for public service officials as of 2016. Dear Parliament, In summary, the government will help to increase the number of domestic jobs, increase wages and improve the situation of families by every means available. These are the conditions that reduce the rate of migration. In order to create jobs, the first and foremost is to support economic growth, the development of competitive production sectors, and, in addition, to help create new jobs indirectly and directly through the regulatory and support system. By supporting families, reducing the cost of living and increasing the income that remains with them, one of the main causes of emigration is eliminated. I trust that in the not-so-distant future, not only the negative but also the positive effects of many young Hungarians getting work experience abroad. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It is now really up to the Members' speeches. As I said before, in the first round of these speeches will be held, I would like to address Mr Bánki, the lead speaker of the Group of the Fidesz Group, first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Better twice than never. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, It is a very important debate day today; although we are discussing the issue of opposition initiative, but we are also looking at the issue before the House, and I am also very pleased that we have been able to provide the time frame, so that we will have more opportunities to have a truly meaningful debate supported by arguments, at the end of which a summary can be drawn up that we hope will find good solutions for the future for the whole of Hungarian society. I have to point out that I naturally disagree with the title of the debate day itself, because it only covers a very small section of the issue that we need to talk about, when we are discussing the reason why certain sections of Hungarian society, especially young people, are working abroad, but we can safely say that the people of the Middle Ages are also working abroad in large numbers. When we talk about emigration in relation to the study and employment of young people and less young people abroad, this concept is generally social, it is obvious in politics that the opposition is also mistakenly associating. After all, socialism had the circumstances in which leaving abroad meant emigration, as we remember precisely that at that time dissidenting, leaving abroad without the permission of the state, for a long time, for at least ten years, it was forbidden, and it also took away the possibility for someone who went abroad to return to Hungary. We can't talk about this after the change of regime, of course. Therefore, it is pointless to talk about emigration and emigration when young people are studying abroad, or work in European countries for a longer or shorter period of practice, or work abroad for a few years to help establish a family life, and then repatriate to Hungary to make it easier for them to start their careers at home from their incomes set aside outside, or to improve their employment opportunities in Hungary. So we can talk about a very wide circle, it is not worth narrowing it down to the fact that people from Hungary are going abroad because they want to leave the country, and they have no intention of ever returning to Hungary. We also need to see that today's Europe is an enlarged, completely different dimension than it was 15 years ago or even 20 years ago, not to mention the period before 1990. Today's young generation of 20s and 30s is the first to have the concept of travelling abroad no longer linked to emigration, protest against power, but with the opportunity to learn about other cultures and try themselves in those alien cultures. Today's young people are already socialised by the change of system that borders are open, and within them, we can move, learn and work in particular after our accession to the European Union. Since 2011, every Hungarian citizen has had the opportunity to work in any Member State of the European Union, which is a prerequisite for the possibility of free movement of labour. [[9.50]] Therefore, the fact that many people are working abroad, although some political forces are trying to use it to dissatisfaction with the government, has not yet been discussed, we can also make this clear in this debate. I would also like to prove to you below why I say this, why I think that the fact that young people, middle-aged people or even older people are working abroad from Hungary is not at all the basis of dissatisfaction with the government or dissatisfaction with living conditions in Hungary, but can simply be supported by either professional studies or simply by foreign challenges or, obviously, the attraction caused by the difference between Hungarian average wages and foreign average wages. Let us look at the situation in other countries of Europe. I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen - as Mr András Tállai said - that the situation in Central Europe is still the best in Hungary, when we consider the percentage of society that really lives and works abroad. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the EBRD, in its 2007 report, pointed out that the Polish working abroad are making a good contribution to the economic recovery, because they spend their foreign income not only on outside consumption, but also on sending them home to their own country and helping their families at home, and preparing economic enterprises that will provide them with jobs and livelihoods after moving back. In 2007, ladies and gentlemen, the amount returned by Polish migrant workers exceeded EUR 4 billion, as indicated by the National Bank of Poland, and in the three years following 2004, the amount of transfers in Poland doubled. The Polish have invested much of the money, so it is estimated that they contributed 0.1-0.2 percent to the growth of Polish GDP. In terms of numbers, in this period, in the 2000s, almost two million Poles worked throughout Europe. What we need to see is that, obviously, Hungary too - as I have said - is a strong attraction for working abroad, that unfortunately Hungarian salaries cannot compete with German, English or possibly Italian salaries, so I think that in itself it is not at all a disadvantage if this attraction means that a few tens of thousands or even a few hundred thousand people are temporarily taking up work abroad. I think the fact in itself that someone is taking up work abroad does not have to mean at all that he is permanently established in that country. I think that the task of Hungarian governments at all times is to create an economic environment, a social environment in Hungary that can be attractive to return, because I myself know from my own age through my friends and acquaintances that those who return home after 3-4 years of work abroad are looking at the world with a whole different perspective, can create much more added value either for economic growth or for scientific life in Hungary than they did before they left. Let's see what the numbers look like in Hungary! The estimates of KSH show that the average annual population of Hungarians working abroad who also resided in Hungary amounted to 10 thousand people at the turn of the millennium; in 2010 they exceeded 50,000; in the third quarter of 2014, they amounted to around 100,000 people. On this basis, it is safe to say that the increase in their numbers since the change of government in 2010 is not surprising at all compared to previous figures: since 2000, they have increased significantly year after year, decade after decade, which is not necessarily an assessment of the work of the current government, but, as I said, the opening up of European borders, i.e. the expansion of the European field of vision. Of course, you have memories of how some ministers and prime ministers have spoken about Hungarian workers or even the Hungarian people. They all remember Ferenc Gyurcsány saying that it is possible to leave Hungary. I think this is a wrong and very wrong policy, and today's Hungarian government is in the opposite position, and our slogan just sounds like: come home, because Hungary can offer better conditions as well, and we can become increasingly competitive with the European economy. It is a significant fact that almost half of the 360-370 thousand Hungarian citizens working abroad were still working abroad during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, so it is not true that under the Orbán government, after the 2010 government change, there would have been a major change in this emigration under the government of national cooperation, although the financial and economic crisis in 2008 has undoubtedly contributed significantly enough to the increase in the number of people working abroad, since in Hungary - all of my fellow Members saw it well - the serious decline in the economy, the loss of jobs and, unfortunately, the breakdown of families have also increased significantly. Let's look at our neighbors. Departure, as I have just said, is a general phenomenon in Central Europe. According to Eurostat's survey, most of our neighbouring countries work from Romania in proportion to their population, with a population of more than 9%. But here are some interesting figures for you, ladies and gentlemen: Lithuania and Latvia are following Romania, which, by the way, if we look at the standard of living available in the countries in question, this is indeed a surprising figure for Lithuania and Latvia, since more than 8 percent of Lithuania's population and almost 7 percent of Latvia's population are working abroad. Then Bulgaria follows the line by 4.5 per cent, Poland by 4.4 per cent, Estonia by 3.3 per cent, and Slovakia by 3.3 per cent, while Hungary by 2.4 per cent, as State Secretary Tállai said. So once again - the figures prove this - that we are not talking about a Hungarian problem, but this is a Central European phenomenon that affects Hungary to the smallest extent among the Central European countries. Of course, we know - it is very important, as I have already mentioned - that we can offer conditions for young people and older people in Hungary that maintain the possibility of a return. I think that the Hungarian government has done everything since 2010 to attract people from Hungary who work abroad temporarily or in the longer term. I'll give you some information and data on this. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that there are few countries in Europe where a young couple can expect that the more children they take, the more tax relief they get. The system of Hungarian family tax relief is unique in Europe, not only in its generosity, but also in its size and width: all Hungarian families can benefit from the benefits for children, even if the level of income tax is below the level of the discount; then, according to the current legislation, they can also draw the amount of the family tax allowance from their contributions. The system of family tax relief leaves more than HUF 230 billion to the Hungarian families this year, and the government intends to continue to expand in the coming years; between 2016 and 2019, ladies and gentlemen, the rate of tax relief for children will double in several steps. There are few countries in Europe where Gyed extra construction works. I would like to mention to you a data from November: this has helped 27,000 families with small children this year. In 2012 and 2013, the government spent HUF 75.7 billion on additional resources for wage increases, thus the average gross earnings of people employed in hospitals and clinics increased by 27 percent over two years. The same has not been the case in this country in the last decade. Residents have received new scholarships from the government. The Markusovszky Scholarship and the Than Károly Scholar Scholar Scholarship awarded to candidates for specialist medicine are worth 100 thousand HUF per month, while the Károly Méhes Scholar Scholar Scholarship for candidates for infant and paediatric medicine is 200,000 extra income for young beginners. With the help of the Resident Support Programme, more than 1,700 young doctors and pharmacists have been kept in Hungary, as we know that working abroad is the biggest problem in the medical and healthcare sector. So I think that the direction set by the government is good and to be followed. A number of measures are included in the government's programme for the period 2014-2018, so that we can safely say that we can provide better conditions for those who, temporarily or in the longer term, thought that it would be safer for them and would be better for them to work abroad. [[10.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The three most important questions of life are where you come from, where you go, and what the purpose of your journey is. If we look at the past period and the current situation from this point of view, then I can say that the answer to the question from where you come is clear that the Hungarian government started in 2010 from the total collapse of the country. We have managed to achieve - in a unique way - the most effective crisis management in Europe - that Hungary is Europe's leading learner in economic growth, Europe's leading learner in job creation, and Europe's leading learner in the effectiveness of measures in public security. The answer to the question where you are going is clear: our aim is to make Hungary a safer and secure country for families; a country where every young person who starts a career should have a job; anyone from the active population who wants to take a job should have the opportunity to get a job in Hungary that can sustain their family; and finally, every student in the Hungarian education system should have the opportunity to get to what they are capable of, based on their talent and not on their living conditions. I think that the conditions are appropriate in Hungary today. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I can already see that we are sitting across from each other, we are saying something, and you are painting the picture of Hungary. In the last five or six years, the mass emigration of young people from Hungary has started. The increase in the number of migrants who have left abroad is the saddest, now slowly said, of the Fidesz-KDNP administration so far. This process, which has accelerated rapidly in recent years, can go through all our future ideas on Hungary's economic recovery. According to one expert, 7-8 percent of those in childbearing age today - but some say 10 percent - are abroad, while for a decade this ratio was 1-2 percent. In this regard, in recent months, I have asked Minister Balog a number of questions. Minister of State has stated that what does the government do to stop the emigration of women of childbearing age and to allow more children to be born? Question: 94.7 thousand Hungarians work abroad. Compared to this, it was published on the government's website on the day when the reply was sent that the number of Hungarian citizens in Britain is over 100,000, and the number of Hungarians with non-Hungarian citizenship is approaching 200,000. We remember that earlier György Matolcsy estimated the number of emigrants to be half a million. For all these reasons, I have asked further questions about whether the number of emigrants is falling or increasing. Then I was told by Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, that the total number of Hungarian citizens working abroad is estimated to be around 280 to 300 thousand, taking into account countries within Europe. At times like this, you have to ask what exactly this number is. Then, at the press conference on October 15, 2014, KSH spoke of 350 thousand people. Unfortunately, it seems that this serious issue is not taken seriously by the government. It should be pointed out that today those who leave Hungary are generally performance-oriented young people, the most active, in most cases the most qualified social groups. Today, not every third young person under the age of 30 thinks that he wants to go abroad, but every second, 50 percent of Hungarian youths. There are a lot of questions about how many young people want to go out, how many people want to emigrate, how many people are actually out of the country, how many families have moved abroad in the last four years. But one thing must be noted: these people are hopeless young people, most of whom are childless, which is also linked to the decrease in birth numbers. And of course, there are those who have to leave their families home for a living. These young people are businessmen of the future, doctors of the future, nurses of the future, skilled workers of the future, taxpayers of the future, they could form the families of the future Hungary, they are the parents of the future. A recent survey, which is no longer representative, concludes the following about a group of emigrants:. The average Hungarian, who emigrated to the island country, was educated, young and moved to the United Kingdom just two years ago. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to the research, immigrants do not want to come home at all because of the economic situation, at least in the next five years. The Hungarian economy cannot bear the absence of these people, the budget, the social security and the pension system cannot take it. The lack of hundreds of thousands less taxpayers is the best hit by the Hungarian economy; it affects GDP growth and the economy as a whole. Since 2010, the willingness to leave has not decreased, but has increased dramatically in recent years. In 2012, the number of people arriving in Germany increased by 46 percent compared to the previous year. But not only young people who want to work leave our country, but also young people who want to learn, who are pushed out of the home education system. These young people, who have not been estimated by their own country, will start a family abroad, build their existence there, and settle there. And imagine, dear members of the government, that's where they're going to have a baby. And now I'd like to talk a little more about the birth of a child. On the one hand, we know that, according to the demographers, women of childbearing age - I mentioned at the outset - are 8-7, but some people already say that 10 percent live abroad. According to the data of the Immigration and Nationality Office, 7694 children born abroad were registered in Hungary in 2012 and 9141 children born abroad in 2013. Given the number of children born in those years on the basis of the data available according to KSH, we do know that in 2010 there were 90 269 and in 2011 there was the worst birth number not seen in 24 years, representing 88 689 people, in 2012, 8.5% of children were born abroad and 10.3% of children were born abroad in 2013. According to the press, the previous staff figures included the children of Hungarians and dual citizens abroad and not only the newborns of those who moved abroad temporarily for a shorter or longer period. KSH provided information on a smaller number. The question to the press about the number of children born in 2013 by Hungarian women with a Hungarian address but living in other EU Member States was answered by the birth certificate of 1795 babies last year. In view of the fact that statistics may be quite different, a layman or the government itself considers emigrants, it is also difficult to decide whose children should be considered as born abroad or even living in Hungary. Moreover, not all Hungarian couples living abroad are likely to have their children registered in Hungary. So the data provided by the KSH may not be quite real. Furthermore, people living in the territory of Hungary who are not double-nationals are increasing the number of Hungarian citizens, but this still does not mean that the population of those living in Hungary is growing. In addition, there are children who were born in Hungary, but are not raised here. And they will not grow up here, work, pay taxes, and, not least, have children. Theoretically, it should be in the various state institutions, there could be data on the number of children who were born at home, but have temporarily or permanently moved out with their parents working abroad; if not for other reasons, because of preschool and school obligations, of course, only if they announce this fact by their parents and, if at all, national aggregated data are prepared. So, basically, we do not know how much the government's population program is helping families in their homes to have children, we can say here: if it helps at all. [[10.10]] This year, childbearing increased by 3.1 percent, and I have to say here that I listed these data because it is not possible to specifically refer to the fact that the number of children born at home has increased population. To sum up, it is possible to ask whether anyone in Hungary today, whoever it is, knows if there is an office who can tell us how many children are born in a year. I would like to quote from the press conference of KSH a few weeks ago:. The systematic development of migration statistics requires the integration of administrative data systems. We propose the establishment of a permanent body on migration and its social impact, established from various actors in the public administration, which can coordinate and support a wide range of public administration and other registers, and is able to initiate a continuous review of the statistical and other investigations data system. The question arises whether KSH is able to carry out its task or not to perform its task, to provide us with real data from month to month, or to continuously cosmetrate the data. We hope that someday we will get an answer from the current government. György Matolcsy, former Minister of National Economy, wrote in 2013 that at least one million of our citizens are missing at home, while London, some Austrian and German cities have attracted almost half a million Hungarians in recent decades. According to him, cities need to be developed because 500,000 EU workers are only coming home to dynamically developing cities. It has to be said that György Matolcsy is absolutely right. Unfortunately, this has not been confirmed by the economic policy, social policy, education policy and family policy of recent years. The government's economic, education, social policy and family policy have failed. He forces crowds to leave his own country. For the sake of young people and Hungarian families, the Hungarian government should do the following. You should build a well-developed, attractive country where young people can learn - I would stress: they can learn - and then work and start a family by creating decent living conditions and living standards. Now, while discussing the 2015 budget, I ask the government to accept the amendments tabled by the MSZP, because this budget will further strengthen the number of migrants from Hungary. I would like to say one more sentence to the attention of the pro-government representatives: the child is the key to the future. Consider this. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr János Harghitai. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The first question during such debates is always in me, who has lived a lot in this Parliament, whether these debates make sense; because of course it would be good to have them. But getting into a role where the opposition says smart and expectations weakly, and the pro-government representative wants to defend himself, or don't give up, God, he wants to improve his performance, and this debate doesn't make any sense at all. In what is on the agenda here, if not, in relation to emigration, there is already a value judgment in this which we do not have any ammunition to declare, either for us or for you, who give this title to talk about emigration in Hungary. Let us face it: we do not even know exactly how many people are affected. As a responsible pro-government Member, I like to think in larger numbers, and I say that it could affect even a small county population, so that at least in this respect we do not argue with each other. So I don't want to play ball and reduce this issue. I also know, knowing the number of workers in other countries temporarily absent, that in such an East-Central European comparison, which Erik Bánki said, the Hungarian number is still relatively small. Whether it's worth or not in this sense, I don't know, I don't necessarily consider it a small value. I'll look into why I think that later. My first statement is that talking about migration - unless we are motivated by political intentions and then the whole debate is pointless - is unnecessary, because I think that many of these people are absent today because they are forced, but most of these people want to and will come back. We have to work here in Parliament's horseshoe to make sure that this is not an emigration, but a temporary job abroad. These workers are very diverse. Migration in the European area and not only in the European area has always been, and I think there will always be, and not only in the history of the European Union, but also in older stories. If I look at this wall and this beautiful building and think of Imre Steindl, I must mention that the descendants of a former German migrant designed this building. If I look at the Secretary of State, who is sitting in front of me, who has been quite rightly talking about the Hausmann plan as a great plan recently and in an uplifting way, then we can again talk about the descendant of a former German migrant who has done a great deal for this country. So I could also say that at some point the direction of migration has spread from today's European centre to our direction, when, let us say, the Germans settle in a mass in this country destroyed by the Turks and build this country. We also know the decades when Hungarians, looking for opportunities, went mass towards the New World and built the New World. So somewhere we have to consider this phenomenon to be natural, and knowing the values of the European Union, these movements in Europe would seem unquestionable. For example, England is today a country that questions this. You would think, in a layman's way, that if I was a country of destination for migration, so the migrants would come towards me, let's talk about England, the socialist lead speaker might have quoted most of English numbers, presumed or real English data, then it's a happy state, because they're coming towards us; they're coming to us because we're the opportunity. Well, in England, it causes immense problems and political storms, that many come and come with people they would not wish for. England is threatening to leave the European Union if it cannot stop this European freedom, the free movement of labour and free movement in some way. Of course, it is not the labour force that disturbs the English basically, but the labour force, often associated with the labour force and using the values of the social institutional system, or less valuable labour force. So in this respect too, the perception may be diverse, that where they are going, the people there may not necessarily consider it as positive as we might think. When we look at the various factors in production as to what movements have been made, especially in the European Union, we know well that products could first move freely by breaking down customs borders. No one in the European Union is questioning the rationality of this now. In fact, I can say that if I look at another factor of production, the movement of capital, I do not see such a big debate in Europe either, because the fact that capital comes and comes into our direction is approved by all countries. Perhaps we are not unsuccessful in this respect, the Central-Eastern European region and thus Hungary, when we have to demonstrate our ability to attract capital. But if we look at the most important factor in production, the movement of labour, then the situation is very controversial. We are talking about the European Union's achievement, a core value when the free movement of labour is guaranteed by the values of the community. [[10.20]] There are many kinds of labour that temporarily do not find their potential within our borders. There is another type of movement in, say, the area of Sopron - I point to my fellow Member, Mátyás Firtl - who leave the country and take up employment in Burgenland, Steiermark and I do not know where work is, that the opportunity is given to them: on weekends they are back in the country or even commuting daily. In my area, in Baranya - Baranya is an area that is not the most prosperous area of the country - a temporary departure from the country with a very large number of people going to seasonal work from my own narrow environment, say, Germany or Austria. These are mostly farm-like jobs. And, of course, there are - and there are likely to be more and more - those who leave the country more permanently, even for years, and take up work abroad. Some of them are forced to do so. I know you're under duress because you can't find a temporary way to live here, or you're in a life situation where you're successful in breaking out of a life situation, or you're more successful if you get more income on a temporary scale. Let's be clear: they're foreign exchange credentials. There are many of them, among them the most viable, who can use their labour force temporarily abroad, so that they can earn additional income from the trap they have been caught - let me not say who lashed them - they can break out. And there is, of course, and there will always be a part of this workforce who, because of its skills, because of its very large language skills, simply seeks additional opportunities by virtue of its expertise. A part of the workforce also feels that in Germany, Lisbon, the Baltic, it can go any way it can, because it is qualified to enforce its own knowledge there. There's nothing wrong with these people. These people are looking forward to it because they don't wear out the social institutions. The British have no problem with this type of workforce. Let us see, then, that this is a very differentiated picture that we should look at here in some way. Again, because of my position in Baranya: we always knew there, along the border, even talking about the non-free world, that when we were living obstinately... - I, too, would not be able to leave this country; and here I am not talking about patriotic zeal, but about my own bonds, the way we were raised, the way we lived, you don't even want to go into a rental, but you stick to your own. The citizens of other countries did not socialize in this way. We also have a problem with going to more prosperous areas within the country and looking for jobs, let alone doing so abroad. I asked whether it was worth it that the Hungarian workforce was less mobile compared to other European countries. I am not sure that this is a value; in today's European or global economy environment, I am not sure that this is a value. There may have been some additional knowledge in the Polish workforce or in the former Yugoslav for which he was able to enforce - I say once again in the non-free world - his own knowledge was built in the happier half of Europe, and with this money transferred home - also mentioned my fellow Member Erik Bánki - this country. We looked up to the Yugoslavia at that time, along the southern border, because we saw that they were getting better than we did because they had such an additional knowledge or opportunity. This does not mean that a Hungarian government should obviously treat working abroad as a value. Because I think the perspective for everyone is to find his life opportunities here at 93,000 square kilometers. But let's finally say - and this is what bothers me most - that politics doesn't often say this here in Parliament - that when we judge these 200-300 thousand people, I don't know exactly how much they are, we can only talk about them with a great deal of energy, because these very valuable parts of the Hungarian workforce, who have knowledge and will to temporarily make a living abroad for themselves, and with their lives abroad and earning income abroad, they actually strengthen Hungarian consumption and the Hungarian economy through the help of the family's remaining part of the family. At the same time, it is obviously appropriate and necessary to do everything to curb this process, and sooner or later we will also find that we have a problem with other non-Hungarian citizens seeking life opportunities in Hungary. Will they ever wear out our social institutions? We must say that in this free European space, which emerged from the abolition of customs duties at some time and later from the Common Market - we can now talk about the fully single internal market - so, given these trends, if we look at the direction of migration and movement, we can simply say the basic truth that the labour force is always moving towards opportunities. Opportunities move and change in this European space. The Hungarian government, the Hungarian Prime Minister, has a strong vision. This is a successful vision of Central and Eastern Europe and within it is a Hungarian vision. In Hungary, we need to be able to create opportunities for people to thrive here, and temporary workers working abroad are encouraged to set up their lives here in the long term or in the medium term, because this is an emerging country, this is an emerging region, and they have every opportunity to do so. Of course, we can't do that by clicking a button or by making speeches. It is good to hear that when the socialist lead speaker visits national death, he only forgets that we knew this world before his few months of parliamentary existence, what is going on here, we knew the activities of socialist governments. We knew well how much this migration was embedded, which today is not directed towards us, but rather means moving away from us. It is our shared responsibility to create in Hungary the world that keeps our young people at home. The Hungarian government is working - with your support, I hope - to make this happen as soon as possible, so that these people can be sure that their life opportunities are only in this space, or that they have a lot of life opportunities in this space, because their identity, language, family and cemetery bind them here. The cemetery is tied, the community is bound, the common identity is bound, so I think that we can appreciate this migration issue in a realistic way, and if we do so, we will not only devote this day to our daily political goals, then perhaps we will move forward on this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Vona, Head of Group of the Jobbik Group. I'll give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader, please.
u2014-12-03-17	Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to express my joy that the debate day initiated by the Jobbik faction will finally take place. Although I also have to say that the fact that the governing parties did not support their signatures in order to bring this debate day to fruition is a bit of a waste in our joy. I understand that, though, because it was clear from your speeches so far that this was an unpleasant subject. [[L. Simon László: There is a coalition! Grumble in the benches of Jobbik.]] It is an unpleasant topic for them, because it is one of the most serious problems in the country, and they have a clear and clear responsibility in their role as governments - and in their second term in two-thirds majority. It can be any statistics, it can be any macro data, it can be any success propaganda, it can be a two-thirds majority of governments, it can be a new Fundamental Law, it can be a country where almost all the young middle class is on the run or is about to flee, let us now say that such a country is an unlivable and unsuccessful country. The political set that exists and governs in such a country, and that, even if it has won at the level of the votes, has failed in spirit. Let us, of course, be fair - and I will be fair enough - to say that this is not just the responsibility of the current government, but also of the previous governments. So not only is the Fidesz government responsible for the problem of emigration, but also the previous socialist government of eight years, and of course, let us be fair that the problem itself is not only a Hungarian problem, it is not only a problem in Hungary, but also a problem in Eastern-Central Europe. [[10.30]] But let us also add that Hungary is in a worse position than the neighbouring countries in terms of its trends in Central and Eastern Europe. And the worst, honourable members of the Government, is that if, in such a situation, the representatives of the government have a government responsibility, they do not recognize the problem themselves; or they recognize it, but they try to smear it or pursue ostrich policy. When the numbers speak for themselves, and even the numbers don't speak anymore, they yell, they pretend that it's not really a problem. In fact, here we have heard a speech about an exchange student program, describing the problem as if it were an entirely natural thing to talk about, perhaps unnecessary. Of course, we should not be surprised if one of the Prime Minister's sentences was the low point in the list of statements, when the Prime Minister insisted on saying that this was merely an adventure; the exodus of young Hungarians and their migration abroad was merely an adventure wish. I don't know if the Prime Minister was led by blindness, cynicism, or a mixture of the two, by some kind of blind cynicism, but let's just say it was an outrageous sentence, and of course it was wrong. It is worth contacting these young people, and it is worth reading their letters. We will also offer this opportunity to the pro-government representatives, because we have asked many of these young people for such letters to find out what the desire for adventure, so to speak, has driven them abroad. Well, that's just social reasons, social-existence lack of prospects. Let's just say these young people, mostly young people, are actually social refugees. They left this country because they didn't see a perspective or a vision in front of you. They did not go out as babysitters, like learning a language for a few years after the change of regime, but many of them were driven by the intention of permanent establishment. Let's look at some numbers. There were various numbers here, although there were some, for example, KDNP's lead speaker who said to leave the numbers. This was already a manifestation of ostrich policy. Let's take KSH data as a basis; I say we should be careful with numbers and manage statistics at the appropriate level, but let's not hide from numbers, even if these numbers are painful. According to KSH data, 343 thousand people live abroad for more than a year. But it is safe to say that the reality is much worse, that this number is well over half a million, that there is no family who is not affected by this problem. I know it's subjective, and I don't want to bring up the numbers here, but in my public forums, I always ask people to raise their hands, who are affected by this problem, and believe me, almost everyone raises their hands. You'd better try it, too. If you feel that the numbers do not speak for themselves - you must be travelling around the country, holding residential forums - then ask your own sympathizers on this issue. And let me say one more subjective thing before the sequences continue. I'm sure the people here have experienced many times, but at least they've experienced the uplifting feeling of meeting their former classmates at, say, a high school reunion. How nice it is to be with those with whom you have spent your best years, your youth, reunited, asking each other how you are, as you are, what happened to you, how you stand, what your family, financial situation is, what we talk about, and having a good time. How good that feels! I would like to tell you that my generation cannot experience this feeling, because there is no way to organise a graduation meeting because the majority is abroad. Facebook is the best way to solve this, even if it seems unbelievable to L. Simon László. [[Noise. L. Simon László: Incredible!]] And let us also say that this problem also concerns strategic sectors, now continuing the numbers, because it seems that subjective evaluation is not going to move forward with regard to shaping the thinking of pro-government representatives. You can see that, because several pro-government representatives have referred to health in the figures so that health care is in an increasingly hopeless situation. Since 2007, 8,000 doctors, 2500 nurses and midwives have left Hungary. These numbers in reality - I can also say - are probably even higher. It already causes daily operational problems in Hungarian health care, I could say that in many cases Hungarian health care is almost all held together by the Holy Spirit and the workers with a sense of professionalism. According to Tarki's research, the destinations of short-term emigration are Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Netherlands, the Scandinavian States and the United States and Canada. It should also be said, in connection with this data, that emigrating from the targets of short-term emigration to Hungary and looking back to today's Hungary, even listening to the speeches of some of the pro-government Members here, can easily be a long-term stay. To tell you the truth, I do not want the Hungarians who have migrated, let us say, in the United Kingdom, to see this debate. I wouldn't project the speech of Tallai Secretary of State or the lead speaker of KDNP in London to these young people, because I wouldn't say that these were inviting speeches. These speeches have shown that the pro-government representatives simply refuse, do not want to deal with this problem in its proper place, bagatelize it, obviously because of their sense of responsibility or conscience. Data 2013: Hungary is ranked sixth on the UK tax bill list after Poland, Spain, Italy, India and Portugal, ahead of countries such as France or Ireland, and otherwise the entire Central and Eastern European region, except Poland. But let me say the most serious data, at least the most serious data in my opinion: according to the 2014 survey of Bridge Budapest, 48 percent of young people between the ages of 20 and 35 would permanently move from Hungary. So it is not just about wanting to work abroad, it is about moving away from Hungary permanently. According to this survey, half of the young Hungarians do not consider their own country, Hungary, to be their future home in the present circumstances. And let's add - and now I'm going to continue with a KSH data, and I see that you have an increasingly unpleasant set of data, a lot of people are very busy, but soon it's over - that 80 percent of emigrants are under 40. In particular, the percentage of graduates is 30 percent, while the national average is 18 percent. So you can see that one in three emigrants is a graduate. The country's intellectuals are also fleeing, not just the young. And even if we could measure - although I didn't read about this, unfortunately I couldn't find statistics - how many of the emigrating graduates or skilled workers and young Hungarians could find their jobs abroad, then this data might be even more alarming and even more shocking for us. But let's not just talk about these current numbers, but let's try to read some kind of vision or perspective from these numbers. We have mentioned several times in Hungary what is the hidden resource of this country. According to Jobbik, this country's hidden resource is hundreds of thousands of young people, we have to call them home, bring them home, and create a country that makes this call home possible. Let us look at the medium-term consequences of the current trends, in the light of the current figures. The first thing I'd like to start with is that the middle class will disappear. As a fundamental social policy goal, I think Fidesz, MSZP and Jobbik are the same as the need for a broad middle class. But right now, you're building a middle class based on the principle of loyalty. They are trying to push this process from the top down, they say that it can be part of the middle class, especially the upper middle class, who has a loyal relationship with the governing party; let's think about trade or land affairs. It's a top-running middle class-building philosophy. The Jobbik is quite different, I could say the exact opposite. We are thinking of a worthy middle class building, where, from the bottom down, we deserve to be part of the middle class and rise up in society on the basis of the principle of taking advantage of opportunities. I think it's just a philosophical difference, of course, but young people don't want to live in a country where political loyalty is the basis for those who can move forward and those who can't. This situation also has a critical effect on demography, and I may not have to say it, others have already talked about it. I would like to highlight one aspect that no one may have yet. Current demographic data is alarming, but I do not know of any research that would have taken out of the demographic predictions we used to talk about, young people who went abroad, up to 100%, whether 80% or 50% or 30%. So let's take out optimistic and pessimistic predictions or calculations and see what Hungary's demographic vision will be in the coming decades. Because, unfortunately, let's just say there is a likelihood that a significant part of these young people will not return home. And then what about social security, what about the pension system, what about the health system, what about the social system, who's gonna finance the education? These are questions, honourable Members, on which you have not been able to give an appropriate and reassuring answer. [[10.40]] And one more aspect that no one's mentioned, perhaps. Let's assume the optimistic version that all young people who have fled abroad today for existential social reasons can be lured home - suppose. Even if that happens, I'm convinced that this nation is suffering from psychological, psychological syndrome that can no longer be corrected. And I'm not just talking about individual psychological problems, that grandparents with their grandchildren or parents with their children online, on Facebook, Skype, but also in our collective psyche, I'm convinced that the current situation is causing very serious injuries. And it will be very difficult to build a society that has been torn apart by such a problem, and it will be very difficult to build national cohesion and national cohesion. For the family, housing is very important for families, it is very important to have a job, a tax reduction, and in this I recognise your efforts, your programme points, your suggestions, your laws. But the most important thing for a family is to have a family together, and in this, let's face it, we have not been able to make any progress, and neither have you, with two thirds of you. In terms of what to do, diagnosis is the first. We haven't gotten that far yet. So there are no agreed views even on the diagnosis. We need real jobs. Public work should not be attractive in employment policy. The community service programme is very important, it has its place, but we will not call home, lure young people home with a community service program. We need a Hungarian-owned production industry. The other: housing has been said a lot. Here, too, I recognise the steps taken by the government that are positive, but the solution to the foreign currency credit crisis, the market forintification that you have taken in the past few days, is also not an impact on the direction of calling home and drawing home. And there's one more important thing I'd like to talk about for the rest of the minute and a half. During the transition period - we hope to bring these people home, in the transitional period - identity must be strengthened. Let's learn from the American example, unfortunately, the current generations in America are losing their identity. I mean, we need a continuous communication between the people who are here and those who have fled there. On the government's side, we don't need such uneven and often insulting messages, we need positive messages; we need to help build a community and build a culture to preserve their identity, and when the situation comes, these people, these hundreds of thousands of people, come home. For example, one of the important things to do is - on which we have already agreed on the MÁÉRT, by the way, thank God, we are here, political parties - to help these people vote, to make it easier for them to participate in the election, whether by letter or on the Internet, to take concrete steps in this Parliament, that is to say, in 2018, or at any time, as soon as possible, these young people can express their political opinions, because they have, believe me. I know you may be afraid of this, but you have a political opinion, let us give them the opportunity to become a part of the country, to feel that it belongs here, that we expect them, that we trust them, that they are our hidden resources, and then we have a chance that Hungary will finally be able to get these people back home. If we don't, if we don't, if we do ostrich policy, we won't get a chance to do that. In this, I ask you to reconsider your position. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-03-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A lot of our lords had no rest, no knackers, no property against us, and we moved to America / one and a half million of our men,' wrote Attila József. Today, the question is whether Hungary will be a country without grandchildren, where the relationship between generations is exhausted in a Skype relationship. The horror of this is threatening Hungary today. On 6 April this year, it was clear among voters at foreign representations that the governing parties were deeply below the national average. This is a clear sign that these people are angry with the government that they had to leave the country. This, of course, also involves responsibility for opposition parties. It's not just the Fidesz' fault, obviously, that the exodus has accelerated, but, yes, many have had enough. They were hoping to get better after the fake left, but they got hit hard. In fact, for eight years, Fidesz deceived people, young people, and therefore the disappointment was much greater. They voted for an anti-teaching party in 2010 and received tuition fees; instead of a job, public work, legal certainty, and a social system were destroyed. People lost all hope and decided to emigration. Our job is to restore hope. Almost 400,000 people have wandered. That means L. Simon Lászlón [[L. Simon talks with his fellow State Secretary László.]] and there is no one in the country who is not directly affected by the problem, apart from fellow Members. This is already a country without grandchildren, a country without children, a country without friends for many. [[To L. Simon László's fellow Members: I have four children. How many does he have?]] Today, if a young person has a good idea, if he wants to fulfill his creative ability, if he wants to start a business, then the sad situation is that he starts with better chances in Berlin or London. The situation in Hungary is already such that it does not count as a home career, the benefits have been well overgrown by disadvantages for many young people. We want a country worth returning to. We want a country to return to, a liveable, renewable Hungary. Orbán admitted indirectly to our recent question on emigration that he did not try to keep young people and families with small children who are trying to leave the country abroad because of hopelessness. He replied to my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, that the right to go abroad if they want to, and how much money they are sending home, cannot be taken away from people. Now, that's the cynicism that drives a lot of people out of this country. Let's look at the facts. According to KSH research, 350 thousand Hungarians live abroad. This is a data from the beginning of 2013, and the situation has deteriorated since then. This is the indicator by which you, among other things, cosmetics employment data. It is also worth mentioning that most of those who have left abroad belong to young people, 25 percent of whom are under the age of 30, 63 percent have not reached the age of 40. It is also worth talking about the fact that the emigrants are mostly young, about 30 years old, only 10 percent of them can give a definite date or about an interval when they would come home; 25 percent would not come home at all. Hungary's population-preservation power is deteriorating dramatically. According to the research carried out by Tárki, one in five Hungarians plans to settle abroad. Half the 18-29-year-olds want to move abroad. Based on the study of the GVI in 2012, the intention to migrate abroad increased two and a half times from 2010 to the second half of 2012. According to the German statistical office, between 2010 and 12 more than 70 thousand Hungarians have settled in German territory since 2008. London is today the fifth largest Hungarian city. KSH also showed that 1 percent of the domestic population left the country in 2005 to live abroad for longer or shorter periods, by 2012, this figure became 2 percent, i.e. above 180,000 people. With regard to the number of Hungarians living in Britain, the government recognises that only 100 to 200 thousand people can be involved. According to KSH experts, 7-8 percent of Hungarians in their childhood live abroad. This ratio was only 1-2 percent 10 years ago, so the growth is dramatic. Please don't argue the facts. According to a survey of Hungarians living in London, 38 percent do not intend to move home at all, and 35 percent would not come home in the next five years. The line can continue, for example, by 70 percent of those surveyed among high school students saying that they imagine working abroad, and 25 percent of them - I am talking about high school students - would stay permanently abroad. Now, that's the drama. Let's see what this situation has to do with us. I've had a lot of talk before about national economic consequences. I think it is worth looking at the social impact. CHAPTER XX In the century, the various tragedies destroyed the fabric of Hungarian society, and there should be no illusion, emigration is destroying the fabric of a society. Those who leave here miss them personally, miss classmates, miss friends, neighbors, but miss the people who create Hungarian culture together with us, and continue to weave Hungarian traditions. It's a disintegrating social fabric. And the really tragic thing is that when you talk to these people who are wandering out of here, you get the answer a lot of the time, you get a back question about what's keeping you here. The real tragedy, yes, is that living here, you must die, for some reason, his command does not affect many people in Hungary anymore. [[10.50]] In addition to the already severe population loss, the emigration process is so high that if current trends continue, within a few generations, we will hardly be seven million. If this continues, Hungary will indeed be a country without grandchildren. Two thirds of emigrants are 25-44 years old, and they are also the most important age groups in terms of employment and family formation. They're driven away by government politics. Five to six percent of them already live abroad and are less likely to move home. We also need to talk about the fact that, unfortunately, there are a large number of villages in Hungary that are in agony. There's 80 percent unemployment in these places. The government is only able to offer public service, and the greatest emigration is from these places, these areas that are doomed to death. One of the fundamental consequences of emigration is the unsustainableness of pension systems and public services. Low employment, low legal taxes, low social contributions, is a dark future for those who stay home in 10-20-30 years. And, of course, it is worth looking at the national economic impact. This means that, according to some calculations, if we count 500 000 employees out of work, it would amount to hundreds of billions of forints per year in the form of taxes and consumption in GDP. A minimum wage would also generate tax and contribution revenue of HUF 31 billion per month for half a million employees, which is HUF 370 billion per year, which is 1.4 percent of GDP. The expertise, the young people, the money also leaves Hungary, which remains, in many cases the grey lack of hope. Not only young graduates, but a third of parents consider it possible to study abroad and nearly half consider it possible to work abroad for their children. Due to the changing labour market challenges, more and more families are considering the issue of further education and employment outside Hungary. Yes, Secretary of State, the real drama is that today there are more and more parents who are not Fidesz patrons, who are giving their child a vision to leave this country as soon as possible. The other tragedy is that in recent years it has grown stronger throughout Eastern Central Europe - and here we are not comforted by the Latvian, Lithuanian or Bulgarian analogy - and in Hungary, too, the brain drain, so that the core countries also suck spiritual resources out of the so-called periphery countries. Special attention should also be paid to the fact that the result of this process is that the shortage of doctors and nurses in Hungary is currently becoming critical, i.e. the crisis in health employment. It is worth paying attention to the fact that 60 percent of the very low professional deficiency level is reduced by 2023, and simply the health system alone will be unsustainable in ten years. Among the general causes of emigration is hopelessness, there is the fact that a country that hates its own recent past, the last hundred years, is not at peace with itself, is becoming less and less able to maintain. And, of course, among the general reasons, there is that a country where a new feudal system is being built, where political loyalty is the only way for many, the only way to achieve it, and otherwise public work and assembly is to have a perspective, well, such a country will be less inviting to the growing generations that are otherwise open to the world. A country where competence doesn't matter, young people don't think that their creative skills can be fulfilled here. And let us also be aware that disintegration has a multiplicative effect: young people who see that in their environment many have migrated, for themselves too - even those who have not done so before - consider emigration to be the number one strategy. Among the reasons, of course, there are so-called sectoral reasons. What I am thinking about here is that the economic development path that Hungary was on after the change of regime has failed, and it has become clear that, with this catch-up strategy, the Hungarian wages will never reach the EU average. It is simply that a country that spends little on training, research and development, which tries to grow from public work and assembly, will not increase wages there. Today, the unemployment rate of young people in Hungary is 5 percent higher than the EU average, while the employment rate of young people with primary education is one quarter of the EU average. The proportion of early school leavers in Hungary is 12 percent, while commitments suggest that this should be reduced to less than 10 percent throughout the EU by 2020. Among the sectoral reasons, there is also the fact that the fate of the Hungarian countryside was decided for decades when, in the first years of the regime change, large investments were called exclusively to certain areas. And yes, among the reasons for the emigration there is the housing crisis, which is also a quarter-century debt, one of the big debts of the system-changer elite, as the community rental stock in Hungary remains quite minimal. And, of course, among the sectoral reasons, there is the foreign currency crisis itself. When we draw up the exits, we need to give answers at the same time about what we want to do in the field of education and training, because we want to keep young people in Hungary, we need to talk about how we want to increase public funds for higher education and public education, we need to talk about how we want to preserve the higher education institutions in rural areas, we need to talk about how we do want to abolish the tuition and we want to make sure that every fourth young person in Hungary has a diploma as soon as possible. And the key question is what hope we give young people who want to do business. In the field of innovation, universities must play a fundamental role in strengthening students' entrepreneurial and creative attitudes. Young people wishing to enter into a business should be supported by a separate state aid programme. Among the solutions are the need to improve the housing sector, there is a programme for the establishment of a community housing agency, which was included in the LMP election programme. Dear Parliament, At a time when we are talking about exits, we also need to talk about the fact that it is not true that real wage increases undermine the competitiveness of a country. On the contrary! In a country like Hungary, where in many cases real wages have been artificially cut in the last quarter of a century, Zoltán Pogátsa is right to say that the real wage increase does not damage competitiveness but improve. The LMP has now made proposals for wage development in several sectors in the budgetary debate, such as health care, the social sphere, teachers. Finally, we also need to talk about what we can do to ensure that young people who want to be creative in Hungary stay here. In addition to state aid, predictability is most needed, a predictable legislative environment and an anti-corruption package that can effectively eliminate the system of fiefs that is now being built. And, of course, what the previous speaker has already said is that it is necessary to ensure that young people who have fled abroad, who have left Hungary, have the same political choice as those who usually have Hungarian citizens across the border, that they should have equal opportunities for young people who have migrated abroad to live with their right to vote as those who otherwise do not have permanent residence in Hungary. The poor are terrified of the rich and the rich are afraid of the poor. / Funny fear administers / us and is not a false hope." wrote Attila József at the time. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The way out is to break feudal relations, to process the past open to each other's stories of suffering, which can mean a way out, which can mean that instead of a country with no hope, without grandchildren, instead of a country of assembly, the emigration of young people will come back to a liveable, renewable Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent representatives to make themselves known in writing will now take part. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Fodor. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-21	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Party, to express my position on today's debate on emigration. Well, let me begin by saying that János Harghitai, the speaker of the Christian Democrats, has started his speech by saying that perhaps this day is also based on a choreography in which the opposition is speaking its criticisms, the government speaks its own position, we speak side by side, it doesn't make any sense. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] os, let me say not only to Mr Harghitai, but let me also draw the attention of the present State Secretarys on behalf of the Government, that the debate day makes sense and that there could actually be a consensus between the thoughts that are said. [[11.00]] I, as I silenced the speakers, can see that we are thinking the same in many elements. And if our approach to democracy were similar, then we could find a common basis for developing some kind of real strategy on this very serious problem, the solution to this very serious problem. In my view, the system of national cooperation does not mean that by two thirds the Fidesz will decide on issues to which society does not want to contribute, and in essence we make it appear that there is some kind of conciliation, but, for example, that there should be political consensus on such issues. This is very important. By the way, the debate day makes sense, I think, and it is a good thing that a debate day has been initiated, and it must be acknowledged from Jobbik that I think he has done the right thing by initiating a debate day. I do this as a liberal, even though I know that we have a very different view of democracy, a market economy, a rule of law, fundamental human rights or the Atlantic values, but it is right that we are talking about such issues. Well, going on, do we, in our opinion, liberals, have the main problem with this issue? I would stress that I think that if someone listened to me on this day of debate, they would perceive that the views on the essential issues are very similar, the position expressed by the speakers. And I also think that it is a good thing, and I think it is an important and positive development, that, in essence, everyone has said that this is actually a joint matter, a joint matter for the whole country, for the whole nation, and that responsibility cannot simply be pinned on a government. Just as the current government has a serious responsibility, but it cannot in itself be held responsible for what is happening, either, because it is a much longer process, and essentially every political force has its own responsibility in this story in its own way, that we are here. Now, what would be the number one priority in this case if we were to be clear? First of all, the assessment of the problem itself. Each speaker talked about the fact that we're actually in the dark. We know there's something, there's some surveys, we're talking about numbers, about half a million, but there's no real problem assessment. Why can't the government do anything about this? Why don't you start an accurate, precise survey on this? Or if they do, why don't they dare disclose the data? Why don't we know exactly what we're talking about? Why are there only estimates? Why are only a few institutions trying to give us some kind of data based on different questions based on different surveys and research, which we all refer to? I'll refer to such data, too, but it's the government's job to assess fairly what we're really talking about. That's what I think is the number one thing to do. On the other hand, in addition to saying the common responsibility; as I have said, of course, the special responsibility of the current government must also be stated, and this must be faced with the current governing parties, especially because I believe that the two-thirds majority of them make responsibility greater on their shoulders. What is the responsibility of the current government? It is an important responsibility that the poor have become even poorer over the past period, and they have basically reduced employment opportunities to the masses of public workers in Hungary. It is an important responsibility that people can expect from the state a baksis, an opportunity to undertake or stay on their feet in this country, not from the market and not from freedom and not from equal treatment, but from good relations with the governing party, and this does not inspire people to try to do something here on the Hungarian labour market. And last but not least, they do not feel that the norms of the rule of law apply in Hungary in an appropriate way. As many people have referred to it, it is essentially what is happening in Hungary, a mistake. The reference to a work-based society is a misdirection of Fidesz, because we liberals say that a knowledge-based society must be created in Hungary, rather than going in the direction that is an important part of Eastern opening, to list Asian countries as examples and to think that Hungary should truly become a country of assembly plants. No, you have to see that we're not going to be competitive in this. It is also important, of course, not an incidental issue, that there are jobs of this type in Hungary, but this cannot be a strategic direction for Hungary, it can only be a knowledge-based society, and in fact today's government is fighting against the building of a knowledge-based society. It proclaims a fight because we see that it does not place such emphasis on education, it does not develop higher education in substance, on the contrary, the news of recent weeks is that they want to close it even more, they want to make higher education more elite in Hungary, even though mass higher education has a future. All knowledge-based societies should be built on this. It is what happens to contrast vocational training and high school training, it is a complete mistake. In a knowledge-based society, it is important to know that, say, in Germany, who is often referred to as an example, even in the rhetoric of the governing parties, the German industry is involved in the production of all German products by about 20 percent, and about 70 percent of the total German product is made up of services, and it is good to face this. And the German industry is in a very different situation than Hungary can expect and the Hungarian perspective can be. So it's a total mistake that the governing parties are doing anyway, for example by proclaiming the so-called work-based society that has never been defined, but is completely misguided. On the other hand, we need a knowledge-based society, and if that is the case, people will want to stay here. Of course, it is okay for people to go to work, to study, to see the world as our ancestors used to say. That's okay. The problem is if they don't want to come back, if they run. Today, ladies and gentlemen, surveys show, among other things, that 55 percent of the Hungarians surveyed want to live abroad. So the reason for emigration is not that he's looking for adventure, that he wants to learn, that he wants to train himself a little and come back, but 55 percent want to live his life abroad. That's the problem. So it's not that they're leaving, it's not that they're bringing knowledge home. The problem is that they do not want to live in this country, because there is no job, there is public work, there is no education, there is no perspective, there is no learning opportunity, our higher education institutions are not of such quality, and last but not least there are conditions in today's Hungarian society where my brother relations prevail. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This requires urgent and radical change, and this should be achieved by consensus. Now let the ruling parties sit down, settle the opposition parties, try to make a case where political consensus can be established. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-03-22	Welcome, fellow Members. Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, as announced in writing by the factions. That is why I give the floor to Housekeeper Mátrai Márta.
u2014-12-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The debate today is at least as timely as when thousands of young men left the country before World War I, and when they needed this natural force, the country was defenceless, the Hungarian nation was defenseless. We believe that this situation needs to be discussed. However, it is necessary to put aside the hypocritical false voices, the empty reproaches that annoy the government, the unnecessary ideological struggle. It is necessary to look for aspects that, in view of which material or moral considerations are not in spite of one another, but in the interest of the common interest. The common interest here is the protection of our own future, the survival of Hungarians, so it is necessary to talk about this with the utmost honesty. With a little historical insight, it is easy to understand that leaving and working abroad cannot be attributed to a single government alone, because this accession to the European Union has, strangely, created favourable conditions, precisely through the freedoms it receives. Freedom of employment, freedom of establishment, interoperability of borders, equality of civil rights have opened up the space on European scale for citizens' migration as well as for working abroad. However, the reasons for this migration are not mysterious. Today, a high school student can list the truly popular reasons for his desire. However, there are reasons that can be attributed to the current management within the country, and there are reasons that the country cannot solve on its own. There is little we can do against the fact that there are European countries that simply do not constitute a sufficient number of professionals in certain fields of expertise, they simply cannot sacrifice to this end, but attract the skilled and very well-trained workforce of disadvantaged countries. [[11.10]] In some respects, we are also helping this process, because compulsory high language training for qualifications facilitates emigration. Of course, this does not mean that the aim is to silly language training, but we must at least see that all the conditions for emigration and departure are now in place. It also does not help to stay home because the press working on the weakening of the civilian government is almost enjoyable to report on the leavers. Leaving is just a good and lucky fact or an adventure, forgetting the parents, friends, loving families left behind, forgetting the instructors, the masters and all those who are important in life. [[István Tukacs: The press is to blame!]] Even if they do not know, they have a grudge against them so that grandparents cannot see their grandchildren, so that the elderly parents remain unsupported, and only the computer conversation remains for them, as we have just heard. Such journalists will erase from their memory the immortal lines of Endre Ady's:. Up and down stone, falling on your land, / My little country, again and again / Your son will come home. It is almost impossible for such scribes to assume all the troubles of the country's operation on behalf of the community of fate. It is a big question of what a life situation is like when the idea of leaving has to be made, and as an outsider, we do not know that. However, many leave the homeland without reason because of the promise of prosperity, sometimes false choice of value, or lack of attachment. Just as there is a lack of patience and understanding of each other in social association today, there is a lack of understanding and patience on the part of those who leave the country. A country devastated, looted in war, and then impoverished by communism, cannot immediately give these promises of paradise, as the economic achievements of the welfare states before the crisis elsewhere. In recent years, the civilian government has not missed an apology of the alarming situation, as advocates of the political debate object, but has not found any partners in the field of politics. We can remember that in the last cycle, the Hungarian government has attempted to keep graduates at least for the training period, but the groups of Members who signed the debate protested with great noise against such a nugget. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we should have joined together in order to find a decent solution and not take advantage of the sad situation created by increasing emigration. Especially if we know that 50 percent of those leaving are highly qualified graduates or master of their profession. For some, all means of political gain seem to be capable of weakening the civilian government, even if this government protects the Hungarian future. The worse the better, the better, they think, and when, as a result of their involvement, the problem is here, knocking on the window, then comes the false lamentation of what should have been done. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see that this doesn't work. Words become meaningless, just like inflationary money, something that can always be paid, but they don't pay anything for it anymore. It is a good and supportive effort to discuss the causes of migration, but I have never heard any opposition fellow Members argue publicly that nice young people, however difficult it is, must stay at home. Sometimes I think that the question of fate is also used as political advertising rather than as a necessary starting point and solution to a common thinking. We, those staying at home, without debate know that we have strong obligations to the Hungarian national community. However, you can come up with the empty sigh to pay as much as is normal in Europe, and then the movers will stay home. But that is impossible today, and you know it as well as anyone else, because we cannot make enough public wage increases to compete with the financial opportunities of the developed states in terms of financial needs. The same basically applies to the competition sector. If we rule out state pressure, it remains an honest interpretation of incentive, support, and patriotism in our toolbox when arguing against departure. We have taken several steps, but we still have a lot of work to do, but at the same time we have remarkable arguments to make here and now. I believe that no one can argue that the civilian government views migration in a fundamentally different way than the governments before it, because it is possible to go away instead of the process of staying at home, come home and look at all its citizens on the basis of the principle. Hungary is at the door of a new development phase, and if they stay home and support it, they can be part of the results. The civilian government has set the right course within the framework of the national R &amp; D and innovation strategy by creating a new generation of innovations, which will create opportunities, to keep thousands of researchers and creative professionals in the country. We would like to facilitate the situation of young people, the establishment of a family, support home creation and the acquisition of useful skills; this is an alternative for those who leave. Fate communities can be assumed by those who see Hungary not only as a paying place, who, if the quality of care is reduced, simply migrate to other areas. However, some people find it difficult to say that Hungary is our country, with all capitals, we are bound here by our memories, joys, sorrows, we are committed to our history, our losses, our mistakes, our language, our culture, the future of our young people and the integrity of old age. We can't say we're shriveled by the fact that we have something to do with this. No one thinks that there is no bitterness in our hearts because of all our departed citizens who have left the country, but it is a giddy miracle doctor who is spreading that he can offer easy, simple solutions to eliminate this phenomenon. However, we also have a word for those leaving. If they are forced to leave because of their difficult fate, Hungary is very sorry that they cannot keep them at home, but never forget that the country expects everyone back, the homeland of all its children, where they will not be seen as aliens, countryless and cometmen. And if fate so brings it, return, pick up the thread of the past, visit their old companions, visit their friends, and add a brick girl with experience to the construction of Hungary of the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-24	I now give the floor to Vice President István Hiller.
u2014-12-03-25	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, The subject that we are talking about is, in our view, one of the most decisive issues, but, at the same time, if we only consider it as a problem, if we are talking only about the reasons, then nothing else will happen for four hours, in a time frame, opponents and pro-governments conflict with their views, without presenting a solution. I think that we need to go beyond that, even if there are different options. In the last hour and a half, I have heard from various parties an opinion that is worth summing up for the government and that is incorporated into its own policy. To get to the details, I would like to talk about intellectual emigration, especially the young intellectual emigration. [[L. Simon László to Dr. Andras Schiffer: Don't insult me!]] However, before I talk about the components of this, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the processing published by the Central Statistical Office, i.e. the Hungarian Statistical Office, on 15 October 2014, records at the beginning that everything you say will record the end of 2012 data at the beginning of 2013. [[L. Simon László to Dr. Andras Schiffer: Don't insult me! Don't mess with me. You don't have children!]] At the same time, it is worth considering the last year, not for 365 days, but for trends. [[L. Simon László to Dr. Andras Schiffer: I have a family, four children!]] [[11.20]] In recent months, the Dutch Statistical Office [[L. Simon László to Dr. Andras Schiffer: If you have four children, you can explain.]] , previously published by the German Statistical Office, the reports and figures which are crucial for Hungary as well. The report of the German Statistical Office for 2013, the Statistische BundesamtZweitausenddreizehn, states that on 31 December 2013, 135 614 Hungarian citizens lived in Germany, which is an increase of 107 398 - 28 percent compared to 31 December 2012. Similar data are reported by countries that do not affect Hungarian emigrants to this extent, but the situation in Britain, the Netherlands mentioned above, is very similar. Within this circle there is a very significant percentage that is particularly young, which means that the emigration of Hungarian citizens between 19 and 25 years of age, whose main part goes to the West to study and work to cover their educational costs. I am also offering the honourable representatives of the governing party a joint reflection that makes it clear that it is only worth thinking on educational matters in arches and in the long term. Education is not a stock exchange. It is not that we make the bet at ten o'clock in the morning, and at 10:30 we know that we won or failed, but that investment in education does have an impact beyond the Hungarian electoral cycles. I therefore draw attention to the fact that all that has happened in Hungary's higher education in the last roughly half of a decade is the uncertainty, the constant change of concepts for four years... - in four years, the fourth Secretary of State of Higher Education will express his opinions. Just a year ago, the recent concept of higher education was not accepted by the government, and the current concept, which is marked by the name of Secretary of State Palkovics, has not yet been adopted. In the 2015 budget, the state support of Hungarian higher education institutions is still 25 percent lower than in 2010. The bonding to the clot announced a few years ago and then the uncertainty created further increased the number of those who thought they wanted to enter the intellectual career, but do not wish to continue their higher education studies in Hungary. Similarly, attention should be drawn to areas where the emigration of intellectuals is the most important. The health problem has been mentioned several times, certain engineering careers. It is not comforting that this is not an outstanding problem in Hungary in all areas of intellectual careers in general, because in areas where it means it has a decisive and negative impact on society as a whole. I would like to ask you with respect to the fact that everything that has been openly undertaken in the field of education... - for example, it has never been openly undertaken, but we admit that the professional content behind political statements is nothing more than the continuous and accelerating reduction and reduction of publicly funded high school seats, which, by definition, offers fewer diplomatic opportunities; the unpredictability, uncertainty in higher education, the non-acceptance, advertising of concepts, but the failure without political support for young people who wish to be able to become intellectuals, for more and more of them it is emigration that is unfortunately decisive. At the same time, it is important to say that it is important for someone to gain experience in a foreign university, institution or research group for years, and then to bring this experience home and apply it at home, this is an important and common goal. In this it is foolish to discriminate pro-government and opposition. If, in the long term, we are able to remedy, even more precisely, this concept, then there must and must be a policy which is a continuus which can agree on fundamental issues. However, this requires stability in education policy and an agreed and eligible concept in higher education to halt intellectual emigration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-03-26	I now give the floor to Congressman László Földi, of the benches of KDNP.
u2014-12-03-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very right that the Parliament will hold a debate on the extremely complex problem of emigration and its possibilities. [[Why didn't you sign it?]] This is a current, important topic that concerns members of the Fidesz-KDNP and the government. We are aware of the seriousness of the situation and of the responsibility that two thirds of a year have given us. It is not a matter of jumping aside from a sensible debate or a conflict in the interests of the nation, just as it is not possible to accuse us of not having strong ideas, concrete proposals on all matters that fundamentally affect the fate of the country. Not even because the result of three elections this year has proved that the opposition is the problem and the government side is the solution. However, this day of debate will only be more if its starting point is not an assumption and not an appearance, but a reality based on facts. Collapsing arguments will only bring practical benefits if its aim is not the need for mood swing, blame, scapegoat search, political gain, but the need for a rational mapping and joint solution of a complex problem to pair parties and not to separate parties. Ladies and gentlemen, That's why I think it's important to say not only the real thing, but also the truth. The building of our arguments and solutions should not be built on the quagmire of assumptions and emotions, but on the rock of numbers and facts. There is no forum from Internet chats to bar, family and workplace conversations to the debate in the legislative process where you would not hear everyone leaving Hungary, yes, everyone. I also hear and read that a narrow, loud minority shouts at every home that there is no hope, that Hungary must be hated, and that anyone leaving here is actually an economic and even political exile of the Orbán government. Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, we are talking about a problem where neither the European Union nor any competent organisation in any Member State has too much credible data. No one or opposition representatives can say exactly how many people, since, since, when, how and how long they live and work in a foreign country. We have estimates that make it very difficult to develop solutions strategies. Ladies and gentlemen, As you know, it is not true that people have only left the country since 2010. Departure has been ongoing since 1989, either party has been in government. This phenomenon is more related to the changes in the Eastern European bloc and the accession of the countries of the region to the EU than to the performance of individual governments. Of course, it means a lot that since 2010, the country has a prime minister who doesn't say that you can leave here if you don't like something, but you can come back and come back. [[Dr. András Schiffer: He's happy to see you leave because they're sending the money home.]] If everyone, even those who travel for a few months, is included, around 450 thousand Hungarians have worked or worked abroad since the change of regime. [[11.30]] Thus, it seems to be a lot, but previous speakers have already mentioned that it is 2-2,4 percent of the Hungarian workforce, but at the same time it is much higher in Eastern Central Europe, whether in Romania or in other areas. You can't even say that they're all economic, sire, political refugees. According to statistics, most of them are well-trained people who have had or could have worked at home, but they have made the decision to take a foreign job that is much lower than their qualifications, but pays better than they do at home. We can't say they never want to come back. It may not be true that they are all revolutionaries of a great anti-government rebellion fighting with their feet. This homogeneous, simplistic opinion is also offensive to them, who are just as diverse as the ones left at home. According to statistics, 90 percent of them go to a nearby European country with the intention to return home in any case within a year or two to make use of the material and intellectual property acquired there. Most of them contribute to increasing Hungarian consumption even during their stay out by sending some of their demand home. This is not exactly the attitude of an emigrant who hates his country, who will forever turn his back on it, seeking a government-changing coup, even though many would like to see it this way. It is also not true that everyone who says so is leaving. It is an interesting fact that, according to the European Commission's migration rates and the relevant surveys, Hungary is the country where much more people are saying that they would migrate than the number of people seriously think and do. This is a public feeling, for which, however, it has been only five years, and on the basis of an historic mandate, the ruling party cannot be held responsible for all the cumulative events of the political change since 25 years and the global economic crisis. Well, it is a political narrow-mindedness and a similar chimbrandt of cynicism, like scaring the Hungarians with 23 million Romanians at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP Party Association and the Government support Hungarian students and employees to gain foreign experience and then return home and use it at home for their own, family and country's benefit. It is not the emigration that must be stopped, but the way to make emigration trendy. Despite all the opposite rhetoric, the distortion based on anger and party interests, which ignores the numbers, this has not yet happened. Departure is a real problem, not small, but it is certain that generalization and simplification will not solve it. A stable economic environment is one of the basic conditions of the solution. Hungary has measurable, indisputable results. Growth is on the move, public debt is falling, deficits are kept at a level, inflation is virtually absent, people's wages and taxes are falling. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: In which country?]] In the next seven years, 60 percent of the total EU funding of HUF 7400 billion will be spent on economic recovery. The fight against emigration involves launching a Youth Guarantee Programme, supporting the employment of young entrepreneurs and disadvantaged people, adapting the higher education and vocational training systems to the labour market requirement. That is why we want production plants and full employment, instead of aid, work for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Living well in a country is not just a matter of numbers. I also read the reports on the Internet, and I see that many of the emigrants complain primarily about the public mood at home, the failure of the regime change, rather than the lack of work or decent pay. Of course, but when they dig deep into their souls and express the real reason for their departure, we hear that they have had enough of the petty, selfish debates of Hungarian public life, and from the rumors of the Hungarian public that lie in the public interest, but actually serve self-interest, not since 2010, but since 1989. I trust that those who listen to this debate and do not live in the motherland now will not have to be disappointed. I also hope that in the coming years the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association and government will not depend on their fate, their future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-28	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas.
u2014-12-03-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr László Földi concluded that he was confident that those who followed the mediation would look forward to the future on the basis of your speech. Well, if I were you, I'd rather hope that these young people abroad don't watch the broadcast, because at the level of you being disoriented from reality, I think it's rather disappointing, and I would like to point that out in my speech. At the same time, as the initiator of the debate, I must also say that several of you here have referred to how pleased you are that this is an issue that can be debated and spoken at all in this House. Well, you could have done that by signing our debate day initiative. You didn't do this, and I contacted you, and I announced this initiative on the House Committee, and I said in my speech before the agenda, and you also had the signature collection sheet. You didn't do this, so I ask you to nuance this statement a little here, or, if you really think so, to exercise at least a little self-criticism as to why you didn't sign this initiative. My fellow Member from Harghita raised the point of the debate as to what is the point of this debate today. I also think that we need to find some common points, some groundwork that will allow us to start, and that is when today's debate will really make sense. What basic thesis do I have in mind? One: it is very important that we finally state that there is a problem and that the problem is serious. I believe that the opposition parties or the majority of TV viewers do not dispute this, but in your previous comments and in your previous comments, when we discussed this in Parliament, it has always been debatable whether you acknowledge the fact of this debate at all. We have referred to it, we have heard explanations here that it is an adventure wish, or we have heard of one who spoke about the exchange student programmes in connection with the emigration, and about Hungarian youth leaving abroad for six months and staying there for a year. That's not the issue this debate is about, is it? We are talking about those who go abroad, not voluntarily, but out of compulsion, unfortunately because of economic pressure, because of their social situation, and the truth is that the majority of immigrants belong to this category. I would just like to remind you of the survey by the KSH that 84 percent of Hungarians abroad went abroad to work and went to that country. So this is not the problem - and it is not a problem, somewhere joyful - when someone spends six months or a year of education in another country and comes home, learning a language. We have also heard - and this is also part of the fundamental thesis, which you deny exists and this is a serious problem - that it is impossible to say exactly how many people have gone, although we have heard contradictions in this too. Someone here referred to specific KSH data, and then the next pro-government Member began his speech by saying that it was not a problem because we do not know the exact number. However, this is a serious problem, and even though we do not know the exact number, because it is a phenomenon that cannot be described by precise numbers, this is another very serious situation. They also defended the fact that in other countries it is even greater than in our countries, in other countries it is greater. The truth is, I will tell you honestly that this statistics - if that is true - do not interest me as long as there is a young person in Hungary who has gone abroad because of the operation and activity of you and the previous governments. Just because this phenomenon exists in other countries does not mean that we do not have to deal with it. Yes, we also have young people who have been forced abroad because of your specific activities, your activities over the past four and a half years and the activities of the government before 2010. In this sense, it cannot be counterproductive that this phenomenon exists in other countries, and we must resolve it regardless. The first fundamental thesis, which I would like you to acknowledge, is that there is a problem and there is a serious problem. [[11.40]] The second is the practice of self-criticism. There have been some steps under your governance - and once again, this is true of governance before 2010 - that have led young people to think more about it or even to act actively in order to go to other countries. Neither can you seriously believe that, for example, the processes in education did not encourage young people to go to other countries to study. I actually have an acquaintance who made you apply to a foreign university when you wanted to introduce your tuition fee in the winter of 2011 and then retreated under social pressure. But he said that if it worked this way, that he had been planning something for several years, that he had been determined to go to a certain degree for several years, and then, two months before the application deadline, they would figure out that he would have to pay for five years, that if he could afford it and even raise it, he would not trust this government, he would rather submit his application abroad. This is a specific example, and unfortunately it is not one person, but in that year the number of applications in higher education institutions fell by 50,000, from 142 thousand to ninety-one thousand. I'm not saying that everyone and everyone of them went abroad because of this, but many of them thought it was because of your reckless actions that they would then rather submit their applications abroad. However, in general, the legal environment, the legislative mechanism that you operate, whether you make decisions overnight or take steps that eliminate jobs, impose new taxes, is all a source of uncertainty that puts young people and less young people in a situation of insecurity and makes them start thinking about a more predictable job abroad. In general, dealing with young people is also a phenomenon that contributes to the extent of migration and that half of these young people... - we know very well from statistics that nearly half of young people think about working abroad, and that your treatment of young people also contributes to this huge proportion. What am I thinking here? I mean, you don't deal with young people's problems at all according to their weight. What's the reason for this? From an electoral point of view, it is considered that they are less likely to vote, and that they should be less dealt with. Or what motivates them, I don't know, but I'm sure you don't deal with the problems of young people here in Parliament as a matter of priority, according to their weight. The second basic statement is, therefore, that you must exercise self-criticism and change the situation accordingly. And the third thing we have to agree on is that we can change this situation, we cannot sit back and really put ourselves in the calm position that this is an international trend, that is in every country, and we have nothing to do with it. If you continue to do so, it will indeed lead to a very serious situation in Hungary. If we can agree on these fundamental thesis, then this debate does make sense. And I trust that if, at a communication level, you cannot say these things many times, but you feel them deep down, and even because of this debate today, you will act accordingly. 'Cause it's serious. Many people have quoted statistical data, and I would not like to repeat them, but I would just like to draw attention to trends. I have pointed out that half of youth is thinking about working abroad and we are talking about an increasing trend. It's very important to make this clear, because it also issues a certificate of your work. The other very important thing - and these surveys also prove - is that these young people do not want to come home, very little of them thinks that, yes, they will come home in a year or two or in a short time. I understand that you're visualizing this, but that's not what the statistics support. And this is also a serious certificate for your work because you have repeatedly answered our questions about emigration, that you want to create a country, that you are working here to want to come home to these young people and to be less young. Well, I think that this statistical data will issue a very serious certificate of your work that these young people do not want to come home to your country. It is also a very serious trend that the most educated leave Hungary in a higher proportion than they are at home. In Hungary, 18 percent of society is a graduate, and 32 percent of immigrants are immigrants, which is logical, as those who can speak languages go abroad more bravely and work more easily in the light of their degrees. So this is a logical thing, but at the same time it is very dangerous for Hungary. And let us also talk about it, as it is perhaps the most important part of the debate day, what can be done in order to slow this process down in the first round, to stop it, and perhaps to reverse it so that Hungarians who have already migrated can come home. The first thing that is important for these young people is not a concrete measure, but, in general, the hope that it can be good at home. What does that mean? They can learn where they want to. This is also a very big problem today, though there are state-funded seats in higher education institutions, a very large number of young people do not get in here and are forced to, say, borrow students. So it's very important that they learn well, have a job. Our general speaker Gábor Vona also spoke about this, and the launching of real job creation in Hungary would be a vital and fundamental thing. They should have an apartment, this is also a problem for many young people, and even after they are 30 years old, very many people are forced to live with their parents, which could be positive in terms of social and family belonging, but we know well that, after a certain age, it is essential to start a separate life in a separate home. A lot of young people don't have that. I could say that hope requires credibility, and you don't have that credibility anymore. And let's wait for a new government, let's wait for a Jobbik government to solve this problem in 18, hopefully, but it would be irresponsible, because here, not only should we not lose years, but it matters every day, more and more young people think that they prefer to try their luck abroad. Therefore, I urge you, however worn out this credibility is, to take steps, to take steps that really give young people hope. And hope can be given if this is implemented by a comprehensive action programme, which will launch the tenant housing programme in Hungary; an action plan that will allow, for example, more money to be spent in education rather than withdrawal; a Youth Act will be created; a Youth Guarantee programme will not be introduced late as we are now witnessing, but as soon as possible; they will address the problem of traineeships, student work, problems surrounding student work, so that young people feel that this generation is important for this country and have the hope of keeping them at home. I ask you to think in this direction, to agree on the basics, that there is a problem, that you have a flaw in that, and that there is something to be done, and that you draw up a comprehensive programme that can really give the young people at home hope. And in this comprehensive programme, Jobbik is also a partner, and we would be happy if you could finally treat us as partners, follow our proposals, our comments, our programme points, and together we could make sure that we do not have such a sad future for Hungary, but really, these young people can stay home, and those who migrate can come home. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-30	I now give the floor to Congressman László Pósán.
u2014-12-03-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The question of migration, working abroad, coming home, migration, in addition to the fact that it is very complicated and diverse, it is clear that many areas are affected individually, to varying degrees and in different ways. So allow me, in this respect, to turn to students and graduates in higher education. Let us start with the participants in higher education, because there have been positions that many Hungarian students have submitted their applications abroad, because something terrible has happened here. That's what Congressman Gergely Farkas was talking about. Of course, the newspapers write a lot of things, and there's a lot to fish out of, but the statistics... [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] Personal experiences are, of course, limited, Congressman, everyone is familiar with them. Statistical data are those which are somewhat objective. I'd like to give you the following information, just so we're clear. We are talking about European Union data, so we cannot even say that the Hungarian Statistical Office has some kind of bias. [[11.50]] In the 2002-2003 academic year, the number of Hungarian students studying abroad was 8237; this was 2,18 percent of all higher education students with Hungarian citizenship. The number of students in Hungary at the time was 378 227. In 2006-2007 there was another survey of the EU, then this value is 8551 people, so this is how many people studied abroad. In terms of rates, it's a little lower, 2.05 percent. The next survey comes from 2011-2012, then 2.2 percent of all Hungarian students in higher education in Hungary studied abroad, so nearly as many as in 2002-2003. So, overall, you can't see a substantial shift here, no matter how much you'd like to make it look like it is based on the press. So it's not like they went to college in bulk abroad. The proportions show a balanced value in this respect. Smaller or larger annual fluctuations occur, of course, but there is no substantial, percentage, number and numerically expressable displacement. However, let us look at some international examples, just so that we can also place Hungarian values. In 2010, in Germany, 6.4 percent of German students studied abroad, so three times more than in Hungary. From this point on, the question arises that from this figure, which is often translated by the press in Hungary, the conditions of Hungarian higher education are terrible, the quality is terrible, and so on, so the students are leaving, it logically follows that it is three times worse in Germany, because this would be the result of the data. But obviously that's not the case. So it is not all that German higher education is in trouble, or that the Hungarian is in trouble, but it is quite simply good to see that there is a strong movement of migration in the student world, in any case, and that this is also strongly encouraged by EU policy. This is what Erasmus, Tempus and other programmes are about: student mobility. If you look at the quality of Hungarian higher education, there is another standard: what is the attractiveness of foreign students, in Hungarian, how many come to study in Hungary? In the autumn of 2012, the proportion of foreign students studying in Hungary was 5.9 percent for the student rate, and in the autumn of 2013, 7.8 percent, so a very significant increase can be shown in one year. If we look at this in some countries, we also see interesting data. The number of British students in Hungary was 23 in 2002 and 386 in 2013, the number of Austrians was 28 in 2002 and 175 in 2012. It follows that Hungarian higher education also has a strong appeal. And let us add that this includes the fact that it is cheaper for a number of European countries, including the Nordic countries, to buy certain trainings here than to maintain such infrastructure at home. In the case of medical training, this can be clearly stated. Consequently, this shows that there are several segments of Hungarian higher education that are particularly attractive, which shows that they are internationally recognised. In general, we can say that in the EU it is typical that the proportion of students in higher education and related migration show growth rates. Of course, this is a different area than how many people will work abroad. And now let's look at the other question of how and how things are going after graduation. It is undoubtedly true that migration is an actable phenomenon for young people. The proportions of this - and it is obviously a question of habitus - of what anyone considers to be much or not much, and so on - should not be underestimated. The question is, what's causing all this? A number of reasons can be listed, of course, from wages to jobs and so on, but let us not forget to mention a few things, because the result of things was not yesterday or the day before yesterday, but in many cases goes back further. First of all, with the long-standing representative Zoltán Pokorni said several times between the walls of this House, even before our accession to the EU, before 2004 that the opportunities for Hungary are broadened, the migration phenomenon resulting from the free movement of labour increases, and in order to avoid that, in 2002-2003-2004 he explicitly urged that there should be more room for education, education, training, the kind of approach that can be called patriot education, and added that, in the absence of this, ties would be loosened. And what happened, fellow Members? What happened was that the cult wallet led by Magyar Bálint simply threw this view into the trash can. And we see that there is such a consequence. Then consider the following reason: From 2002 the cult wallet led by Bálint Magyar has put in place a number of changes in the field of higher education, which, in fact, has significantly reduced the marketability of a very wide range of degrees, or, in other words, has made it unmarketable. We asked him here in Parliament several times, too, to tell him that when three plus two Bologna courses are introduced in certain areas, after three years of initial education, an English teacher or a student of literature - because it is not a teacher - can do what; or a person who studies biology or chemistry for three years and could be classified. And he couldn't answer it! This process has begun. This age group has been included as soon as 2003 but rather from 2004 to universities, let us calculate when they will be released, and we also have why statistical data show that larger migration starts out of 2008-2009. Because they come out of the walls of colleges and colleges, and they see the fact that they think they have a degree, but in the market, it's worth nothing. This responsibility cannot be bypassed. It is no coincidence that German, English and other surveys show that a significant majority of Hungarians who work abroad are obliged to take up working conditions and working conditions well below the qualifications of the paper form. In other words, with a three-year BA degree in his pocket, someone will be a pizza oven or a sink in London or Munich. It should also be borne in mind that the economy was finally put in a position before 2010 by the MSZP-SZDSZ government that there was a significant increase in public debt and that our potential was significantly reduced, including thanks to the IMF loan, which also significantly narrowed the margin of manoeuvre on the part of Hungarian policy as an offer for young people. If we look at how and how those abroad are related to this issue, I would like to remind everyone on the Danube World that they have broadcast the program "Go or Stay," which was repeated last night, among other things, at 9:35 p.m., in which many young people who live in London were spoken. They were different from the various questions, but in one respect everyone said one thing, namely: there is homesickness, the family is very absent, and one of the young men specifically said that he did not go abroad for financial reasons, he said this explicitly, and said that sooner or later we will go home. That was the attitude. There was another young man who, with a noble simplicity, said that he wanted to collect £7,000 and then come home, and of course, there was one who said that he was going to stay there. These situations of life are different. For most of them, homesickness does work, and therefore I dare say that one of the biggest problems, or, if you like, a crime, was committed by Hungarian politics when, after 2002, in the spirit of preparing for EU accession, you forgot or consciously did not want to face the fact that strengthening ties is more important than trying to eradicate national sentiment with the title of some doctrine liberalism, because unfortunately that is what has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, We're drinking the juice somewhere right now. Finding Good Solutions Certain movements have begun, but it is clear that these are still few. I think we will be able to find even better and wider solutions in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2014-12-03-32	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2014-12-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see Duna TV show a special interest in the subject right now, but guess, fellow Members, what is going on in Duna Television now that we are debating this phenomenon, which, in my opinion, and perhaps this is where there is some consistency here in this House, Hungary's future is permanently influenced socially and economically. I checked. Today's debate started at 9:00. The Danube Television started with an educational series called Hungarian Firsts. He continued with another series: There is only one family. We switched to Don Matteo at 10:15, and now the Inspector Rex is going. I think that, in the case of public television, if it is a question that affects Hungary's future to such an extent, it would be appropriate to convey this debate day, not Inspector Rex and Don Matteo. I hope that in the news coming soon, a few words will be remembered that today the Parliament organised a debate on migration, causes, consequences and possible solutions. I now come to the impression I have of the attitude of Fidesz, listening to you here. What I see is that you think everything is wrong here and everyone is wrong, the last 25 years are wrong, the world crisis is wrong, the press is wrong, the statistics are wrong, everyone is wrong about the phenomenon, only the government doesn't have a responsibility. Let's just stop for a second. Because although the Prime Minister is not here right now, which I sincerely regret is that he does not pay tribute to such a topic in Parliament, but he is fortunate to have received an immediate question about it, I asked Prime Minister how many hundreds of thousands of young people have to leave the country before the Hungarian government realizes that these young people are needed at home and have their place at home. Orbán emphasized, with a very distinguished repulsion, that I would be on a string here with Cameron, which, by the way, is totally not true, so he attacked me and pushed the whole case away. What did Prime Minister say? And watch this, because it's Fidesz's thinking. He started talking about EUR 2 billion a year. Hungary's Prime Minister talked about the EUR 2 billion that people who go abroad and earn money there will send home to Hungary. We know that Prime Minister doesn't hate the rich at all, and even encourages the poor to imitate the rich. However, what does the Prime Minister of Hungary think is that it would not be better if we produced this EUR 2 billion a year at home, if we were to talk about money in this area. But, you know, I don't just see the money. I can see the man, I can see the grandmother crying on my shoulder because her granddaughter is not at home, because she wasn't preparing for her old age, so that after that she wouldn't have a daughter or a granddaughter or anyone around her. He's coming home for a few weeks. This is what these people expect. That's not what they were up to. You want a country without grandchildren? And I am asking you this very seriously because I can speak with, yes, Hungary's long-term future, economy and society are fundamentally influenced by what will happen, what decisions will be made. I can talk about what will happen to Hungary's competitiveness. We can talk about everything. Yet, the Prime Minister of Hungary sees only EUR 2 billion in such a situation? Is that what we can do? Because then I understand why you have not signed this debate day initiative, because you do not really need people, but EUR 2 billion. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that a word from my fellow Member, László Földi, said that he thinks this is not a real problem; a lot of people are just saying that he wants to go abroad. Let's see the numbers. Currently, one in five young people under the age of 25 have no job. We're gonna go out on the street, we're gonna face five, we're gonna see what's going on. They don't work and they don't learn 15 out of 100. So if there are 100 young people, 15 of them don't have jobs or learn. If I'm talking about what happens here in the 25-29-year-olds, there's 25 percent. So one in four counts, I have to use that term, there's no perspective. What would you do in a situation like this? Ask yourself. There is a solution, however, this is sad, and it is not only a solution at home, because I will also talk about what could be done, but there is the Youth Guarantee programme, which was specifically developed by the Union, given that it is a problem that is also known in the EU, and it was the initiative of the European Greens, so let us try to do so here in the Community. Special emphasis should be placed on this in Hungary. What does the Hungarian government do? He's stalling. I've been writing and talking to a lot of people from Mr. Secretary of State Czomba about what's going on with the Youth Guarantee Programme. I think we should keep it there now, and whatever you will say, I will continue to maintain my view that we should now keep this programme working. There'd be a chance for that, but they didn't pay for it. Say you, the government that would squash 150 billion forints in next year's budget for all sorts of unnecessary things. They say the Youth Guarantee program is gonna go with the money. The same is also thought of the Istanbul Convention to protect victims of domestic violence and to prevent the situation. In such situations, you claim that there is no money. You have to understand, ever since you put this budget on the table, you have no moral basis to refer to a lack of money. Within four months, this Youth Guarantee Programme would guarantee Hungarian people under 25 years of age something, either work or training, or they could undertake. What are you doing with this program? They're stalling. I understand that you're coordinating to the right, I don't know exactly when this is going to happen, but understand that this is one way out of this situation, that the Youth Guarantee Programme is finally being put in place. The other thing that is important and which is 25 years of crisis, I fully agree with the person who thinks that there was no concept in this country of what we are doing with the housing situation. We live in a country where about 400,000 flats are empty, and none of the governments have had any fantasies, I don't know, or... - I'm not saying that he had the opportunity, the opportunity, he didn't just have the imagination and the ability to change that. Technically, no one lives in one apartment out of ten. We say that we need a radical shift here, an innovative state intervention by the local government, and we need to help people who have no self-esteem to buy a flat, someone who can't afford a market rent and who is excluded from the municipal rental program. However, municipalities obviously have a responsibility; otherwise, they have very limited room for manoeuvre and even more limited resources. But do you really think that this whole question can be left entirely to the local authorities? I don't think so. I think that they should consult with the relevant civil society professional organisations that have put down a concept, they should just do it, and in a situation where, if that were to be done, ten thousand families could be guaranteed housing from this kind of gain. They can't even say if they're so clueless that there's no one to consult. On the one hand, there are expert civilians, on the other hand, in many EU countries. So other countries did not stand by and draw up this programme. By the way, "Maybe Other" was developed by Politics, and it was part of our election program. We think that we need a radical transformation here, and we would give priority to family and young people in this area, because it is untenable for mothers to go from apartment to apartment with four children, and they cannot guarantee a permanent address for their children. Hundreds of thousands of young people go abroad because they have no jobs, no education, no housing, no prospects. So please consider what I have said here, starting from the interest of public television, to the fact that the Youth Guarantee Programme should be put in place and implemented, and focus on the fact that the housing situation cannot remain so unsolved. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-34	Ladies and gentlemen, Now it will be possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai for two minutes.
u2014-12-03-35	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. My two-minute contribution was inspired by Mr Gábor Vona's speech, who called those Hungarian citizens who work abroad social refugees. I don't think that's the case. Those are very strong words. It is a matter of respect and thanks to people who work abroad, and I think that all Hungarian citizens working abroad would ask for him to be called a social refugee. The subject that Parliament is discussing now, however, is a very important issue, and I am pleased that we can have a substantive debate on this within the parliamentary framework. [[Dóra Dúró: Why didn't you sign it?]] I'm glad because on this subject, namely... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why didn't you sign it?]] We're here in the National Assembly. [[This is your job! Dr. István Apáti: You work here!]] and we are talking about this issue, namely, that some young people are working abroad, there is a lot of slipping, distortion and a political-based, non-benevolent atmosphere. The groundwork that I think we need to say is that today many young Hungarians work abroad. However, this is not a problem in itself, because we can also say that many French, Polish and Spanish are working in other countries, and I think that somewhere in the European Union is also about free work, this must also be a basis for today's debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.10]]
u2014-12-03-36	Now we are going back to the normal group of speakers. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2014-12-03-37	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin my speech with a reference to a debate on the causes and process of emigration, in my opinion. According to Mór Jókai, only anyone who knows where we've come from knows where we've started. Ladies and gentlemen, We now know that we have reached the point where opposition politicians, regardless of the corner of the parliamentary horseshoe, and regardless of whose chariot they have pushed in the past decades, have been pushing for Horn Gyula, Péter Medgyessy, László Kovács, Kuncze, Gyurcsánye, Koka, Bajnaie, Gábor Demszky, all of them today have one goal and one principle: the worse Hungary, the worse this government, the better the opposition politicians. [[Moray from the opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, this is done in the most insidious and dangerous way by our fellow Member, András Schiffer, who I regret is not in Parliament right now. If we are listening to our fellow Member Schiffer András on this matter or other matters, then one feels a little bit like when a cult held a drug prevention and sent me the materials about how this cult protested against drug prevention; he said that this is a bad thing and distributed a booklet in which the characteristics and positive effects of each drug were indicated. András Schiffer was able to give a fantastic presentation to young people, children, about how many of them are abroad, how good it is to live abroad, and we may wonder if there are people who believe that and many of them are going away. Dear fellow Members, let's see where we started. At the time of EU accession, László Kovács campaigned that hurrah, young people can go to Austria to open a pastry shop and even eat poppy seed. Now they're qualifying for work abroad. Bajnai offshore opened a company in Cyprus, Simon Gábor held hundreds of millions of accounts in Africa [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You have one, don't worry.]] And now you're asking for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've been ruling for five years! Talk about that.]] If anyone is tempted to work abroad, the foreign way of life. Ladies and gentlemen, Gyurcsány, at the top of your Prime Minister's career, told me that you could leave this country. Not only did the young people leave, not only did the workers leave, the job-creating companies went away, the businesses, the enterprises went, and then they were open in Slovakia and Romania. Today, these Members ask us why the workers they chased away, who registered themselves at the time, are not here now, and why are they increasing the number of emigrated workers? ! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, history, the elections have confirmed that the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government has done more harm to this country than 50 years of communism. I'm sorry Ildikó Bangóné Borbély left the room. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Some of the congressmen will give the speech of the envoy of hatred, and then they'll leave the priest. I see. [[An uproar from the opposition benches. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: It is about emigration!]] I only understand when Ildikó Bangóné Borbély [[Márta Demeter: Don't get personal. István Apáti intervenes. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Stop it! L. Simon László: Listen to him!]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is outraged by the current government. Of course, when these measures were taken [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What will you do? Talk about that.]] when these measures were taken [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What are you doing?]] then he ran a LEADER office. I understand that he lived better then. And, ladies and gentlemen, from your fellow party, who gave the keynote speaker, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély should be asked when her husband became unemployed, if he is so disturbed, or if he believes that the cause of emigration is the absence of jobs. [[Márta Demeter: What is it?]] During the Gyurcsány government, when the sugar factory in Kaba closed. [[There's a lot of noise from the opposition benches. István Apáti: This is the standard!]] And you should ask the congresswoman's husband. [[Dr. István Hiller: And her grandmother, her great-grandmother!]] how many of them left abroad when the sugar factory closed. [[It's constant noise. István Apáti: You must stop now! Top of the line! å Interjections, among them: Sit down!]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, yes, have done more damage than 50 years of communism. Government debt doubled in their time. The economy has collapsed. The IMF has put heavy burdens on families. They took the 13th month's salary, took the 13th month's pension. [[Dr. László Varga: You took the private pension savings! What are you talking about?]] They all contributed to the start of the exodus at that time. They introduced the prescription fee, the hospital daily allowance, and, yes, you were the ones who told me to get out of this country. You know, fellow Members, it's like a neighbor cutting out a neighbor's tree and asking me to account for no crops, no trees, no shadows. You cut down the tree, and we planted a lot of trees, which is part of the solution. Yes, it is part of the solution to stop the migration of young people. In this sense, we planted a lot of trees that will give us, our children, and our grandchildren crops and a safe shadow. You, fellow Members of the opposition, would like to classify those working abroad and the job creation programme of this government and would like to discredit it. You, my opposition colleagues, after three election defeats, want to send a message today to the Hungarian people that it is wrong to live in Hungary. But then we say the words about today's agenda, because thoughts will not be remembered by anyone: for the solution, if someone did, then this government did. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's right!]] And that is particularly outrageous... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély enters the Chamber.]] Welcome back to our ranks Congresswoman Bangóné Borbely Ildikó. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Barbély!]] András Schiffer still hasn't returned. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Because he's taking over...]] And those are particularly outrageous, honourable Members, when female MEPs, screaming Bernadett Szél, women's representative [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: He will.]] and Mother MEPs encourage [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] and promote to our children how much better it is to live abroad. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] On the contrary, we have resolved the table, ladies and gentlemen. The previous government reduced the minimum wage and, in contrast to emigration, yes, part of the solution was that this government increased the minimum wage several times. The previous government abolished the family support tax system. Part of the solution is that this government introduced the family tax relief and provided some HUF 234 billion in support to more than one million families. Departure was supported by the socialist program of the previous government when the one-year-old child was taken away. It was used to stop emigration when this government returned and introduced the ged extra. This government has built 3,200 new nurserys. [[Dóra Dúró: Now you've tightened it up, it can't be after 60 days...]] We made the textbook free. Making the textbook free probably contributed to making people, families, and young families feel that it is good to live in this country. As long as the socialists also took a month's wages from teachers, this government will increase the salaries of teachers by 60 percent until 2017. The previous government said there would be no gas price increases and it would have been fifteen times. This government returned 250 billion forints to the Hungarian families through the reduction of the rent. This programme has probably also helped Hungarian families to feel that it is better to live in this country than the previous government. [[Dr. István Hiller: Much better!]] And you don't have to leave this country. And, ladies and gentlemen, while the previous government told employers and workers that jobs could be left and closed, dear Ildikó, your husband's workplace, the sugar factory in Kaba, where your husband was unemployed and unemployment was doubled, this government put 300 billion forints into the job protection action programme. Until 2013, nearly 800,000 employees received the tax relief. Gyurcsány used to say that we do not feel the wind of the economic crisis. However, during the excessive deficit procedure, the government of the MSZP put Hungary on the bench of shame, and could not keep Hungary close to the target of the unprecedented 3 percent deficit. The IMF has given the country its pleasure. The Orbán government reduced corporate tax from 19 to 10 percent. He left tens of billions of forints at Hungarian companies, making Hungarian companies competitive, generating economic growth for Hungarian employers, thus contributing to as many companies as possible in Hungary. [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Those who ring the alarm forget that unemployment was 12 percent before 2010. Now, ladies and gentlemen, seven percent. As much as our more advanced Belgium or Sweden. Before 2010, 3.8 million people worked, my fellow Members, now 4.2 million people work. This is part of the solution to reduce the number of migrations. More than 400 thousand people are working, honourable Members, than in 2010. We've reduced the burden on families. The government helps create a home. After ten years, employment is growing, wages are growing, it's easier to start a family, raise a child. For the first time since the change of regime, the government was able to stop and even reverse the migration of doctors and nurses abroad. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these are also facts that the government has done and is constantly doing to stop the emigration. The previous government freed foreign-owned banks from foreign currency loans to families. Socialist governments guaranteed and even stimulated the benefits of banks. In order to help foreign exchange lenders, sometimes even taking on the world's grudges, this government returned HUF 1000 billion to Hungarian families. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear House, When the opposition in this House tries to forge self-interest in political interests by distorting the facts, it makes more than a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the biggest employers in the country do not have a problem with whether the government's economic and job creation programme could be even better, but the biggest problem is that there are not enough workers. Ladies and gentlemen, In Jászság, Jászberény, where some of the country's largest companies are located, the crucial problem is that workers are transported by buses from 100 to 130 kilometers. In my narrower country, Jasmine, a welder earns 300,000 forints these days and gets a service apartment next to him. Please allow me to tell you: last week I attended a management club event in Jászság, Jászberény, where the largest jazz entrepreneurs were there. During an informal discussion, we raised and discussed a number of topics. In this multi-hour discussion, 80 percent of the conversation focused on the fact that entrepreneurs, employers, will not have enough employees in the future to continue working and further development. I would ask my fellow Members that if they encounter a problem in your environment where young people have no livelihoods, where they cannot go to work, they should not be sent abroad. Send them to the Jászság, where the entrepreneurs will welcome them with open arms. [[István Apáti: Everyone to Jászság!]] Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Those are the facts. If there is a government that has done everything in its power and does everything to make a living in this country and to make it as small as possible, then this government has done everything in its power. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps it might also be possible to consider how much better it would be if, in contrast to your own political interests, the parties, the Members of Parliament, did not advertise how many people are abroad, suggesting how much better life is there. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: How much worse?]] They'd be talking about facts. How much better it would be to rise above self-interest and allow the interests of the country, the interests of the individual, to be more important; to advertise to the young Hungarians that life is better and safer at home than it used to be; that it is better to live where their parents lived. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] if children are reminded that it may sound good to hear at home how much an action is made in England or anywhere, but do they know that there are five or six of them locked up in a temporary building or a worker's hostel, and do they know that instead of Sunday lunch, it is good to be able to eat the rest of McDonald's. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP and Jobbik. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] and do they know that if they calculate how much they made there - at the end of the year or at the end of the month - they will have much less in their pockets than if they had stayed in Hungary? [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] Mr President, My fellow Members are also shouting at young people to tell them how much better it is to live abroad, how much more money can be made, and if so many people have gone out, more people should go out - because with these comments and their yellings, this is the only thing they excite. [[István Apáti: Parliamentary genre!]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to present the contents of two recent letters to my fellow Members. In the summer, a team of college students spent the summer in England in the hope of a sound salary. In contrast to the promises, they had to pay for the accommodation, they had a far below-ranking job against the promises, they advertised companies and events on the boards on their backs, they had no money for change clothes, they came home sick, lost weight, empty pockets, and they couldn't even say that it was a good party because they had a humiliating job that the people there wouldn't have done, and as they put it, they wouldn't have done it at home either. [[Lajos Korózs: Speak up, John! Keep talking.]] A few days ago, I received another letter, which led me to explain the contents of this letter to my fellow Members and to the public. Please allow me to read this letter while respecting your personal data: I got out to work in Austria in 2013 as a housekeeper. They promised me 1000 euros and full care. Of this, I received only 700 euros, and I had to pay for any care and accommodation. In August 2013, I learned that I had become pregnant. My child's father is also my employer. I wanted to go to the hospital, but they told me that my partner had me working black with them, and if I dared to report it, I'd be banned from the country, and I'd be punished twice as much as they did. Then they called me a nurse on a four-hour shift. I accepted the offer, but I didn't speak the language. I'm in a tough spot. I had to cook for five people, wash, clean, scrape, feed 20 cattle, work, but that's not what they promised. My child was born here in May 2014. Since I was supposed to be here, I had to give birth here. After giving birth, my partner began to treat me aggressively: kicking me, slapping me regularly. In the middle of August, I called the police, asked for help. I told them I was being abused on a regular basis. They recorded the data, but nothing happened; though they did not understand what I said, that I could not speak perfectly. I had my baby registered in August, and I just got my papers. Now, in October, my boyfriend beat me up, unpacked my stuff in the car, kept my baby locked in the apartment in front of me. He did a self-inflicted injury on his hand right in front of me, and then he called the police that I beat him up. I was banned from the house, and then I got on the street with a court order, and I slept in the car, and they didn't give me a place in my home, and they kicked me out, and they told me to go to Hungary. I just wanted to live more and my life was ruined. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, These examples also support the fact that life abroad [[István Apáti: Understood! There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] It is not as pink as my fellow Members point it out. Ladies and gentlemen, There may be other good examples somewhere, but believe me, there are examples - not few - of working abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the examples and the economic figures that I have presented to you, which the government has done in order to make it better to live in Hungary, so that the emigration is as small as possible, these are facts in order to send a message. Let us send a message to the young people who have left the country that although there was a government and an ex-Prime Minister who said that there was no place for you to go, we would like you to come home, because there is no place for you outside this world. Mr President, thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. István Apáti: Thank you, too!]]
u2014-12-03-38	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, I'm asking you to let the electorate evaluate the speeches and not yell at you. [[Turning towards the MSZP fraction:]] I would also like to ask that the personal conflict between Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and János Pócs should not be expressed here in the House, because I have been watching the operation of the Parliament from up here for some time, and I have seen it several times; I do not think that it is working well for Parliament. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó's arms spread out: Mr President, what is it?! Interviews from the benches of MSZP pointing to the Fidesz fraction: You should say so!]] Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. [[12.30]]
u2014-12-03-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What doesn't work well for Parliament is what Congressman Pócs is doing. He said he'd send a message to the young people. I congratulate you on this message, which you did here at the beginning of your speech, and I am sure that everyone understood that, by the way. You certainly didn't go to ethics class. Follow my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély immediately and apologize immediately for his personalities. I'll wait. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! That's right! Applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] The MSZP fraction has 26,5 minutes. Since I believe that Mr President is unable to speak to Mr Pócs for technical reasons, a loud apology should be kind. I'll wait. Then we can continue the debate. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including: That's how I was raised, that's what it is! Let's hear it. Let's hear it. János Pócs intervenes.]] What? [[János Pócs: Then wait an hour. István Apáti: You are a true gentleman! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that says everything, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-40	Please get to the point, Congresswoman. Let's get back to work.
u2014-12-03-41	That's all there is to it. So even after these messages, I think it's a shame, by the way, what's happened here in the last few minutes between the walls of this House. I think that, by the way, much of the Fidesz fraction hopefully does not approach things this way, and that is why such harsh experiences are fortunately rare. However, the problem is that this kind of attitude or a subtler version of it is precisely those superior actions, lenient behaviour, which, by the way, greatly contribute to many other measures to the mass departure of young people from Hungary. There are virtually no families in the country today where there are at least one or two people who continue their lives abroad and are forced to work there for their own welfare, and the only way that their families can survive in Hungary is to buy food, buy medicines, learn, work if the money is sent home by those who work abroad from among their family members. This, by the way, is outrageous, and this is what Fidesz MEPs consider to be an adventurous desire. I don't know where they put their eyes, or where they put their souls, or the humane attitude, by the way. Because young people don't want slave labor, they want decent jobs, jobs they promised, if I remember correctly, there were a million things they mentioned. By the way, 15 percent of public workers are currently under 25 years of age. I ask whether this is the perspective, by the way, or whether there is a job-seeking allowance for just three months, and it's called a job-seeking allowance, because in that time no one will find a job. It is currently 15 months to find meaningful work in Hungary. So we should think about solutions. And actually, I'd ask, but it's just a rhetorical question, because we kind of know the answer, we know the screening's going, the success story, I just don't know who else they're gonna lie to. I do not expect an answer to my question because the Hungarian government is completely uncredited, it is now in a government crisis, in the crisis that it has caused itself, the problem is that it has caused not only a government crisis, but also a social crisis. A solution could be the Youth Guarantee Programme. Where is he? - poetic question. There would be EU support to help young people. The government doesn't care about him. He's trying to postpone all kinds of preparatory work. And the real jobs... Perhaps now we should think about a substantive economic policy and foreign policy, and not always about institutionalized corruption, and about which company, which person should be subject to laws in order to maintain this incredibly serious, power-only, infinitely bad policy. Think about that.
u2014-12-03-42	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos.
u2014-12-03-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot of opinions and a lot of numbers have been said by my fellow Members today. When I thought about the topic of the debate day, I recalled the stories we use to teach our children, and these stories are nothing but folk tales, stories that teach young people the wisdom of life. These folk tales are the same - almost all - that the protagonist leaves his home in these, goes to a foreign country where he stands up to trials, and usually the family supports them in going away, learning, gaining experience, getting to know the world, and carrying out the tasks, the mission they are destined for. This shows that folk tales teach us that it is indeed a very important element in the development of character that new knowledge and trial endures. It is said that a person can develop and live a more qualitative life by learning about himself, his environment, people, and that he can make the right choices in different situations of life. The other idea comes from this, because one of the most conducive forces in man's personal life and in the history of mankind as a whole is curiosity, the driving force that drives us to know the world around us. I know curiosity has its downsides, but there are a lot of blessings coming from this, because if you look at the development of scientific life, health care, medicine, healing, you simply wouldn't have achieved the results that result from well-being and human life. So getting to know the alien world, getting on the road, breaking out of normal is one of the necessary conditions for development. If we look at this, we Hungarians are not mobile enough, because it is true that this is not easy to measure - and my fellow Members have also referred to a lot of numbers and data - but if we look at the emigration rates of the European Commission for the last ten years, Hungary is the last of the countries in Central and Eastern Europe. It is true that many people have the idea that they might leave, but there are a lot fewer people planning to leave, and my fellow Member Pósán has also referred to this. For example, while more than 9 percent of the workforce from Romania went abroad, the same figure was 2.4 percent for Hungary. This also indicates that the Hungarian workforce is, as I said earlier, the least mobile among the countries that joined the Union with us. A few more figures for my fellow Members, I quote Eurostat data for 2012 regarding the number of migrants. In Estonia it is 6321 persons, in Ireland 89 436 persons, in Latvia 25 163 persons, in Lithuania 41 100 persons, in Hungary 22 880 persons, in Poland 275 603 persons and in Portugal 51 958 persons. If we look at the population of countries and the size of countries, we can also see that these numbers are quite low. Indeed, as my fellow Member Pósán mentioned, according to the surveys, only 10 percent of those who move out after 2009 say that they do not plan to return home, everyone else plans to return home. My fellow Members mentioned the young people, and I fully agree with you on this, because they are the future, and the figures really show that 40 percent of Hungarians moving out after 2009 were between 20 and 29 years of age, and 37 percent were between 30 and 39 years of age, which is why it is important to create an environment that ensures that young people return after experience. I would like to mention some programmes to my fellow Members, with which the government is trying to help. To facilitate the placement of young people, the medium-term objective is to help all job seekers under the age of 25 by involving EU funds. Under the Youth Guarantee Programme, all young people under the age of 25 should receive a high-quality job offer within a period of four months of loss of employment or completion of formal education, further education, apprenticeships or internships by 2018. [[12.40]] The programme will start in December 2014 and this is the first phase. It focuses on the location of young people looking for a permanent job, with an amount of HUF 40 billion available. The other programme is to support young people's entrepreneurial development, including entrepreneurial skills, entrepreneurial skills training, financial support for business start-ups, mentoring, counselling and incubator services. The programme will also be launched in December 2014 and the funds available for implementation will be HUF 4 billion. The third programme is an ongoing EU programme to improve the employability of disadvantaged people, aimed at helping disadvantaged job seekers enter the labour market, improving their employability by providing complex, personalised services and support tailored to local labour market opportunities and needs. Between 2011 and 2015, the available HUF 113 billion will be included in at least 117 thousand disadvantaged programmes. By October 2014, some 44,2 thousand young beginners, i.e. approximately 44 thousand young beginners, were involved. The fourth programme, to be mentioned, is the EU's proposal to support the employment of young people with secondary qualifications as trainees for nine months. The aim of this internship programme is to support projects by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which undertake to employ young young people under the age of 25 with secondary qualifications. Support for employment resulting in a new status, with a full or partial wage and contribution allowance for nine months, is the essence of the internship programme. The source of the program is HUF 8.5 billion. I hope that my fellow Members will see the efforts that the government wants to make to keep young people at home, to return home, and I hope that we will be able to do this together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-44	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2014-12-03-45	Mr President, Dear House, We are here at one of the most important debates of the year, when I would like only to make one request to my fellow members of the government: get out of the coma somehow. What has been performed here in Hungary over the last few hours is something quite amazing. It has been said that the opposition is in a mood when it talks about the emerging nature of emigration, that people are leaving out of curiosity, that this was quoted earlier, and it has also been said that Bálint Magyar is responsible for, for example, the fact that, due to various educational problems, the emigration started in 2008. So everyone here blames everything, one thing we have not heard is that in the fifth year of a government regival in Hungary, whose asset system almost completely lacks any solution in this matter. I'm not saying there's no intention. There may be, but in the key areas, the numbers simply don't justify you. And what is the reaction to opposition issues in this regard? For example, Congressman János Pócs is starting to deal with the family and family members of an opposition representative. It's quite pathetic, humiliating, insolent, unmanly behavior! [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] We have to tell you that you are absolutely coerced. Why do they explain in all their speeches? Did anyone blame you here? Did we start by criticising the current government exclusively for the development of the situation? It's not like that. But you feel that you have a responsibility in this area, so you explain in each speech that you bring up existing or non-existent statistical data and try to justify that you have been doing it for the fifth year, not to say that nothing, because it wouldn't be true, but in terms of numbers, you seem to have gone in the wrong direction. It is clear that the population disaster - which is the basis for the whole problem - would require 2,1 or 2,2 children per family to remain the same as we are. Hungary is surrounded by 1.3, and although there seems to be some decline in the downturn, we cannot say that the catastrophic trend that we are seeing has reversed. We have to say that we are in a situation where the government knows, and the background studies that underpin the budget know that the Hungarian National Bank's studies also know that, by 2050, the social security system - at the latest - will face a very serious collapse. Budget revenues shrinking as a result of weight loss will make it impossible to extract, for example, old-age benefits. If this is addressed by an amazing emigration, which Hungary is experiencing more and more at regional level, then it is obvious that this date could be close to 5-10-15 years. I understand that you won't be on the government. I understand that you do not want to deal with this responsibility yet, because the then ruling party or parties will solve it, but you have to see that anyone who rejects this responsibility tries to explain the amazing economic trend that unfolds in front of us, with such absolutely amazing justifications, with other family members, adventurous desire, curiosity and madness, with such a qualified betrayal. It is also necessary to see that one of the harshest opposition speeches, more precisely pro-government speeches, if I remember correctly, was that the European Union, on behalf of Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, was working this way, please. The most natural thing in the world is that 300, 500 or 600 thousand people - let us not go into the number war now - leave Hungary, most of them do not plan to return. At the same time, it can be seen that, as Western Europe is also affected by population problems, an average of two million workers per year are needed in the Western half of Europe in such a way that if it is not satisfied, it could expect an almost immediate economic recession. What kind of solution did they choose? It seems that immigration from former African and other Asian areas creates social tensions that are unsustainable. The solution was chosen not only to carry out a brain drain for Eastern Central Europe, because not only the most qualified go away, but also a labour pump that can make up for these two million needs year after year from Eastern Central Europe, a region where 93 million people are still in the surrounding countries. Unified action could still prevent this region from being pumped out and evacuated. But you don't talk about it. You're talking about people leaving out of a sense of adventure and curiosity. It's an amazing way around this problem. They say that there are only estimates, that you can't work on this basis - they say that after citing KSH data. In terms of estimates, let me tell you how to ask nurses, doctors, or even now ITists, butchers, or masons' unions, they can tell you quite accurate sectoral numbers in a quarterly and updated way about what is happening. You can see that if you think that Hungarian young people are just adventurous, they go to study, most people come back, they don't see the world's processes. The example of Romania has been mentioned. Here we can say that, yes, there are about 3 million people out there, and they're saying that the pension fund has to be replaced very seriously. They're launching patriotic programs to call the outsiders home - unsuccessfully, I add. It is also necessary to see that the diasporas formed from Romanians exist with Romanian television, Romanian radio, covering the whole of the city. Typically, this is in Spain, Italy, but with the rise in the number of Hungarian spills, it will not create a similar Hungarian model, as it will further accelerate the amazing pump that Hungary has to live through. It is clear that a long-term economic strategic issue should be resolved here, and you are not worthy of this debate on the basis of your speeches so far. You have no idea that the mason will continue to go to Italy, Spain for four-time wages - but if his wages were so high at home, how would you invite the strategic partners, the multinationals, with the promise of a cheaper wage level? So the whole economic policy line they're following is a failure, doomed to a dead end, and encodes the collapse itself. Our lead speaker, our leader, Gábor Vona, spoke about the importance of job creation, which would be one aspect of the solution, so I am talking about the other, which is the issue of home creation. It has been said that the government supports home creation, and now, besides socpol, it introduces such a semi-socipol-like solution, but it does not detect the problem that anyone who does not have 16 million for that apartment may not even have 13.5. So you can give discounts, but the statistics do not show the effect that the government here - once again, five years - will achieve any kind of home creation success. The fact that you support 2.0 of the exchange rate barrier from the budget contributes both to the looting of victims and to the fact that it does not build any new housing. So Jobbik advocates a state-based home-building and rental-building program, where all Hungarians are young and middle-aged, but also older, if you are interested, then you can get market prices, up to a third of the market rental price to your apartment. [[12.50]] After a few years, this detail can become a voluntary instalment, a ownership detail, so you can also get access to that property. In this way we would give a capital injection in addition to the Hungarian construction industry to 4-5 other sectors, with central procurement, with Hungarian contractors, to the highest possible ratio with Hungarian suppliers. We could create a national program, do you know how much? From HUF 60 billion, such a program can be launched in the first year. Half of the 120 billion set aside for so-called integration purposes until 2020 should be spent on Hungarian young people, the future of Hungary. I simply can't say anything else about the people who stayed at home, and besides almost every Hungarian Christmas tree, the problem may arise that a family member will not be there or be absent, so at the time of Advent, all I could ask is for you to look at yourselves, to finally process this problem, to acknowledge that it exists and to descend so that you can develop common solutions, because this cannot be a party issue, this cannot be the question of your ego. It is indeed the duty of the Hungarian Parliament to find a solution to Hungary's most serious problem, regardless of party colors. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-46	I now give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2014-12-03-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[His mic's falling off.]] Allow me, given that time has passed, but briefly, to give you some thought on this issue. First of all, I would like to say that this is indeed a serious problem, although I think that you do not know the country, who thinks that this is the most serious problem, but there is no doubt that this is a serious problem, but if we want to talk about it calmly and look for a solution, the first thing that needs to be stated is that it is not a Hungarian problem, but an Eastern European problem. Here, my fellow Members have already presented statistics to him, comparative data, so it is clear that in Eastern Europe, I would rather say not about Hungary, but rather about foreign workers, because this is where the statistics were published, and they did not deny that 84 percent of those who go to work are also clearly going to work, so those who go to work will probably come home. So as long as we're talking about this problem, comparison will hold up. We can see that in some countries, such as Romania, this is much more serious. For example, this is a serious problem in Transylvania, for example, and there is not only the question of assimilation, but also the problem of the survival of Transylvanian Hungarians is the staying of young people living there, which the Hungarian government helps through education through various means. There is no doubt that we are encountering these problems locally, and these problems also live together in my constituency, but on the one hand there are a significant number of settlements - they are older - and thousands of Germans and even Russians settle in our country, so they find the opportunities. However, there is no doubt that the exodus of young graduates, if you look at it as a temporary exodus, is present either in small towns or in large cities - I think that is at least one of the problems - and from large cities to the rest of the world. But what I can tell you is that if we compared and saw the data, we can certainly conclude that if Fidesz governance had not achieved results in our economic life, it would have been much worse. Here, in fact, I think that we all agree that these proposals exist in recent times, and I think that many programmes must be implemented for young people - whether in the area of housing or working for young people - and if, say, Jobbik's policy to leave the Union, then they would not only see young people emigrating, because they would still go to work abroad, at the most in a different way and find the means, they would not come back, that would be the difference. The point is that, in contrast to the previous governments, we say that it is not possible to go, but to come home, and even to come home, and to base our entire policy on this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-03-48	On my monitor is Mrs. Schmuck Erzsébet [[For signal:]] I'll give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2014-12-03-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech has been very refreshing to me since I sat here, one of the most interesting. The title of the debate day is:. The causes of migration from Hungary and the possible solution to stop the process. The solutions have hardly been discussed, but there has been this political debate, which, in my view, is an underdignity point to each other from Parliament. There is one thing to acknowledge, and that is my own opinion, namely that I think it is a lie to deny the fact - it is like climate change or something else - that we have to face this fact. I am not saying that it has started over the last five years, and that we may be at some stage of a process that has started since 2004 and I am not saying that Fidesz governance is solely responsible for this, but the fact is that this is happening right now, and at the moment it is causing serious social problems, that is what we need to talk about. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The sentences by Congressman Manninger that there is an emigration of workers and that they are coming home, that is what we can see as a folk tale, unfortunately, that is not so typical. A significant part of the migration to Hungary occurs in a stable retirement age, and at the moment, the age of workers, the active age, which means the graduates and the skilled workers, unfortunately, we are experiencing an opposite effect. What we're seeing is someone going out for three months to fix his financial situation, and then he tells me I'm gonna stay outside for six months to pay off my loan, and then he says I'm gonna wait for the first kid, because then he's gonna be born in better circumstances. We see a multitude of families who stay out here permanently, that they really want to come home, that they really are looking for an opportunity, but they do not see the breeding ground at home for what to come home to. And unfortunately, it's a myth that it'll have its roots later. No, we will not, and we will have to face this problem, we will have to deal with this problem, and it would be good for the dialogue to go in this direction, how we will resolve this. Obviously - in response to the words of Congressman Pócs - I do not agree that Jászberény is a representative example, either Kecskemét or Győr or Szentgotthárd, because it is precisely the biggest problem of Hungarian rural development that it creates jobs centrally in one place and eliminates the possibility that every settlement, many small settlements and small farms throughout the country can be strengthened, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Hungary can be strengthened. The direction that Jászberény represents, in contrast to the large investment made with many other strategic partnerships, is a dead end, and this cannot be maintained, and this is an example of the past period. This is an emergency solution, but at the same time we see that this is clearly not working, because it cannot handle a large part of the rural population. And what the congressman refers to is that people are being moved from 100 kilometers away, well, that's the problem, this is not a positive example, but a negative example of creating a new job within a 130-mile radius, where there is a market. This is what we need to do, how to achieve rural development, so that every single person on the ground can find a job, so that in the morning, when they have to take the child to school, he can be at home at the start of school, and when he needs to be taken from daycare, he can still be at home and not 130 kilometers away. How many broken families do we see where the father works in Győr and goes to the Transdanubia, in different places, for those reasons? ! If what the civilian government is talking about is important, family values and traditional Christian values, it should be talked about how there should be a rural development direction that can keep families together, in a place of residence, in a settlement; how to get children to be at home and to go out to their grandfather's grave, because they do not need to migrate, and this is the solution to be sought. Life is much better and safer at home - you liked to read letters about very negative examples that are obviously real problems and are in many places. But it is also important to know that a letter comes when the mother writes that she is leaving the country for the same family abuse, because she does not feel that she is protected by the authorities in Hungary, she does not feel that the police are on her side. They are in small towns and villages, who leave their villages for the same security reasons, because they no longer feel the state is on their side. And these are the solutions we need to talk about. There is an example of everything, and there is an example of the opposite. Overall, we are obviously asking your responsibility as an opposition, or I am looking for this responsibility because the two-thirds point would give you the opportunity to do anything that points in the right direction. The two-thirds would create the opportunity not only in legislation but also in the allocation of resources to develop rural developments that will enable people to stay in place, and we are now seeing very, very concrete examples of this when negotiating the budget. Let us bring in the amendments that would serve rural development, which would create the walkability of rural roads, so that the centralised administration and the centralised health care system are available to people living in villages, and we can see how they bleed at Commission level, because they have no chance of creating this financial background against a stadium construction. [[13.00]] I do not want to impose on you the responsibility of the entire process, but rather the fact that, at the moment, the government's efforts to stop this process are not sufficient, and the resources we devote to keeping people in place are insufficient. Consequently, the responsibility of the government is clearly outstanding because when we talk about the resources of the European Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development or the Structural Funds, how much development will come to the country in the next five years, we need to talk about how these can serve this process. But at the moment, unfortunately, they cannot serve, because the public administration is starting to want to operate from the Structural Funds, and there are administrative units, half of which operate as project owners and managers, because there is no financial background to ensure the functioning of the public administration, and these resources, which should serve the rise of the regions, which should help them to stay in place, often serve completely opposite purposes. In your communication, this work-based society is regularly reminisced. It has also been said here that the employment rate has increased, and this is obviously also the role of public work. But let me say again: the public work programme that has reached a higher level of employment shows precisely the failure that Congressman Pócs has been talking about, that there will be labour demand in some areas. Many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling with the fact that there are no workers with adequate backgrounds to hire, and the economies are unable to move forward. This means that the public work programme, which has been built in recent years, is an employment dead end, there is no transition from public work to the economic sector. Obviously, the figures show this, and the statistics show this, because otherwise there would be no need for a greater source of public service funding again. So this is the direction that is not attractive enough, and that is what needs to be changed. I ask you to look for a solution, not to upset the responsibilities of the former governments, because once the electorate - you have said this - has already given us an opinion, what we need now is to look for a solution now when you govern it. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-50	Welcome. We continue our work with two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyopáros Alpár, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that there is a rare occasion, because Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, at least the first sentence of his speech, is entirely in agreement. Your first sentence sounded that mass emigration from Hungary started five to six years ago. I'm sorry, but I have to respond to this because the title is about the reasons and not just the solutions, the reasons. You are right, because seven years ago, in 2007 and exactly in 2007, the first year was when the number of Hungarians who took up their jobs abroad significantly increased, and from then on, the number of people working abroad increased by 8 to 10 thousand per year, in 2007, 2008 and 2009. I must remind the Member that in 2008 the Prime Minister of Hungary was named Ferenc Gyurcsány and in 2009 the Prime Minister of Hungary was called Gordon Bajnai. [[To interrupt Dóra Dúró:]] Just a moment, if you'll excuse me, Congresswoman Dúró, I'll finish. The next major leap in foreign employment was indeed at the turn of 2011-2012. There is only one reason for this, Congresswoman: in the case of Germany and Austria, the labour derogation ended that year. Workers who entered the German and Austrian labour market at that time, that if a year earlier or a year later the last year of the derogation period had happened, they would definitely have entered these labour markets. It doesn't matter whether the head of the government following Gordon Bajnai was called Gábor Fodor or - to mention another extreme - Balázs Lenhardt, it doesn't matter whether these workers would have appeared on the German and Austrian labour markets in 2011-2012. Perhaps in the next two minutes about the solution proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-52	I wish to inform the Honourable Parliament that the head of the KDNP faction has informed me that he is transferring his entire timeframe, i.e. the full timeframe of KDNP, to the Fidesz fraction. This announcement is a presidential duty, and from now on, I would like to change the clock and increase the time frame of Fidesz. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. On a two-minute comment, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say to Mr Pócs: on behalf of my husband, myself and my family, I would like to ask for the manner in which you acted, and I would like to tell you to respect the fact that my husband is not a public figure. Okay? May I ask you to respect that within these walls? The other one. I must have really pissed you off with something, and this thing could be that it hurts when you tell the truth. Please note that the truth doesn't have to hurt, it has to be borne, it has to be borne by everyone, and I would ask you that if your fellow Members in your own group behave this way, please tell them that this is not appropriate, this cannot be done within the walls of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-54	A two-minute speech will take place, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I need a change, so I'll give the congressman the floor later. It is now for Congressman András Schiffer to take the floor. I apologize to Congressman Nitrai, you'll get it in time. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am used to the fact that János Pócs is not usually capable of a meaningful, reasonable debate, so I have no such expectations. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] The thing is, Congressman, I heard you missed me. The reason I wasn't here was because there was a Union of Engine Leaders who protested that you broke down people who had legally acquired early pension rights until 2012. Unfortunately, two parties considered it important to be there to receive the petition; Fidesz was not among them. Besides, Congressman Pócs, I'd like to ask you once again not to insult and lie to others here. You're talking about how I don't know what kind of drug prevention lectures I did. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that I've never dealt with a subject like this before, so I'm gonna ask you to stop lying. Okay? Perhaps you should consider the melon cartel if you cannot comment on the problem of emigration; consider, say, how many young farmers the melon cartel is destroying in Jass. This would be a much more exciting topic, worthy of you. I see you're doing very well; you seem to be preparing for another business. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I would very much ask you to stop lying and besmirching other Members and follow Congresswoman Bangón. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-56	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, To say that you are unable to make a meaningful exchange of views, that you cannot comment on the problem of emigration, that you are preparing for another business, my dear fellow Member Schiffer, these are insults! I see now that you are busy talking to Mr Józsa, I would just like to point out that you are constantly insulting your fellow Members. For example, you have lectured Congressman Pócs and insulted Congressman Pócs. [[Noise in the ranks of the opposition.]] So if you think, honourable Member, if you think that this is a worthy conduct that you are doing here, then we will probably have a completely different view of civilised conduct and parliamentary arrogance. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You tell me.]] Let me have my own opinion. [[Dr. András Schiffer: All you do is keep interfering in other people's business!]] I won't interfere, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Now I realize I have the floor right now, and you're interfering with what I'm saying. He yells you're gonna tell me that. [[Noise, interruptions in opposition.]] Let me tell you. [[István Tukacs: Congressman Pócs, press the button. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then the congressman pushes a button, and he reacts when he wants to. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-58	Dear Parliament, I must draw your attention to the fact that the subject of this debate is so important to all Members and Members that they make speeches on this subject, recognising and allowing the debate not to be limited in other respects by the President, I will not, but in view of the importance of the subject, please return to what the debate is about. I give the floor to the representative of Fidesz, Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai.
u2014-12-03-59	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I suggest we all stick to our agenda, because it's a pretty important thing. [[13.10]] The voice of the representative of the LMP made me want to speak, too, because our fellow Member said that he was trying to quote the Prime Minister incorrectly, that Hungarians working abroad have so far sent home billions of euros of money. That is what one of the members of the LMP called out to me about how to say such a thing. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that this is not a kind of fiscal approach or a fiscal aspect. The fact that Hungarians working abroad have so far committed billions of euros to their homes indicates that they are thinking in Hungary, wanting to remain Hungarians in the long term, but they also support their families from abroad. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] This thinking is an emotional issue in the first place, and I suggest that everyone approach it in this way. And I think that we owe thanks to the fact that they didn't choose unemployment benefit at the time, but took up competition and struggled in the often difficult situation: they went to work abroad; they also did so to the citizens of other countries in Europe. I think they should be thanked and respected for that. Some of the opposition colleagues have said that this is a kind of escape. And I say that there is also a very serious possibility in this, because anyone who goes abroad to work will certainly learn a language at a professional level, at least the knowledge of a foreign language, learn a new culture, gain a foreign job experience. And each survey shows that for Hungarians working abroad, in their 80-90 percent, this is clearly temporary work abroad, so they want to and will come home to Hungary, and we are waiting for them. It also shows how they live their lives abroad. As far as I am aware of this issue, and as much as I have talked to our fellow Hungarians working abroad, their Hungarian communities are clearly maintained while working abroad, they organise such programs, meetings, retain their identity and participate in the decisions; this is also shown by the fact that, for example, Hungarian citizens living abroad participated in the parliamentary elections. This also shows that they are thinking in Hungary, but at the moment they live their lives abroad and work there, if any. At the end of my speech, I would like to emphasise once again that there were indeed governments who said that it was possible to leave Hungary. We say that there is no problem when young people see the world and work abroad. We'll definitely expect them back, and we'll tell them to go quietly, see the world, gain foreign, international experience, and then come home, and we'll wait for them to come back to our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-60	Thank you very much. Mr. László Teleki, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-03-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have to admit that I have been naive in the last few days when I have been approached by several people from abroad who are working outside by Hungarian people, whether or not the government is saying something today, when they have heard about this political debate day. I said that it was certainly expected that he would make an announcement today that would settle their fate or the fate of their families. Therefore, I think I was naive because I encouraged them to watch the broadcast, to watch the news that would appear, and perhaps to hear specific things. Because it is possible to say when emigration has started in the past period, and of course it is possible to define and define the reasons for it, but you have been ruling for five years, and in five years you could have made a lot of laws that could have served as a means of bringing families together, whether social, educational, health or other problems. For the past five years, you have not done what you expect from the society that is out there, and more and more people are out there. Because those who have gone out don't want to come back because they still see poverty, they still see a lack of hope, and they still don't see it in the government to protect families. Therefore, I think that if we are talking today about how to bring these young people back, older people who have gone out, then they have not received any answer from you today either if they want to offer health workers an alternative to working at home and working at home. But they couldn't and didn't want to, I suppose, provide any alternative to those who, thanks to their intellectual capacity, could work at home, say, in the field of science or culture, and offer an alternative to come home then, this and that we can provide for you. Those young intellectuals, graduates, they didn't get any chance from you. But I'd keep going. I mentioned health care. It has been possible to see, in recent days, that several doctors leave county hospitals and other health institutions. They will certainly find work and work abroad, because they will not find work in this situation. The question is whether doctors, the doctor, want to provide an alternative to emigration. And I don't think it's possible to say that the career models that you've announced - whether the pedagogical career model or anything else - would have brought and provided an alternative to the people who live here. As a result, I think that the current government has a responsibility, and it is its responsibility today at the end of the debate day, when the government summarises the comments, to give alternatives to the people living outside that offer the opportunity to work here. And it is a very important word in my system of values whether they are trying to strengthen family ties with government measures that they want to implement in the next period. It is true that I do not see the financial implications of this in the 2015 budget, but they will certainly provide the answers to which those young people who work outside are interested and which bring them back to Hungary's reality. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-03-62	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sadly, it's a common story: When are you coming home, brother? 'My two little boys ask my wife's younger brother 'when they talk on Skype. Brother-in-law is trying to make fun of the answer, but when he doesn't talk to the children, he doesn't make a fuss, he's bitterly asking why he would settle home. He's probably not gonna make that move. Why not? Because for 80-90 thousand forints - what you earned here as a skilled worker, which you can't make a living, plan, start a family - it's simply not worth coming home from. And the great horror, ladies and gentlemen, is that, with this from the South Transdanubia region, we have another 50 to 100 thousand highly educated, highly skilled, highly agile economic refugees, who, thanks to the party of the government who derailed the regime, have taken a wandering stick in order to avoid the economic, social inability that would indeed constitute an existential slaughterhouse for them. It is not, therefore, my fellow Members, that young people from Somogyi, Tonnai or Baranya would come home after their desire for adventure by the Prime Minister. It is outrageous that we are not aware of such fundamental things as the exact numbers of emigration, the intensity of emigration, its tendency or the specificity of the region, because of the failure of the state that is constantly talking about human resources. Moreover, there is no well-defined strategy to slow down the whole process and to halt the assimilation of Hungarian children born outside. If these harmful processes continue, the remaining 93,000 square kilometres of countries will become untrained, the sick, the elderly, the unemployed, a state that is unsustainable and will lead to legal collapse. This will be even more particularly true in the counties of South Transdanubia, which remind the region of North-East Hungary in many respects, i.e. Somogy, Tolna, Baranya, because high value added production becomes an illusion, the backward economy is preserved, and without an established strategy of action, the plan and prediction of the Hyenas of the World Bank is realized, according to which 5-6 million Hungarians are enough, obviously only for maids. Somogy County loses a mass of Siófok every ten years. More than a hundred of the 246 settlements are now on the road of extinction, and the exodus of our young ones adds to this. For each delivery, there are three or four deaths, which I've talked a lot about here in the House. [[13.20]] Why is that? Only because the native population in Koppany's land is slowly becoming pannon-palestine in the grip of the large estate system owned by thousands of hectares of foreign or domestic kft. Of the 80,000 inhabitants of my constituency, about 70 percent are villagers, but at the end of the employment and payment rankings, there is no trace of the agricultural policy that keeps the population. Jobbik's better-meaning proposals are roughly wiped out, and our legitimate complaints are usually answered with arrogance. It's time to wake up because it's a national matter of fate! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-64	Member István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-65	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are talking about the causes of migration from Hungary and the possible solutions to halt the process. I would like to start by being a first-cycle Member and expressing my shock. Before us we have a huge problem, Hungary may be the most serious problem, and we are on a debate day, where we want to find possible solutions to stop this problem, we are talking about it, but instead I see that we do not agree with the basic problem. The two-thirds majority, at least from their speeches, shows that it virtually denies emigration and, in particular, its importance. My fellow Members have long rated numbers, LMP Members, but other Members, including half of the 18-29-year-olds who want to move abroad, want to move there. A third of them are graduates, and this ratio is significantly higher than the proportion of graduates at home. So the intellectual ratio is over-represented here. But if we are arguing over the numbers - in which I think we all agree - at least the Secretary of State of Tállai has said this number of 350 thousand, which the Statistical Office has taken; to which he said he could not imagine more than 450 thousand. Then let's get out of this $450,000. Then I heard from various Members, especially the pro-government people, that this is actually a bagatell problem. He began with Mr János Harghitai, a KDNP representative, who said that he wanted to do what he wanted to do with the bigger numbers, and then he left in the idea of having a smaller county in Hungary who emigrated. Well, in Hungary, the smaller counties are around 200-230 thousand, so I think you should talk about either two smaller counties or a larger county if you really don't want to blur this out. Congressman Jenő Manninger has diagnosed this as an Eastern European problem. I would like a little correction, because - at least I think - we are not living in Eastern Europe, and I would like to hope that we are not going in that direction. We call this region Eastern-Central Europe, and we fully agree, it really extends... Or do you think it's Eastern Europe? I'm sorry, 'cause he's shaking his head. [[Jenő Manninger: No.]] Yeah, I'm glad. So we fully agree that this is really not just Hungary's problem. The diagnosis includes that, and we have to take that into account. This is a bigger problem. And it is true that other countries, other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, are more affected than we are, but this does not exempt us. Maybe in a few years, we'll get there exactly. This must be prepared, and solutions must be found. I think it is very wrong to point back that they are pointing back at the previous governments, because you can see that this process really started then, and you can also see that this is a whole social process, and you can see that this process has accelerated. I think we should at least agree on the diagnosis, because then we can move towards a common solution. Possibly Other Politics does not want to talk about stressing problems, but about solutions, because we think that emigration is not the disease itself, it is just a symptom. We believe that the disease is a failed social and economic policy for the past decades, and we should find the solution together. This can also be seen from the fact that it mainly affects young people, and this highlights the weight of the problem. As I said, this process unfortunately accelerated in 2010. That must also be stated. Between 2010 and 2012, this jumped two and a half times. It is also very important to clarify this. Possibly Other Politics has put forward a number of suggestions, since we are talking about proposals. My fellow party Bernadett Wind talked about an apartment program that tries to keep young people at home, and a very simple thing that actually doesn't cost the country a lot of money. The vast number of vacant flats, so that their owners could benefit, was proposed to rent them out with a state guarantee. He was talking about a youth guarantee program. My fellow Member Sallai on local economic development, food processing, and I could say that all of them are programmes, proposals that would advance in solving these problems. What I would like to talk about is the only solution that is our resource. After all, we in the middle of Europe think that we are looking everywhere at what resources we have: the depths of our land do not contain resources; our industry - although there was a time when this country was called the country of iron and steel, or they wanted to call it that, we should not go back here - obviously our industry is not what we can jump out with, we do not have any competitive advantages in this area. What we have enormous potential for is knowledge. The fact that Hungarian education has a long history and has achieved very great success, the Hungarian skulls have made a great leap in this country, we should build on this, to develop knowledge, to develop education, because this is our breaking point, this is why we can pull ourselves out of the swamp in which we are increasingly immersed. I would also like to make some proposals, without going into this in a very specific way, because that is not what this debate day is about. For example, what we have proposed on several occasions is an increase in resources. The Possibly Other Policy would increase spending on education by one and a half to two times. After all, the first step is to invest in this. At the moment, unfortunately, this is the opposite trend, and the amount spent on education is increasingly decreasing. It's not moving forward, it's moving us backwards. It is very important to increase the proportion of graduates. The EU 2020 strategy provides for 40%. We're still very, very far from achieving this. This would be a key task for us to make our own move. We were talking about the termination of the tuition fee, which would allow more and more people to enter higher education institutions. This is obviously closely related to the previous point. The development of higher education in rural areas is often mentioned, since this is what helps to keep young people locally. It is very important what has already been said here - and this has been mentioned by a fidesz Member - that the intellectuals move from small settlements to larger cities and from there to the capital. This must be stopped in some way. One of the options for this is that rural colleges, and not only economic colleges, but also social science colleges, can remain in rural areas, as they can form the basis and base of local intellectuals, which obviously will have economic effects. Obviously, those people who acquire knowledge in higher education will be able to undertake it, and those 1.5 million people who are left unemployed after the change of regime will be able to create jobs. These will be the ones who will be able to attract young people who have gone abroad. She lived with it, imposing the opposition, rather than ordering young people to come home. Obviously, it shouldn't be ordered, it's not a workable thing, it's to offer a perspective at home that they're coming home to, and that's what I just suggested. Obviously, it would be very important for education to move forward, to raise the wages of teachers, as it is also necessary for the teacher's profession to recognise that a real wage increase is being made and a real career programme is being implemented, not only in public education, but also in higher education, because it is on this basis that young people will be able to imagine a future for them to stay home. I have also referred to this in the last few days, but unfortunately the opposite is happening, despite the promises, the promised increase in wages of teachers is decreasing by ripping the salary base from a fixed minimum wage. Finally, binding to a clot is not a solution to these problems, it is proposed to abolish it. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-03-66	Thank you very much. The government's two state ministers have asked for the floor. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Gábor Zombor. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2014-12-03-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Just for the record, first, Congressman Ander Balázs. He said there were three or four deaths for one delivery. [[Dóra Dúró: Somogy County.]] I'd like to tell you, more birth, less death, more moderate natural weight loss... [[Ander Balázs: In Somogy County among the Hungarians. Dr. Répássy, Róbert: We do not know such statistics. Ander Balázs: We do.]] - I'm sorry, let me tell you, because it's important that we be factual, and that's welcome, just to maybe agree on something. In the first nine months of 2014, 68 119 children were born, 3 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. And the number of deaths recorded was 92,464, which means a 2.4 percent reduction. So the natural weight loss in Hungary today is 4242 less than in the last year. This was also about health, and I had the pleasure of talking about it in the Health Committee today, so let me have a few thoughts on this. The problem exists and is a serious problem, as my fellow Members have said, as the number of healthcare workers who wish to do their work abroad has been constantly increasing since we joined the European Union. It is worth adding that, according to the EU's official forecast, by 2020, one million health workers will be missing from the countries of the European Union. So not only in Hungary, in all the countries of the European Union, they are facing this problem. It is only a noticeable fact that 40 percent of doctors working in the United Kingdom have a foreign degree, not an English degree, but a foreign degree, as one of the greatest absorption forces. And it is also worth knowing that this process is typical throughout the world, because from Asia to Eastern Europe, to Russia, from Eastern Europe to Western Europe, from Western Europe to Northern Europe and from the richest countries to the United States, there is such a migration trend, which, as I said at the Commission's hearing, must be taken very seriously, because in some Eastern European countries the problem of security of supply has already been predicted. That is why it is very important that, when my fellow Members ask what can be done, what decisions will be made by the government and Parliament, the trend first turned around in 2012, and that was clearly due to government measures, since the number of people applying for official certificates has decreased, and this is linked to the start of residency grants, which provide the young doctors with net income of HUF 100,000 and net HUF 200,000. The most important thing for us is that we try to keep them at home, because there is a government option for this which is already operational, and therefore a draft legislation on the extension of the residency scholarship system will be presented to the government, which provides the possibility of a scholarship to all medical graduates in Hungary. This could mean virtually 100 percent coverage. I would just like to note that 1700 young doctors are currently receiving such scholarships, which are of roughly the same magnitude as the number of doctors missing from the Hungarian system at present. So I would like to ask you to support this, and also to vote in favour of these legislation, because it seems that the extension of the system, the wage arrangement of healthcare workers, will bring them the initial but encouraging results in this important problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-68	Thank you, too. Now it's time for another Secretary of State of the Government, Mr. István Nagy, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-69	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I will try to say what I would like to say very quickly, because we have a time limit. I think it is obvious that we are talking about a very important problem today. Blaming one side or the other would be the easiest thing to do, but then we'd go very wrong. I think that all of us who are Members are responsible for what is happening today in Hungary, for what happened yesterday and for what will happen tomorrow. Allow me to reject László Teleki's words, that the government is doing nothing, said Mr. Congressman, and gave some examples. Let me say the opposite, because the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has programs that bring home scientists, bringing home teams to complete their research programmes here in Hungary. There are many successes in the field of scientific life about bringing our researchers and scientists home, and with respect for income, they can put their scientific achievements here. My fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs spoke about the fact that the government does not have a programme to support rural strength and a role that preserves the countryside. I believe that there are a number of partial measures, whether by transforming the ownership system, not by supporting the large estate system, but by supporting the status of employees in agriculture, but by supporting ownership status. It is precisely the creation of small estates, the land that we can give to public rents that all serve to stay in the countryside, to become owners of that area, to work with a view to finding a meaningful future and a meaningful purpose. These measures are all a little bit of a slice to help one person find his progress in Hungary, and make sense to stay, so that we can reduce the proportion of workers working abroad and then make an alternative, which is also a shared responsibility to come home and find their options at home. This is why the Hungarian Government is working, and it is not true, and I would like to refuse that the government is doing nothing. It does, but it is not yet able to fully satisfy itself to bring everyone home, with separate programs, but it has started, in detail, in the process of these events. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-70	Thank you very much. We're back in a two-minute circle. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although it is difficult to react to something when those who spoke to me have left the room. At least Congressman Sallai R. Benedek is here. I'd like to reject him, I hope it was just a slip of the word that the jazz example is a dead end. I know the examples of jazz in the field of job creation, it is an example, and I would also like to say that if someone doesn't find a job in his region, he would rather come to Jászság than abroad. Congressman Schiffer misunderstood me on a lot of things. I didn't say at all that he was giving a drug lecture. I said that every expression in this case is like a man who pretends to advertise drugs, but he's spreading them. It advertises, advertises, exults in its speech the opportunities of people living abroad, and this is dangerous in this regard, I think. Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély on his website, Member, advertises on his website that his husband had a job while working at the Kaba Sugar Factory. When he attacks Parliament here in Parliament, he attacks the Hungarian government, the Orbán government, that our children are going abroad because of the lack of employment and job creation. [[Dóra Dúró: How many sugar factories have you reopened?]] Then, for the first time in his own family, who has become unemployed thanks to the Gyurcsány government, perhaps he should be interpelled there. That's all I wanted to say. Congressman Schiffer called for an apology. Romeo used to apologize to Juliet. I'm not Romeo, and there are no Juliets here. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Demercation and interruptions from opposition benches.]]
u2014-12-03-72	The least I can do, Congressman, is ask you to recite your literary knowledge. However, we will now continue with the contributions of the speakers who have been announced, and I will give the floor to Mr István Tukacs first, MSZP. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2014-12-03-73	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I would like to advance the fact that there are Juliets, of course, Congressman, to be polite to the Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In the debate, the opposition represents that this problem is huge. On the government side, I see that they represent not so much trouble, but they still demand that we give solutions, since we consider it a very big problem that there are many who preferred to work further away from our country. I would like to deal with two things in this area, partly health and partly a very specific problem. With respect to the statements of the Secretary of State, which suggest extending a certain scholarship to keep all those who wish to leave health care as doctors at home, I must say that the solution is insufficient. Our other doctors, our professionals, they mention three cases that make them there. These three cases say that money, predictable working conditions and good healing conditions. What has happened so far in the case of pay in the health care sector seems to be not the solution, since our doctors, our professionals, are either going home unchanged or not coming home. In addition, there is a very specific problem, and I would consider it to be resolved, all the more so, because the wallet, I understand, is in dialogue with the prosecutor on this issue. It's about the gratitude money that poisons the relationship between the patient and the doctor and the doctor. It can't be sustained, and I'm talking specifically about pay, and the attraction of the career, that gratitude money distorts the situation where a doctor and doctor are, because it depends on who gets to him, where he sits in the food chain, and what kind of specialty he works. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, this problem must be discussed if we think that we want to take action on the issue of pay. I would not talk about working conditions; although investments in the EU are welcome to be remembered, in hospitals and healing institutions we do not have the experience that working conditions are good. Finally, the third time is predictability. Let me quote a news report. Fidesz would attract pensioners to the labour market, especially in deficit trades," said your spokesperson. Do you remember when doctors were bullied and bullied to retire, or if they don't go, they don't get a pension? Is that predictable? You were forced to do all kinds of magic in this case when you realized that it would cause a lot of trouble, so I think that you should be more thoughtful and careful about these matters. The Secretary of State of Tállai was happy to remember how much better it will be for GPs from 2015. Mr. Secretary, this one, or at least a gate. Secretary of State Sombor will be happy to give you a private session on the fact that the general practitioners are not the ones who want to go, because of their very specific relationship with the practice and the professional conditions. So let us not talk about this if we want to solve things in health care. Finally, I would like to say that if we say call words, let us tell the outside workers and the living that we give you the same rights as others. It is not a solution that the newly introduced citizen, our fellow citizen, can vote as easily as possible in a parliamentary election, and they have been made more difficult to give their opinion at all about the country to which we want to invite them home. If you are not afraid of them, because the Congresswoman said in her speech that you are not expressing an opinion against the government when you leave, then don't be afraid to give them the opportunity. Finally, my final sentence: if this topic is so important, decisive, let us say that it is a national matter, then why hasn't the national public service media today devoted time to finding out what is happening in this matter in the Hungarian Parliament? This is an outrage! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-74	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Gábor Zombor asked for the floor. Here.
u2014-12-03-75	Thank you very much. I'm glad we're talking about this because I started by saying that this is a very serious problem, and it requires cooperation and a lot of work to be done. Some clarification, just so the facts are clear again. Most of the people who apply for an official licence are residents of the primary care, so the Secretary of State works with good information. The other is that I did not begin with such an eight-year-old introduction. I said that it is apparent that this is a European trend that is affecting the countries of Eastern Europe, Central Europe, and will continue to hit it in the future, and what kind of government action can be taken against it, and I said that this is the result that in 2012 the trend that has been constantly rising since 2004 has stopped, broken, and there is a minimal reduction. I said that this should continue, because it seems that the wage structure and the scholarship system can achieve such positive effects. What political background we are putting into this is the right of the Members' hearts, but these good trends are worth supporting and continuing. I would like to continue to encourage you and us to do so. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-76	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that the party's attitude towards this issue is irresponsible. We have heard from the speakers here constantly that this problem does not exist, or that the opposition is the only one responsible for this and we are pissing people off, and some of their speakers have even gone so far as to say how good it is for us oppositionists to live abroad and even encourage people to leave Hungary. I think that it would be the right attitude on the part of a responsible party of government to face this trend and to start talking about the proposals for solutions while establishing responsibility. A significant part of these problems are human problems. One of the hardest decisions of a family, a man's life is that he goes abroad for a longer or shorter period, perhaps, for many people, it is possible that he will set up his life there, work there, and there are more and more people who are having their children, having a family there, or following them, and taking their children away from Hungary. This is a very serious problem that we must take seriously, because, as in our electoral programme, we believed that demographic trends are Hungary's most important problems, this makes this problem worse. I would like to talk about things that do not affect the financial part of this issue. Several people here talked about how we can connect these people to Hungary at the level of words. I think that one of the most important such links can be the substantive guarantee of suffrage for people who leave Hungary out of compulsion, not out of their own good intentions, not out of curiosity. On the other hand, we see that by administrative means, the possibility of participating in the elections has been reduced to very low levels for people living in Western Europe or on the American continent. I think that this is a mistake, and we must do this to correct it, as soon as possible in the next elections in 2018. If we say that this is a national parliament, then we should not only think of Hungarians across the border, but also of economic refugees who have forced themselves to leave their country. Another very important link can be, I think, the cohesion of our culture, and in particular, I hope that we will have a last resort to language, the Hungarian language, which can connect these people across generations. On the other hand, what do we see? Although the government established the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy under the auspices of the Prime Minister's Office, at its conference about a month ago, one speaker described the fact that it does not exist as a mother tongue. In a previous writing, this man described the language, the mother tongue, as practically a hotbed of racism. [[13.50]] And I think it is not a question of money that, within the framework of the Hungarian Institute for Language Strategy, this is not the approach that the government should support. It is not a question of money to allow genuine native speakers to attend these conferences and of emphasising their opportunities, the solidarity of the mother tongue. This would be the language policy and cultural policy that would link these people to Hungary, and we will raise our national pride, of which I believe our Hungarian is also a symbol of belonging. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-12-03-78	Thank you very much. Secretary Robert Répássy, please.
u2014-12-03-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only like to ask for a very brief statement because I would like to draw the attention of Mr Tukacs to a common mistake that he has just made here. The conditions for voting for Hungarian citizens residing abroad have not changed, and they can vote exactly as they did before, since the vote at foreign representations existed in Hungary. The same rules are also applicable to the voting of persons who have acquired Hungarian nationality by naturalisation: if they are abroad, they can vote at foreign representations. The persons you are talking about are those who do not have a permanent residence in Hungary, but they are not the emigrated Hungarians, because they have never migrated to Hungary. They are Hungarian citizens who did not have permanent residence in Hungary, which is why they vote abroad. So bringing this whole problem here is entirely wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-80	Here comes Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2014-12-03-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to a few things from our limited time frame. First of all, Congressman Pócs, if I may say so, I would say that, yes, it is partly a misunderstanding that I was able to understand. I love jasian people very much, I see a lot of positive examples; the problem is that then I will be happy, and then I will consider it a totally positive example that if the Lehel machine factory is back in Hungarian hands; if our industrial production and large investments and large employees are exclusive again in Hungarian hands, then we can talk about this in order to be fully positive. In speaking to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, I wanted to respond to a few things, because I think some things are simply because we see things differently, so we look at them from a different angle and are completely on the ground of constructive dialogue. They keep their identities, people. I recently had the pleasure of being in one of those foreign houses in Hungary, where there are only those people who make a Hungarian house and buy it together to preserve it because they know they don't want to move back home. This is not necessarily a sign that if they make a Hungarian house somewhere, they will want to come home sometime. As a positive example, it was mentioned that money was sent home, a good opportunity. Please, your relatives cannot finance their lives in Hungary, they cannot pay their loans! How is that a positive way to show that it's a good thing? Excuse me, we're looking at this from a different angle. So this is a regrettable fact that Hungarian citizens, who work at home, cannot make a living on wages, and they need their relatives who are leaving. And it's almost natural to send a family member abroad in the countryside to make a living. And that's the trend we're talking about. Similarly, you were able to say how good it was, thank them for learning language. Please don't mess with the two language schools like they're doing right now. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You don't have to close high school like what you're doing right now. It must be created...
u2014-12-03-82	Congressman, choose your words. [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and Jobbik: This is allowed! That's what they say!]] Express your opinion in such a way that it complies with house rules and respect.
u2014-12-03-83	My apologies, Mr. President. I apologize. I've been careless. So, in practice, if Hungarian public education could give everyone the opportunity to learn languages, then there would be no need for them to learn language outside. And one more thing that we see quite differently, let me draw attention to. You also liked to say that they did not choose unemployment. The sad fact is that most of those who go out do not go out of unemployment, but go out of highly qualified, highly qualified jobs because they create better conditions. It is not that the unemployed professional worker has been trying for two years, but that we cannot fill the practice of general practitioners in the countryside; that people in rural areas who are retired are treating them because there are no young people who want to come to a settlement of less than ten thousand people to practice such a practice. So we see these in a completely different way. And it's not because we're oppositionists, it's because we're looking at this country from a different perspective. The words that are most often spoken, which must be taken into account, are frustration, hopelessness, hopelessness, and the vast majority of people are carried abroad, and it is not the desire for adventure, and it is not the need to learn a language, but the need not to see the possibility. I do not feel that the Fidesz administration is responsible for this 100%, but I do feel that you now have a historical role in facing this responsibility and taking action against it. I have agreed with many of Mr Ander Balázs' thoughts. You mentioned that 80-90 thousand forints of wages can't be earned, and they go out to make more wages. The amazing thing is that even in the entrepreneurial sector, business creation, everything is easier out there. It is also easier to start a business in Austria and create the possibility of a small and medium-sized enterprise. Not only the entrepreneurial sector, but the initiative sector that could be the engine of the Hungarian economy also goes out because it finds easier conditions outside, and this is a serious problem. My fellow Member, István Ikotity, responded partly to the thoughts of Member Jenő Manninger. Yes, I fully agree that it is a very, very weak argument that it is even worse elsewhere, that there is even greater emigration from Romania or that there are European countries. So obviously we should not start from this, but from where we are going, where we want to belong, and what society we imagine. At the time, those who read Jókai as a compulsory reading know the period that was typical of the Reform Age, when Hungary's wealthy aristocracy, capitalists, thinkers went to Paris and London and actually returned home, because the estate was home, it was home that created their background. Now, a large part of those who have gone out no longer have anything, no agricultural land, no family home, no job for him to come home to. Most of them are looking at how they can get the family out. This is the responsibility that we have to face, and that is what we need to find a solution to. And when we are looking for a solution, the budget is a typical example of the fact that, if this problem is important to you, which items in the budget are those that serve this purpose. If we build two more stadiums, how many people will come home? If we capitalize on one of these banks, how many people will come home? What is the measure that will serve the purpose of attracting people home? Because that's what we miss, and that's what we're looking for, both in your speech, in the budget and in the legislative work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]]
u2014-12-03-84	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gyopáros Alpár, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In response to Mr Teleki's words, allow me to say that - apart from the year 2011 and the anniversary of 2011-2012 - the number of Hungarians working abroad did not increase annually as compared to the previous years. This is true for the past few years. Obviously, the reason for this is what I think Mr János Pócs has summarised very nicely in his speech. But speaking of solutions, I think Congressman Sallai is looking in the right place. I agree that employment is indeed the number one solution, and I am talking not only about an increase in the number of jobs, but also about the simultaneous rise in wage levels, i.e. a rise in wage levels in a hopeful parallel. This is why what you have been informed about for months has also been said here among the walls of the House, and in the press we have repeatedly said that in the next programming period more than HUF 4,000 billion will be added to the Hungarian economy, typically for job creation and ancillary programmes. [[Dóra Dúró's intervention.]] 4,000 billion forints. We are talking primarily about small and medium-sized enterprises, dear Mrs Dúró. In this connection, allow me to reject the expression of Congresswoman Demeter, who said for the public work programme that this would be a slave's work. Dear Congresswoman, You have either not been informed, or you have only been informed about the wrong examples. Let me tell you that the Public Works Programme is not merely useful, the Public Works Programme - I have said this several times, and I will continue to say it as many times as possible. [[Dóra Dúró's intervention.]] I'm not just talking about the Csorna, dear Congresswoman Dúró. We're having a very good conversation, by the way, but it's just that I'm the only one who got the floor from the President, and you're not. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. , Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP: Time! Sit down.]] You'll allow me, Mr. President, to finish this sentence, right, because I had to react. Employees in the public works programme create value, and it is not true that there is no transition to the market world. It's an existing process...
u2014-12-03-86	That's it. Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-88	István Tukacs is next. You have two minutes. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2014-12-03-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State Répássy says nothing less than that there is a distinction between Hungarian and Hungarian citizens, their opportunities and their rights [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No, I said there's no difference!]] according to whether he is abroad, he is in Hungary, whether he has a permanent residence or not. Mr. Secretary, this is what I'm talking about. It is not an equal right and an opportunity for someone to vote in a letter, for someone else who is also a Hungarian citizen, to get tired from Cardiff to London, if he has enough time, if he is released, and if he has the money. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. [[14.00]]
u2014-12-03-90	Secretary of State Répássy, here you go.
u2014-12-03-91	Congressman Tukacs, what you said was great. It's too bad it was like that when you were steering. Thank you very much. [[István Tukacs: It wasn't like that! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-03-92	We'll continue the two-minute lap. Member István Ikotity, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-93	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to make an addition. They made it clear to me that taking the role of education so important was ambiguous. I think it is very important, by way of example, that it is by no means, because we consider the whole current migration problem to be a symptom, not a disease, and we think that the solution is therefore not to treat the symptom, but to treat the disease itself. Education is not a medicine for a patient, but it is obviously the beginning of eating healthy, showing an example. In fact, this is not enough, but it is absolutely necessary. After all, despite the fact that anyone would consume any medicine, it would not replace healthy and basically complete nutrition. So that's why we think that education has an essential and inevitable role to play here. This is entirely contrary to what we have heard from the Prime Minister when he was unable to interpret what is a knowledge-based society. He thought, and he asked me if we were thinking about people in white robes with glasses when we were talking about it. It would be very important for the Prime Minister to be aware of this, and it would also be very important for him to see that in some way the opposite of a work-based society is a knowledge-based society. We want to make progress with our heads, with our knowledge, or with the work of our two hands, which is an executive work with a ribbon, which is the least valuable part of a production process in today's world. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-03-94	We will return to the speakers that have been announced. Next up is Congressman László Varga, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-03-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to participate in the debate between Secretary of State Répássy and István Tukacs, but I will do so for a very short time. What you have said is very important. There are so many cases where legislation is very quickly drawn up, so many things are being cheated across Parliament by a two-thirds majority. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that this debate is about the fact that there is a social problem, a very serious social problem in Hungary. More and more people work abroad, including people who do this not on their own, but for their livelihoods. There are hundreds of thousands of them. Many do not even officially indicate this, many are not in the sight of the Hungarian state. However, I would like to say that you have an opinion on what has happened in the last five years, because of what my fellow Member Tukacs has said. Make it possible for them, make the right to choose easier, make it easier for them, even by letter, to vote. They didn't do that. That's what he said. Although some of the members of the government, including István Nagy Secretary of State, have tried to speak calmly on the subject, I still feel that some of the members of the government have not been faced with. On the one hand, you've been ruling for five years, you would have had countless means to deal with this problem and reverse it. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 12 October, after the municipal election, more and more people are faced with the real content of your policy. There is quite a public uproar about this, and many are even more disillusioned with their prospects in Hungary today. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, our lead speaker, also said critically about the last years of the previous government. I will do the same, because obviously, because of the crisis in the world economy in 2008 and for other reasons, indeed, the number of people working abroad has started to increase. But it wasn't nearly as large as it is now. This process has accelerated and reached amazing proportions. By the way, György Matolcsy himself spoke about this, so you did not hide this question either. György Matolcsy has put the number of Hungarians working abroad to half a million. As a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I can tell you that, indeed, this phenomenon did not start yesterday, not a few years ago, but at first it was mostly one of the parents who was forced to maintain his family in this way and to work abroad. Where appropriate, single young people have tried their luck on their own or coercion abroad, but this process has deepened and accelerated. A lot of people have started families out there, or they've been taking their kids after them in the last few years. It appeared in Miskolc, Borsod County, and I imagine that in other counties in the country, there is also a phenomenon that grandparents go out after families that no longer plan to come home. They're obviously going to take care of the kids, or just to be with their families. They don't plan on coming back most of the time. That's what needs to be changed. What should be changed so that this process doesn't go like this? They often say that we should make suggestions. Much has been said about employment policy. Fifteen percent of public workers have reduced job search support to less than 25 years of age and to three months, with a drastic reduction in minimum wage purchase value over the past four years. You have created a labour code that has damaged workers' rights, making the Hungarian workforce practically exploitable cheaply. A special system of wages has been created that has dramatically increased the number of people who are unable to generate the income needed for the minimum of living from 8 hours a day's work. This is unacceptable, honourable government representatives! I would like to suggest that, in this cycle, we will make sure that those who work in this country for eight hours at least achieve the minimum living age, at least the minimum living income. Let there be no situation in this country that the minimum wage is nowhere near that. This would be an important political goal. This should serve the tax system and the system of contributions; I think that we could definitely move forward. Clearly, it would be important for the public sector to have a comprehensive wage arrangement at last. Real job creation and indeed support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, it is important, especially on this public issue, that there should be public peace on this subject, not constantly pointing back at previous governments, but that we should finally face this situation and really try to make joint decisions for the benefit of those involved. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-96	Congressman Zsolt Egyed is next, Jobbik.
u2014-12-03-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I heard all kinds of data, all kinds of numbers, all kinds of references from my fellow Members. At the end of last week, I had the pleasure of visiting my brother in West Austria, who has also been an economic refugee in Austria for years. I met the Hungarians who lived there. It must be said that there is a very close Hungarian community around Innsbruck. On one thing everyone agrees: unfortunately, none of them want to come home, which was revealed during the conversation. They're not thinking of coming home, they're thinking of buying real estate instead of their apartments there. Ladies and gentlemen, You have to think about it, and it's obvious to everyone that these people, in their 30-40s, are raising little children or a little bigger children. These kids go to school there, these kids make friends there, these parents go undercover, these people can't be brought home right now, as they stand. The other is very important, which, in addition to economic issues and the issue of livelihoods, has been highlighted, for example, by people from Eastern Hungary, by the fact that North-East Hungary has become unlivable, there is no life security, no public security. But they don't want anything big, they want to live a life that they found there. These things are in the same shoes in such a way that where there is no job, there will eventually be no public security, there will be nothing. Now I could bring up the example of Ozd, where people between the ages of 20 and 35, people who want to work and prevail, have practically disappeared from the city because they have no livelihood. Going to a multi-assemble plant for 80,000 forints is not a perspective. I didn't even tell you about the villages, because from there, young people would have one path left, if they didn't want to be public workers, the fact that they would better go to a larger Hungarian city, and in worse cases they would find their calculation abroad. [[14.10]] And I would recommend, ladies and gentlemen, that, for consideration, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made a statement in the past that Gypsyism is a hidden resource of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, These people are hidden resources, who are well-trained, where appropriate, university graduates, live abroad, and do not plan to return home. I would ask the government and ask all my honourable fellow Members to start thinking about this, and we should start working on it, so that these people will find their calculation here in Hungary, otherwise there will be a vision before Hungary, where there will be a layer of people who does not want to work, and there will be a layer of people who should be retired long ago, but there will be no one to look for their pension. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-98	Thank you, too. It's a two-minute lap. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, please.
u2014-12-03-99	Thank you very much. I am very lucky to be able to speak right now, because I wanted to continue with the thoughts of Congressman Egyed. If the title of the agenda is that it is about possible solutions to halt the process, then the government could, in fact, be summarised very briefly. After all, all you have to do is move to Western Europe, create the same public security, create the same standard of health care and earn a little more at home than you earn there. And if the government develops an economy that creates the background, they'll be able to come home and call people home. That's all you have to do. To this end, tax laws, legislation and aid policy should be made available. [[Noise.]] [[Noise.]] As long as these three most important instruments in the hands of the government are not for this purpose, we will experience what the Member has said: they do not want to come home. (Noise) Basically, by nature, man must decide on his own interests, which can also be values, and he has the chance to represent these values if every living condition in Hungary is more favourable and better. This is what governance needs: tax policy, support policy and legislative background. That's all there is to change, and they'll come home. I wish you good work on this. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-100	Thank you very much. Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP!
u2014-12-03-101	Dear House, I would like to respond once again to the opinion of the Secretary of State, Gábor Zombor, who is unfortunately no longer here, and their discussion with Mr Répássy has proved to be a more important topic. He says that he does not need to talk to Mr Tállai, because it is GP residents who, on a pro rata basis, ask that they be able to work abroad, and therefore his claim is not correct, according to which a possible improvement in the conditions of GP practices would be a solution. Mr. Secretary, you've forgotten something. Most of the time, it's the GP residents. They're the least of them. Most people are specialists because they're not attractive to the GP, but it's a different story. The reason why I wanted to say this is because I believe that my statement is correct, that a general practitioner does not want to go abroad to work, so it is not an argument that if we help them, this could be some sort of solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-102	Thank you very much. We will return to the speakers that have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2014-12-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When talking about the causes of migration from Hungary and the possible solution to halting the process in the Hungarian Parliament, it is a fundamental requirement, as Prime Minister said in one of the debates, that we should be honest. In contrast to the propaganda that you were printing here before the election, you announced 5,000 billboards that Hungary is doing better, this eloquent proof that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian, active and most creative workers voted with their feet and went to work for another part of Europe. So it would be good for you to face the proposals made by the opposition here in this House, rather than propaganda governance, instead of communication governance, to be more receptive to criticisms that come not only from us, they come from demonstrators, we just give them a voice here in Parliament. One of them says on one of the signs that we can't tax as much as you steal. So if you want to balance economic prospects with your statistics, you need to take into account the public perception among the people who are now working on a more developed half of Europe. If you just look at the Duna TV documentary series - say it's night, you can see it after 11:00 p.m. - where people who are forced to work in the West are talking, they say that it was even like coming home after two years of work, giving you six months, sending you nearly a thousand e-mails to various job ads, and you couldn't get a job in six months. So the economic environment that you are creating right now prefers community service, and in fact only in a narrow circle that you are moving for the sake of statistics. In fact, the economy cannot create an environment where workers are optimistic about the future, so that they can even keep their everyday life and their tomorrows safe. So when you say the results of the three election wins here in Parliament, because you have no other arguments, you have to be more modest. This nearly half a million people voted with their feet, hear their voices, and listen to what we say here in Parliament. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-104	Thank you very much. Congressman István Szávay is coming, Jobbik!
u2014-12-03-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It has been said several times that this situation, which has emerged, is not your responsibility, it is the joint responsibility of the governments that have so far been Regent. It is your responsibility, or much greater, to find a solution to this situation. It is a pity that Congressman Pócs is not here to read letters from those working abroad who are miserable. Let me read you a letter we received about the debate day. László wrote to us from Italy:. Homesick? Every day I remember how great it would be to live at home, to see my parents and friends. When I go home for a week, I'm not ashamed to admit that my eyes are tearing up on the way back. All my dreams would be to live at home. What would I need to go home? A liveable Hungary. I don't think it's too much to ask anyone who wants to work, and they can support their family. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I will put this at your heart, my fellow Members, as Congressman Pócs has done on another subject. Let me talk about one more thing. There was a debate about how easy it was for Hungarians to vote abroad. It is no easier than it was in your time, or no more difficult, Congressman Tukacs, I would like to say this, because there was no other way to vote under the MSZP governments. Two things have changed. On the one hand, the fact that the number of people involved has increased several times and, on the other hand, I would like to welcome this, is that you now consider this problem important and want to deal with it. I have some bad news for Secretary of State Répássy, who says that this is not an issue here, and there is nothing to do with that. Dear Secretary of State, may I draw your attention to the fact that, at the meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference two weeks ago, the final statement of the Permanent Conference on the proposal of Jobbik included a passage which states that the participants are asking the government, rather than asking the government, but asking for steps to be taken to facilitate the exercise of voting rights of those who are permanently absent from Hungary. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: True.]] This was supported by the governing parties and by the government - Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén - to take action in this regard. In England, all of Britain, you can vote only in London, and a Hungarian has to travel hundreds of kilometers to vote. In France, Austria, the situation is not better: in one place or another, but even in Germany, 80 million people, where the number of Hungarians living there is now over 100 thousand, can only be voted in two places. My fellow Members and I have tabled a proposal for a parliamentary decision, which, as stated in the final declaration of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, asks the Parliament to ask the Government to initiate a legislative amendment in order to allow Hungarian citizens who are resident in Hungary but who are abroad on the day of the vote to exercise their right to vote in a simpler way than the current legislation. Since Deputy Prime Minister Semyen was very proud of the great harmony that had developed at the Permanent Conference of Hungary, and everyone accepted the closing statement, we hope that this proposal will come before the House as soon as possible, and that the parties of government will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-106	Thank you, too. Mr Toukacs withdrew his two-minute request, so that we continue with the list of speakers announced in advance. Congressman István Apáti is next, Jobbik, here! [[14.20]]
u2014-12-03-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that lifelikeness is the standard of everything, and it is essential that a Member of Parliament does not get away from reality and does not get away from his constituents; be aware of the real situation of the country, rather than project an artificially generated dream world, a non-existent dream world, and make empty speeches about it. It would be much more sympathetic to the opposition's representatives, and I think it would also be to the public, if you were to face one of the most serious problems facing the country and the Hungarian society, if you were to say that, despite the two-thirds government of the last nearly five years, you could not achieve a successful outcome. They might have wanted it, wanted it, maybe it wasn't always bad, maybe it wasn't always negligence that led you to it, but unfortunately it wasn't possible to achieve serious trends, it wasn't even a success to emigration and to stop emigration. Dead, let's say, if only a fraction of a lot of unnecessary, overpriced, corruption-suspecting investments were spent on this noble purpose, it would already have its effect. Let me give you some examples of my narrower environment, the Satmar region. About 20 years ago, my hometown boasted about 5,500 inhabitants, now in Csenger perhaps 5,000 if they live. 20-25 years ago, Mátészalka had a population of over 20 thousand, and now the number of souls is around 17 200. I'll give you another example. When I finished my law studies at the University of Miskolc in 2001, about 210,000 people lived in the city, between 200,000 and 210 thousand people, and now, in good case, 167 thousand people live in this city on paper; but the number of people who actually stay there may be close to 140,000. No one's settled in there, except the nests. But let's leave it alone, I don't want to push it; we all know the facts about it. And what is the main reason for this situation? Not what is another problem is that more people die than we are born, this is not such a problem. The major difference, the dramatic change that took place in 20-25 years, is due to emigration. And while, in the second half of the 1990s, in the early 2000s, we saw that while Nyíregyháza, Debrecen, and perhaps Budapest, who migrated from the Satmár region had stopped, they had taken their course towards the western border, the situation was still divine, as they had migrated from the Satmár region, they had migrated from their birthplace, but at least remained within the borders of the country. We now see that they no longer stop at Debrecen, Budapest or the western border, but they are heading towards Western Europe or even towards the American continent. There are two main reasons for this migration, and you should be aware of that. One is the work problem. There's no job, or if there is, you can't make a decent living. Not only can you not save and build a future, but you can't even get enough of the salary that most people earn in the Satmar region. What about the villages? The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, if someone is unable to work in the local government or in one of the local government's institutions, and there is no family business in which they are worth working, worth having a job, they will be practically unemployed or they will have to work for totally degrading wages. I would like to suggest a solution to the other problem, and that is the problem of home creation and housing creation. In addition to unemployment and low incomes, creating a hopeless home is another great reason for emigration. My colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, referred to the fact that Jobbik is also thinking about building a flat and housing program, but we are also thinking about the development of a Socpol system that precisely aims to exploit at least 500,000 vacant properties. This would, by the way, be a powerful driving force in many ways. At the time of your first administration, you somehow knew with preferential housing loans that, somehow, you sensed that tax revenues, tax revenues and even construction could result in an upturn in the used housing market. For this reason, the purchase, renovation and expansion of used apartments would require socpol support of millions even after the first child. Because, by the way, 450 thousand plus 700 thousand HUF subsidies are ridiculously low even with the current printed real estate market prices. It cannot be bought, renovated or expanded. If we were to charge this, say, a stadium or two every year, there would be more chances for young people to stay here. 'Cause you can't expect to earn Western European wages all of a sudden, but if you don't have to be indebted for 30 years for a 50-square-square-meter flat or a small, 10-time-ten-yard family house, but you're gonna be able to stay here with a normal socpol, which, in addition, throws down the population, buy an apartment or a house, you're gonna have a better chance of staying here. I mean, you don't have to worry, you don't have to worry about the bank taking your own property off your head. If we could make progress at this point, it would be a huge step in itself. Much more than every government in the last 25 years can show on this issue. I would like to suggest this to you, I recommend this to you for consideration. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-108	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik!
u2014-12-03-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on statistical data, we can see that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the proportion of those planning long-term work abroad, and if we look at how the situation has turned out in practice, we can see that, taking into account the population and population of the countries in question, we are unfortunately in a leading position in terms of employment, whether in Britain or in Germany. This also includes the fact that young and middle - aged immigrants who choose this path, this opportunity, are largely not able to find their place of employment in accordance with their qualifications. You, ladies and gentlemen, are constantly talking about the fact that this country has a family-friendly government. By contrast, at the end of 2011, a new labour code was adopted that further increased the vulnerability of workers, for example in terms of working time. If a young couple, a husband and wife, if any, work for the same multinational company or similar company, it is not at all possible to say that they can have an adequate and harmonious family life. Several workers in Vas County multinational companies contacted me, told me what conditions and how much money they had to work under. They really live from month to month, they can't plan. Therefore, it is no coincidence that, over the past years, the process of being directed towards Austria has accelerated, at best, to commute and, in worse cases, to settle there in the long term, but this is also the case for those with a higher education degree. So they are economic refugees, and they are not leaving the country for adventure at all, as Viktor Orbán said. They need predictability and planning for economic operators, and Hungarians should provide decent working conditions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-110	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr László György Lukács. Here.
u2014-12-03-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At last, on the debate day initiated by Jobbik, we can discuss in more detail within the walls of this House what we have been hiding and hiding. The question is the emigration of health care workers, as this paralyzes the hospital, clinic, general health care, but it is also the dental and even the pharmaceutical system. Departure after underfunding is the most pressing top three issue in health care, perhaps the first of them. As President Gábor Vona said, nothing guarantees the operation of health care so far is more than the conscience and professional commitment of health workers, because lack of money and emigration are so suffocating that it is not exaggerating to say that we are at a critical point in care. It's hard to see emigration, and it's very accurate. In contrast to simplistic articles and demented data on statistics conducted by the Health Authorisation and Administration Office, what is worth seeing is exactly how many major doctors, dentists and professionals apply for a certificate of formal qualifications. Of course, the statistics also include those who already live abroad, but they are changing countries, or they also want to give recognition to their previous exams. So this distorts the existing image. On the other hand, statistics do not appear correctly in the newspapers because they forget to remove foreign citizens who are already using our country as a stepping stone, so their number should rightly be excluded from the emigrants, although their departure also shows that it is not attractive to work in Hungarian health care, even for those who come from poorer countries. Therefore, the correct interpretation of the statistics, such as in 2012, 1708 Hungarian citizens requested their official certificate, while 353 foreign nationals requested a similar issue. Thus, by reducing a certain number, it can be concluded that the correct number should be around 950. It is an interesting symptom anyway, and it is also important to note that the willingness of foreign healers to work in Hungary is also deteriorating. While in 2006 169 foreign doctors had their degrees registered for their work in Hungary, in 2010 only 35. Of course, statistics still show a terrible trend. The most recent statistical data for four years, from 2010 data, outlines the same ones that were already heard before, in general, in 2010 the total number of applicants was 1777, which showed a steady increase until 2012 and then decreased slightly to 2013. In terms of trends, the number of doctors was fluctuating, but increased to 1200 in 2010 compared to 1111 and then decreased to 955. The number of dentists increased steadily, little by little, and in 2012 the nurses stood up to the ratio of 536. [[14.30]] It is even worse to see those statistics that relate to gender distribution, as we can see here that, overall, women take advantage of the possibility of applying for their certificates, whereas men are dominant in the field of general doctors. Thus, it can be concluded that there are more male medical applicants overall, so that more male doctors can leave Hungary. But what can be behind it, and what are the solutions? Of course, emigration affects larger clinical centres, metropolitan hospitals and small hospitals in health professions differently. At this level, too, we see the country's Hungary as the loser, especially in small and medium-sized cities. The causes of emigration are clearly and clearly described in medical migration research. Such reasons may include: low pay, poor respect, difficult progress within the profession, low wages in the care sector, overworkedness, but also, unfortunately, a high reason for the deterioration of the quality of vocational training. I learned from my previous personal experience that each of the stated reasons is real, that the solution can be achieved by directing them. So the proposals for solutions are, in short, that the government must start the career model and solve vocational training properly. So we can say to the proposals for solutions: if you understand, you know what they're waiting for? How many more days of debate do we have to put into action? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-112	Thank you very much. Mr. Ádám Mirkóczki, the notary of the National Assembly, will follow. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has already been said, so I do not want or try not to repeat what my fellow Members have already said. On the other hand, I would like to start by suggesting that most of the pro-government representatives - respect for the exception, of course, because, thank God, they did - have more modesty. What some Members have allowed themselves today in this debate is more than enough! I would like to start with Secretary of State L. Simon László, who went to the point of disgustingness - perhaps many have not noticed - by banging his breasts in quotes and telling other Members that I have four children. What I can say is that I congratulate you, I am glad that you have four children from the grace of God, and I wish them a lot of strength, health, and many grandchildren. But let's finish this arrogant, pompous, cynical style by throwing it at another congressman, who, by the way, might not be able to do it for health reasons or for any other reason. When we talk about migration and demographic problems, I think that the government's position is perfectly reflected in this pattern, this behaviour, this statement, which some Members of State Secretary's office are allowing themselves. The fact that you are talking about the majority of your comments on the prognosis of success, bagatellization and transfer of responsibility, let me say quietly that, beyond the fact that you have been two-thirds majority here in Parliament for five years, you have been actively involved in the country's policy for 25 years. And don't be proud, as some have said, of wow, but it is good that we have this debate day, and we are actively participating in it! You should not have been involved in such a debate, but should have set up an ad hoc committee five years ago, drawn up specific programmes and implemented them. Because I don't have to tell you - and if you look at the budget, you see - that there's money in this country for everything that some members of the government tell you to have that there won't be, there won't be. So I would ask you for a little more humility, especially on such a serious issue, more humility. The fact that we say all this angryly, allow us to do so. I think it's our generation who's the most victim of this, and they're not going out of an adventure at all, but, yes, refugees. If you have to give status to these emigrated masses, they are either economic or social, but they are refugees, because, as we have said many times before, if there is work, there is everything, if there is no work, there is nothing. This country cannot live because we do not agree on policy issues such as these or other, but lack fundamentals. Among other things, I am referring to the saving power of the countryside when I say that there is no work. And in the meantime, it is possible to say how many billion and how many billion we are developing, and what investments have been made - but to what? Industrial quantities of decorative stones and square stones were laid across the country during the campaign period, industrial quantities of fountains were created from hundreds of millions of dollars, and perhaps even billions of dollars at national level. And how many jobs did this create? Or how many residences did you set up? Zero! But in a campaign, it sounds very good, and it can be very nicely summarized. Because in good times only internal migration takes place, but in worse cases they go abroad, and even if I think only of my high school classmates, a significant part of them no longer lives on this continent, and they are not in their right mind to come home. If we're talking about the size of the exodus and everyone's pointing back at the previous governments, then I'm just talking about my narrow Patria, just let me talk about Eger. Date 2011 and 2013. Do you know how much Eger's population has lost? Over 2,000 people. In two years, a county seat has lost 4 percent of its population, and this is not natural ageing. It's inanimate. And if we say that a city is unlivable, then we can't think of Eger, and I think that Eger is not in the forefront of the unlivable cities, yet he's lost two thousand. There's a reason for that. Of course there's a reason. There is no existential security, there is even uncertainty, public safety in ruins, infrastructure in ruins, housing is hopeless. And these young people don't go out because they like Paris, London, or Munich. They're going because they just don't have a choice. And believe me, if the terms were right, they'd come home. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-114	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For my part, I am pleased that this day of debate could have been created, and the House is finally more serious about Hungarian economic refugees, the hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who have been forced abroad and left their country for financial and living reasons. My fellow performers have already touched on a lot of topics, and I do not want to repeat them, so I would just like to talk about one harmful phenomenon very briefly. I am not saying that I miss the representatives of the Gyurcsány Party about the debate, and I am not surprised that they are not present, that this question is not important to them; they have repeatedly stated that they have been told that the stranger is the beautiful one, and that the Hungarian one is the hateful one. This is also demonstrated by the press conference recently held by the MEP of DK in Debrecen, and also touched on the issue of emigration, and here he was playing the strings of Hungarian and anti-nationalism. That is what I would like to draw attention to. This is the approach that must be banished from Hungarian politics. This MEP said on the issue of emigration as DK's solution: legal migration must be facilitated and illegal made legal. It is one thing that immigrants cause problems in certain places, whether in Debrecen or in Balassagyarmat, and this political fabric ignores this, but the fact that the important issue of emigration is not for a Hungarian political party to have hundreds of thousands of Hungarian immigrants come home, but rather for foreigners to come to Hungary and even illegal migration to be legal is totally unacceptable. This is the opinion of DK on population loss and migration. I believe that this must be rejected by all sound political forces and that this should not be identified. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-116	Here comes Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament. Here.
u2014-12-03-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With regard to government remarks, I would have only one sentence: I think that the most pressing issue of Hungarian fate should be spoken only honestly and responsibly, Mr Secretary of State, that is what I recommend to you. What I would like to talk about is a negative impact of emigration, a significant social cost that we rarely talk about, this is the depopulation of the Rural areas. We are hearing so much about rural development and territorial development in the context of the European Union programmes, so many beautiful words are said, but in fact the actions show the opposite. As to what the concept of territorial development is, allow me a quote from Professor Ivan Elijah. This is what it says: territorial development is a science which is intervening, changing the spatial structure of the economy and society in order to achieve certain goals. This is, in short, the concept of this discipline, its definition. Let us look at what has happened in Hungary in this regard. [[14.40]] What we need to see is if we only look at the settlement structure, that, despite virtually the historical storms, this settlement structure has remained the same in Hungary for a thousand years. We must say that only communism has caused a tragedy comparable to Trianon in the Hungarian settlement population, in the settlement structure, and it is very interesting to compare the activities of communism in this respect, and the activities of Fidesz, the current government. We're experiencing a surprising parallel. Let me give you a few examples in this regard. For example: during communism, violent co-operation; under Fidesz, NFA-dogs, support for oligarchs, non-exploration of pocket contracts. And what does that do? The Hungarian people are left without land. Let's keep moving. Under communism, districtisation, the creation of joint councils; under Fidesz, we see that joint municipal offices are being set up from a similar concept. What does it do? The public service is moving as far away from the Hungarian small man as possible, and the migration from the villages is moving towards the cities. In the case of communism, besides the construction of socialist cities, the conscious emptying and sentenceing of certain areas, such as farmland areas or border regions. What do we see in the case of Fidesz? What we see is that while there's money to build stadiums, small settlements are completely financially impossible. I told you this parallel list because they both cause the same thing. Communism has, in principle, caused an internal migration, an internal migration from the Iron Curtain and other political reasons, while in the present Hungary we experience internal migration in the same way, i.e. moving from villages to cities, but we also experience a significant number of migrations abroad. I started with consciousness. This kind of policy requires awareness. It's obviously in his background. So now I would ask Fidesz to confess: what is the purpose of emptying the Hungarian villages? We can summarize the solutions by creating jobs for a living and giving a living to the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-118	Thank you very much. Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-119	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, It is difficult to talk to me about today's agenda, this day of debate, because I tell you honestly and proudly, if it has to be this way, I have been a two-time economic refugee in the past period: in 1996, when the Bokros package arrived in Hungary with Lajos Bokros, it was the first time I was forced abroad, and with two children at home, one was two years old, and the other was only a few months old. From the conversations I have had so far, it has appeared that few of my fellow Members have obviously experienced it, or perhaps no one has experienced it personally, so it has not been said that when many people with families go out - because I would probably be talking about people with families who make up at least half of the current migrants, foreign workers, if not more, two thirds of them, because the masses of foreign exchange credentials are probably in the order of hundreds of thousands, and foreign currency loans are usually taken out by young people or young families who would like to find a living in Hungary, work here and be ordinary taxpayers of this country - well, please, the families who drink the most of this process. Families are torn apart because, if necessary, you have to stay away for several years, and this is very hard on these families. No one has said anything about this, and I think it's one of the biggest psychological burdens for migrants, for people with families who have to be out there, away from their families. And let everyone who has children think about how it feels not to see our sweet, dear children for months. Well, it's hard to say new things in the end, but I think I might be able to come up with another thought. First of all, I would like to say that the extent to which young Hungarians or people with families leave Hungary is very different within a country. This was already the case with Szabolcs County. Allow me one last piece of data. According to one survey, in 2012, 27 percent of young Hungarian high school students replied that they only imagine their future in Hungary. In the city of Heves, there was a large survey of 8 percent. Do you understand? So, in the case of an area in difficulty, only 8 percent of high school students thought that only in their own living environment, their own home, and not abroad, would imagine their future. So they speak for themselves. I think we need to look at this specifically and see why this is so. What's the main problem? Basically, foreign currency credit - that's why there are hundreds of thousands of people out there - unemployment and low earnings. Basically, these three issues need to be resolved. With the issue of foreign exchange credit, the current government has not done much, and now, with this forinting, it has probably put in the gate for a lot of people. I hope that there will be another change in this and that these foreign exchange credentials will not be fully pauper-botsed. With regard to low wages, we have already discussed the need for a new economic policy, which is based on the growth of Hungarian consumption, and, for example, the reduction of VAT, and I could say further, the reduction of contributions, because net wages do have to vary greatly. What can be done about unemployment? Obviously, we also need to use economic policy instruments here, but here I would certainly like to raise what I wanted to say, namely that we consider it a bad step - and we have said this a hundred times - to try to encourage older people and older people to work, whose health is much worse, if any, but at the same time the masses of young people in Hungary cannot work. Please, in Western Europe, early retirement was introduced in almost all countries in the 1970s, namely in the 1980s, so that young people could retire as soon as possible and get to work. By the way, just now, during the economic crisis, Angela Merkel herself raised the same thought. So the Jobbik programme point in the 2010 elections was not without reason that, as you have given women the opportunity to retire after 40 years of work, you will also get this, and thus young people will be able to find a place in Hungary. Believe me that this would be an important tool to keep young people at home and to solve this problem in part. I'm asking you to think further about what I've been able to talk about here for almost one minute and I've been able to raise it to you, because despite the economic situation, it could be a little improved, it could be worse, but I'm sure it won't change so quickly that no more tens of thousands of people have to go out, or even the hundreds of thousands currently out there are still out there. So I think that this suggestion is entirely justified by Jobbik. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-120	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's a two-minute lap. Congressman István Tukacs is first, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-03-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My first thought would be that when my fellow Members mention refugees, especially economic refugees, then the opposition's position on the issue of our fellow countrymen working abroad and elsewhere becomes very cryptic. I say that the opposite is loud, because let me refer back to the State Secretary's Expo, which was said almost six hours ago, where the Secretary of State, in the context of a large historical overview, was kind enough to say that, indeed, this is not a unique thing, because there has been such a thing in Hungarian history, when hundreds of thousands of our countrymen went out, I quote, to build the new world, that is to say, to America. This, my fellow Members, was not what it meant, but the lines of Attila József, that one and a half million of our people, not only from Hungary, but also from here, and not because he wished to build the new world, but because he simply did not want to starve to death. Therefore, I think that they should see the contrast between the opposition's position and its point of view and yours, who believe that building a new world outside is not such a tragedy. Well, it is. [[14.50]] But because I asked for the floor, that's what's next. I would like to call on the honourable secretary of state to reflect in their closing speech on the proposals made, in Hungarian, on what they want to incorporate, make it a law, make it a part of government work and what they do not. 'Cause if they didn't, what we did today was we had a good talk. Which, of course, is a good occupation, so from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Wednesday, but that is not the aim of the Hungarian Parliament. I therefore ask you to indicate at least what can and cannot be incorporated from the proposals that have been made. Of course, I am asking those undersecretaries who have followed the course of the debate in full today, and they know what has been said. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-122	Congressman Zsolt Nitrai, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-123	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to let you know that I'm going to be a little off our agenda, so I'm sorry, but I'm going to do it briefly, so I asked to speak in two minutes. And only because it was said here in this Chamber that I cannot leave behind as a Member of the Parliament of the city of Eger. Our fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki said that Eger is a viable city - we fully agree on that - but our fellow Member also said that Eger is a city where public safety is in ruins. This does not cover reality at all, as Eger's public safety situation has greatly improved, we are experiencing increased police presence in our city, and we have recently installed new surveillance cameras in the city. By the way, Heves County is ranked 16th in terms of the county's criminal infection, and when you started saying in the municipal election campaign that the city's public safety situation was wrong, you did it on the basis of incorrect indicators, and you took wrong indicators into account. I think Eger is a peaceful, lovable historical city. Thank you very much for your attention, and I am sorry that I deviated from the item on the agenda, but I think that it was absolutely important to emphasise this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-124	Honourable Congressman, The two apologies are fair, but I do not want to start a debate on our wonderful city, which we all like. This is also a call to Mr Mirkóczki, who indicated that he would like to speak in two minutes.
u2014-12-03-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, because of the shortness of time, I don't think about everything. I would like to respond in so much that my fellow Member Nyitrai misunderstood me. I didn't exactly put it that way, and I didn't quite mean that security in Eger was in ruins. But it keeps getting worse, it's enough to watch the weekend, and in one night, they tried to rape and rob three young women. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, during the two weeks of the municipal election campaign, the Alert Police were in large numbers in Eger's most vulnerable housing sites, they disappeared immediately after the day of the election. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-126	We will return to the list of speakers that have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman Novak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Allow me, as President of the National Assembly's Population Sub-Committee, to highlight the extent to which Hungarians leaving our country as economic and social refugees make a significant contribution to the major problem that we believe is the catastrophic demographic situation of our country. Many people are throwing problems here, even with extreme problems, and there is plenty of choice, and yet in our programme we dared to say that we think we are Hungary's biggest problem, and this is the loss of population in Hungary. According to a study published last December by the KSH Institute for Population Research, more than half of the 18-39-year-olds think about short-term or long-term emigration, which is a very serious statement, since obviously it doesn't occur in 10-year-old children or 70-year-old pensioners, but in those who could actually still do so, migrate, the majority of those who think so. Currently, Hungary is considered unlivable. And that is the responsibility of the governments of the last 24 years. Therefore, I am very pleased that on the initiative of Jobbik - specifically Gergely Farkas - a day of debate could develop. However, it's a little shady when Fidesz says they're very happy to talk about it here, because you didn't support it. However, there is a possibility that a debate may be held on a limited, limited time frame, on a limited occasion, but also on a opposition initiative. This has not yet been weeded out of the house rules. I don't want to give you ideas to deprive us of another right, but that's the only reason - let's make it clear to everyone - that this is a debate day. It is not because of your support that the public service television unfortunately does not convey this debate, nor did it transmit a minute of it, not even those fidesz speeches which may otherwise be more talkative than ours, because it is amazing how far away from reality they are. So I think that on my own Facebook page, I would rather not share what we have to say, but what many people have said here, for example, because they really speak for themselves about how you do not live in Hungarian reality. Of course, it hurts that, let alone the Prime Minister, but no member of the government has participated in this debate, and if it was considered so important, they could have done so. So it is a serious problem to lose population, because it is important for families to be created at home instead of fleeing abroad. This is why, for example, the state-supported home- and rental-building and purchase programme promoted so often by our policy-makers Dániel Z. Kárpát should be established. It would be extremely important, like the pension system, to make family support a follow-up to inflation, since then these support schemes would become predictable. However, while we cannot even talk about inflation monitoring, for example this year or next year - so we can say that family support is falling in real terms - let us not be surprised that the Hungarian people do not want to, they do not dare to start a family in Hungary, but unfortunately they are leaving Hungary to an increasing extent, which is the responsibility of the governments of the last 24 years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-128	Thank you very much. Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member, MSZP.
u2014-12-03-129	Thank you, Mr. President. I know that pro-government representatives cannot be persuaded of anything we say here in opposition. I'm just asking you to come with me to Hajdú-Bihar County every once in a while, get on the train at dawn on Monday and take it to Ferihegy, second class. It will be very instructive when we spend two hours on the second class on the train, and we talk to people who take off with large suitcases, and their destination is Ferihegy. It's educational. That's what I'm asking you to do. And of course, when my fellow Member, Tukacs, said that the government should respond to what has been said here today and make suggestions or say something about what the opposition has offered to the ruling party, then the secretary of state pointed out to each other that, well, who will now respond to it. This shows how seriously you take these debates seriously, or, as I said in my speech, that you are not taking the subject seriously. And that's the worst part about all this is that they don't take the subject seriously. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-130	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak, someone who belongs to a faction where there's still a time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate like that. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. State Secretary Czomba says yes. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Hungarian Parliament has brought a very important topic to us today. I say so because it is a very important topic because my colleague, Mr President Novák, is indeed right about the initiative of Jobbik, but this debate would not have been possible if the MPs had not supported this debate, and not double the timeframe for Jobbik to vote on it. [[First of Novak: It's in the rules of the house!]] The following is: I think that we have touched on a lot of topics today, almost all areas, employment, education policy, health care, and that is right, because the subject we are talking about today affects virtually all areas of life, not to a small extent. We should first of all clarify, as our fellow Member Gergely Farkas indicated, whether we should at all see whether we should treat it as a problem, if it is a problem, a serious problem or a less serious problem; so let us try to clean up a little with regard to migration. I tell you that there are times when there is a problem, and sometimes that is less of a problem. A minor problem is when someone decides to try himself as a young person or as an elderly person abroad and bring home the knowledge they have acquired. That's what we talk about. That's not a problem. That's not a problem. [[15.00]] The problem is that if someone experiences the fact that they have to leave Hungary, not as an opportunity, but as a compulsion, and we have a shared responsibility and responsibility in this regard, I think that this is where they appear most. In terms of numbers, I think it is important that we have made a lot of progress, because here we have heard hundreds of thousands to one million, and even one and a half million emigrants. Today, staying on the ground of reality, it seems we can agree that KSH sees 350 000 - unfortunately we do not know better than this, because statistics are not available - and it sees 100,000 people who are almost a year's migrants. We don't call it a migrant, they're primarily the commuters who live near the border. I would like to draw your fellow Members' attention to the fact that this number has increased from 51 thousand to 100 thousand from 2009 to 14, but this number has stagnated this year, and even since the second half of last year. So in Hungarian, we managed to stop a very important process in this regard. I'd like to draw your attention to one more important thing. The number of employees in Hungary is increasing more than unemployment is falling. Let's think about how that's possible. There are many reasons, but one of these reasons is that a lot of people are coming back. Statistics show, by the way, that the statistics from Germany also show that half of those who go out of the country will be back within a year because they will not find the calculation that they would have wanted in connection with migration. It's a very important problem. Here, Jobbik repeatedly tells us that in his program, he wrote it. I would like to draw Jobbik's attention to the fact that if you look at the 2006 Fidesz programme or even the 2002 Fidesz programme, then what about demography - non-governmental - is the situation. And you're right, the most serious problem, not one of the most serious problems, because if we can't achieve results in this case, by 2050, according to the KSH statistics, we have eight and a half million people within the borders. That would be a tragedy. That would be a tragedy, because from then on, our employment targets - the number of people employed around five million - would be lost in the fog. So this is an extremely serious problem, and it is no coincidence that in recent years the Hungarian government has taken so many measures through the family policy system that, while stopping the fall, the data show that we still have a lot to do in the matter of being able to offset or reverse demographic trends. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Another thing is that the problem is serious or not serious, and it may or may not be more serious, because the Western European countries welcome and await the skilled workers of Hungarian and Polish and Romanian countries - I could say all the other states - especially Eastern European states. At the moment, if we speak honestly, let's put the problem on the table, train doctors and nurses to the Scandinavian countries. As far as Germany is concerned, welders, construction-related skilled workers, butchers, practically as they finish - I was just in western Hungary, a complete class passed through Austria. In English, the problem is even more serious than what we may be experiencing at the moment, because if we adapt our vocational training system and our training system in general to the new structure, we still have to create the possibility of staying in parallel, because otherwise the brain drain will increase further, and there is no doubt about that, because it is apparent that there is a very serious problem in Western European countries, especially with regard to qualified people. What the government has done or what the government has done, the responsibility of the government at all times in the migration process, let only one sentence be allowed here. In Poland, migration is 9 percent, in Hungary, let's say, 3 percent. You don't think that the Polish government is doing its job three times worse than the Hungarian government, do you? So, on the basis of such mirror data, it is not possible to judge the work of a government. It can be judged whether he is idly watching the processes or doing something about it. You have also indicated what are the serious problems. He's got a wage problem, a job problem. In these, we obviously agree, and it was not by accident that the government put job creation, employment expansion and unemployment reduction on top of the flag in 2010. Perhaps we have achieved one of the most in this case in recent years. Of course, we are far from where we say and emphasize it, and we are where we want to be. What would have happened if the government had been idly watching the process is a hypothetical assumption. It is difficult to answer, but I think that it is clear that the situation would be worse from a migration point of view. I believe that prevention is the primary solution here, and that, as in general, in medicine, we can achieve results if we look at how we can prevent this or how we can keep the vast majority of Hungarian workers in Hungary. Has the government done anything to do with this? Let me just give you the headlines, I don't want to waste time, and I'm focusing on the young people here in the first place. In Hungary, 16 thousand young people under the age of 25 are still working under the title of the first job guarantee programme. The point of this program was that if the employer is willing to employ someone, we will take over a very significant part of his salary and contributions for 4 months, and now for 6 months, so that he can get the job experience, what he is always asked to do, and find opportunities within the borders. We helped young people become entrepreneurs once for HUF 8.5 billion, then for another HUF 1 billion in the Central Hungary region. We have started internships, not for nothing, as those who graduate in vocational secondary schools and vocational schools and do not immediately find jobs should have the opportunity to acquire work experience with the employer where they had previously been under a study contract for a year; we have planned and planned the involvement of 4 to 6 thousand young people here as well. Here the Youth Guarantee Programme was said, my colleague Bernadett Szél indicated why the Hungarian Government is delaying, why the Hungarian Government is idle, because it is such a great programme, the Union has decided that young people can be placed within four months. I would like to tell my fellow Member, on the one hand, that the programme has been launched, and, on the other hand, more importantly, that it does not work by giving a recipe to the Union, and on the basis of the recipe, we will go through points and check out the tasks, but each EU Member State must find solutions itself to fill this with content. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we did not wait for the Union to fire this start gun, but in previous years, as I mentioned earlier, through various programmes, we specifically wanted to help this layer, because we saw that around 2011 the unemployment rate of young people under the age of 25 in Hungary was 28.7 percent, almost 30 percent. Currently, according to the latest statistics, 19,3. My fellow Members, I would therefore like at least to see what the Government has actually done, and not only its data but also its actual results, but also its results, and we would not dispute it. The role of community service. The public service has come up again, it's good, it's good, it's good, it's not bad, but we're spending a lot of money on it, it's in a lot of places. I would like to ask you to decide, at last, what is the specific position of the opposition on public employment. We have said that people in areas, areas where the competition sphere is absent and that we have to decide whether to give people aid or to give them jobs and wages through public employment, we have said that this is not a question for us. That this costs more to the Hungarian government or to Hungarian taxpayers? Sure. After all, the allowance is HUF 22 800, and the minimum wage for public employment is HUF 51,000 net. Sure. But it is not only fiscal issues that need to be put on the table, but it also has much more important social policy and other importance. They are right about the public employment issue, that if the programme goes too well, and the competition sphere may complain that it cannot find a workforce because everyone is in public employment, such sentences must not be said, so we must pay attention to this. But there is no question that public employment has a role and significance. Congressman Schiffer here has indicated some of the things about the figures, but he's not here, so I don't want to refer to it. What's the solution? Obviously - this has also been said today - we need decent wages on the Hungarian labour market. [[15.10]] This morning we were discussing the minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage, and, obviously, as in previous years, serious debates are taking place in this regard, but it may be worth noting that once again what our predecessors have done, that wages are raised without performance and that we are trying to be big and strong on credit, this policy must be stopped. We stopped doing this around 2010, which is why we have transformed our tax system, and that is why we have transformed many other legislation, social and labour law, which affects this direction. Of course, it would be important, it would be necessary, but if the question is whether we can keep up with German real wages or French or Scandinavian real wages and whether we should be based on it as a line measure, then I would say, certainly not even in the next few decades. So this is not only a question of wage policy, but also of many other important issues. What does it take to get jobs? A stable and improving economic environment. It is no coincidence that the Hungarian government intends to devote 60% of the most energy, of the next 7 years of EU resources, specifically to economic development and economic recovery, because without it there is no lasting job creation. There is no doubt that this does not come in parallel with each other, so economic development can be carried out in such a way as to increase GDP by 4-5 percent, otherwise there is almost nothing visible in employment expansion. We have an example of this around 2005, 2006, 2007, and let's look at the figures from then on. Another very important area is training, training in general, higher education and, if I may, I would focus on vocational training and basic public education for two sentences. Is it true in Hungary that if a regular person is looking for a good cooler, looking for an electrician, looking for a household mechanic, he finds it very difficult to find a large unemployment. Most likely now, who might listen to us or see us somewhere, at some point, you will say that you really do. Businesses have similar problems. We've just been to Szombathely. The thing is, there is 2.8 percent unemployment in Szombathely, but I could say Győr and Székesfehérvár and several other areas. The thing is, they can't find any workers, not from the city, they can't find a 50-mile radius. So inside the house, I quote, there are very serious problems within the borders, in which employment policy has very important tasks in the coming years. So that Greece and Austria are both at the same time in unemployment, Borsod, Szabolcs, Nógrád or the southern part of Baranya, there is about 20 percent unemployment, and we really need to be able to work there, so we really need to deal with these imbalances. It has just been said whether the government is doing something for the countryside. I would like to see the sources of the SME sector... - if you observe where jobs have been created in the next period and in the past period, and in what way we have supported it, and why we have only been familiar with the concept of a free business zone since 2011 and why it has not been during previous cycles, then I think they will also highlight the objectives of the Hungarian government. There have been various specific questions, comments, proposals. Of course, in this cross-section, which I have just mentioned, job creation, employment expansion, this is one of the most important remedies - I quote - for the migration process that we are talking about, since in the vast majority of young people are primarily affected by this problem. In this we must do more and more effectively than ever, so we plan, as I have already said, to concentrate the vast majority of resources on development, and it is not true... - it was true in the previous period that the previous governments poured the various resources into concrete fountains. This is not the case at all in the current cycle, as shown by the figure that 60 percent of all resources will be devoted specifically to job creation or economic development. The State Secretariat has developed a number of programmes in recent years. Here the most important thing is to try to deal with the problem locally, and to keep young people who might be thinking in it at the moment; thank God, statistics on how many people think and how many people actually leave the country, there is a difference of magnitude, but there is no doubt that we should focus here on job creation, employment, but we also have to start with those who are now abroad, and a number of labour market needs, a number of companies that may not be able to fill the job with a suitable worker for months, half a year or a year. Here we are, I think we have a job to do, briefly, concisely. This task has also been taken on by the State Secretariat, and we are trying to use all kinds of methods, with the possibility of helping young people working abroad, if they see an adequate job opportunity and welcome them here with open arms, because if that kind of education and knowledge is needed, then demand and supply will meet. Overall, I therefore think that perhaps the most important message, as I mentioned earlier, is that foreign work should not be forced, but an opportunity for Hungarian people, whether for young people or for old people. If that is the case, then we will, in effect, achieve the goal that we are now having on this day of debate, I think that the authors would also have liked us to negotiate, talk about this problem, revisit it to the depth that we can speak in this circle. And we also agree that obviously there must be conditions at home that make it worthwhile to come home. I ask, and I wish that we all work together on this in the years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms until closure. Antal Rogán, István Németh Szilárd Fidesz MEPs' own motion H/2117. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the National Assembly Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the most important and most used elements of the national emblem is the national flag, the Hungarian coat of arms and the Holy Crown, which is also respected in the national creed. The flag and its use are also provided for by the Fundamental Law of Hungary. In addition to the three-colored flag used today, the selection of historical flags has also become part of the Hungarian national emblem. During the inaugural session of the Parliament, we will take faith and swear before the election of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the House of Árpád, seven times the so-called Arpad-band flag, or even before the battles of the black army of our King Matthias, to the Hungarian country and to the service of our nation. However, no commemorative day or celebration of our flag and Hungarian coat of arms is included in our calendars, which is why we thought of the 23rd March of the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, the 21st of 1848. the date of drafting and adoption of an article of law, as referred to in the original proposal for a decision. Let's see what this piece of the law was about. Act of 1848 on the national colour and the coat of arms of the country. 1. §. The coat of arms of national color and country will be restored to its ancient rights. 2. §. Therefore, the three-colored rose, reclaimed on a bourgeois symbol, is also found to be used in all public buildings and public institutions at all public holidays and on all Hungarian ships by the national flag and country crests. Furthermore, leaving the related parts free to use their own colours and coat of arms alongside the colors and coat of arms of the country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's what XXI said. It's an article of the law. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, A few days after the proposal for a resolution was submitted, I received a letter from Mrs Lászlóné Halina Csúcs, the Polish minority spokesperson. In this he informed me that they had come to know that we were planning to introduce the day of the Hungarian flag on 23 March. He wrote that this is very sensitive to the Polish nationality of Hungary in two respects. On the one hand, we have been celebrating the Hungarian-Polish friendship day together for eight years on 23 March, taking turns every year in Poland and Hungary. This day was passed by law by the Parliaments of both nations. They believe that setting the day of the Hungarian flag on this date would reduce the opportunity to celebrate the day of Hungarian-Polish friendship. On the other hand, the Poles living in Hungary would also like to celebrate in a worthy manner the important and uplifting event of their second country, as they consider the day of the Hungarian flag. Therefore, they ask us to change the date of the Hungarian flag. The speaker, who has been particularly esteemed and respected by me, will also report that the day of the flag of the Republic of Poland will be celebrated at home on 2 May. The aim of the Polish holiday, which almost coincides with the Hungarians' goals, is to promote knowledge of Polish history, the Polish flag and national symbols to strengthen national consciousness, as the colors of the national flag are among the most important symbols of national self-awareness. The Polish flag day's mission is to arouse patriotic emotions, to develop patriot behaviour. The flag is the united force of the nation, which connects Polish young and old people, the entire Polish society. 'Mrs. Halina,' said Mrs. Halina in her letter. The date of the holiday wasn't random for them either. On 2 May 1944, the Polish army, Kościuszko's division, set a Polish flag in Berlin on the column of Reichstagon and Victory, and later, in the time of the Polish People's Republic, the bannering of flags after the Marches of 1 May was binding, so that the next day would not shine on the celebration of the Constitution of 3 May, which was abolished by the Communist power. Dear Parliament, Stanisław Worcell wrote in 1849 about the relationship of the two brothers. Hungary and Poland have two eternal oaks that have grown a separate strain, but their roots run far underground, are connected and invisibly intertwined. Therefore, the existence and strength of one is a condition of another's life and health. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the quote, it is no coincidence that we not only listened to it, but also understood the request and advice of our Polish brothers, and therefore we initiated an amendment to make it not the day of the Hungarian flag and crest on 23 March. In view of the fact that the three-colored Hungarian national flag - red-white-green - currently used in horizontal bands is the XVIII. It was used and adopted at the end of the century and during the 1849-49 Revolution and War of Independence, and in the national celebrations, a new date close to the spring holiday may be appropriate for the setting of the flag day. Dear Parliament, Because of this, several dates have been examined. Please allow me to explain these briefly to you. Based on the events of the revolution and the fight for freedom, March 16 and 17, April 11 and 14 and September 29 may be suitable for the celebration of the national flag and the honor of modern Hungarian colours. On 17 March, with the appointment of the Prime Minister of Count Lajos Batthyány, we could celebrate the Hungarian tricolor at the same time. The appointment opened the way for the formation of the first independent and freely elected government. By means of his national idea of freedom at the time of reform, iure was also a milestone in the appointment of ruler in Vienna, Bratislava and Pest-Buda. On April 11, 1848, the ruler Ferdinand V. sanctioned the so-called April laws. This was a turning point in Hungarian historical reality. It has transformed the order and content of government, almost completely independent Hungary has become, and from that day we can count on the restoration of the country's territorial unity, the merger with Transylvania. April 14, 1849 is the day of the declaration of independence. In the Reformed Church in Debrecen, the second reprimand of the Habsburg House was declared in our history. A few months earlier, and on September 29, 1848 at Pákozd, we fought our first and also successful battle against the defence of the country. And there is another day of reflection, which is not possible to fit in the above line, but cannot be traced from historical fact, but it is important, and we had to deal with it. This is the 19th of November, when in 2010 the Szekler flag was erected on the House of Parliament for the commemoration of the Szekler National Council, which still decorates the building of the legislation, saying that the house of the country is the house of the nation. Finally, let us look at the date for which we have decided, and we are also recommending it to the attention of this House. On 16 March 1848 the National Guard was organized. One of the important tasks of the National Guard was guarding public courage. In Pest, point 5 of 12 points, they're calling for a national police force. In the days of March, in the capital city and in the larger rural cities, a spontaneous self-organization of national security forces has been established, which have undertaken to maintain order, with the aim of excluding the interference of the foreign military in the event of protest or disorderly conduct. Later, at the National Assembly in Bratislava, XXII was born. Law on the establishment of the National Guard. According to this, healthy men between 25 and 50 years of age, if they had half the estate size of serf beds and 200 HUF worth of property, were obliged to serve as national guards in their homes. This mobilization is also the historical history of the independent regular Hungarian army and the modern military service. Based on the 1848-49 series of events, 16 March is suitable for celebrating and honoring our national flag and coat of arms. Both the country's three-colored flag and the Heraldical representation of the Hungarians can be found with the cleft coat of arms in the Armed National Guard emblemary on 16 March. This is confirmed by the detail of a contemporary memorial. In the evening, the two sister towns were lit up, and the streets were full of people, shouting, "Long live freedom!" From the windows there were national flags, signed in with the name of freedom. All night long, there was order and tranquility guarding the city, and the patrolling nation guards gathered vagabonds hiding in several places, and in all respects they fulfilled their vocation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So on March 16th, we can remember the great day of 1848 celebrating our national flag, when on the day after the revolution, the people demanded thousands of signatures to bring the National Guard to life, as well as weapons to defend the nation's freedom and independence. This day can also be interpreted as a banner break-up on the day after the Idus Celebration of March. Following the adoption of the Memorial Day and its introduction into the legislation, a legal toolbox based on national unification and codified liability in the Fundamental Law can be added on another festive occasion. The Day of National Symbols is another link, which combines the parts of Hungarian national bodies, which have been torn apart, and therefore are living beyond today's borders, also by means of a calendar holiday as laid down in an officially adopted parliamentary resolution. In my view, the organisation and coordination of the celebrations and events related to the Memorial Day can be a key part of the ethos and, according to the founder's declaration of intent, the National Strategy Research Institute. In view of the fact that the background institution of the Prime Minister's Office can provide excellent coordination between the form, content and ideas of keeping the commemorative day beyond the borders of the programme of unification. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I ask that, taking into account the above, you support our proposal for a parliamentary decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms and its new date, 16 March. Thank you for your attention. [[15.30]]
u2014-12-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha wishes to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-03-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Our fellow Members, Antal Rogán and Szilárd Németh, have initiated a parliamentary decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, and they have made it so that there will be a day in the year, there will be a day in our lives when we can direct the attention of ourselves and Hungarian society to our national symbols. Here in Parliament, representatives of various parties are sitting, we can say, and if we have had the opportunity to listen to the parliamentary debate over the last few hours, we have seen and heard that we agree on few things. We look at the past differently, we look at the present and the future differently, we offer other answers and different solutions to the issues and problems that arise in the life of the nation. At the same time, I think that we are all here, regardless of party affiliation, because we consider the issue of Hungarian nation and Hungarian freedom to be important, and the national flag and coat of arms are a symbol of our nation, our freedom, our national solidarity and our belongings, as Szilárd Németh pointed out in his expozee. That is why I trust him, and I believe, and I hope that today, when we are discussing this proposal for a resolution between the walls of this House, we will not be immersed in the swamps of actual policy mud wrestling, but we will discuss and accept this proposal for a resolution, which is important for all of us, with a seriousness worthy of its importance. Mr President, The Government of Hungary supports the proposed parliamentary decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and the coat of arms. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with Mr Secretary of State, I also believe that this current item on the agenda will not cause the same anger as the one left behind. Of course, this can't happen, because we shouldn't even compare it, but if you allow me to continue with the previous thoughts, I'd rather approach from the side of emotions, because I think if I said, "Himnus," I say, "National flag," I say, "Hungarian coat of arms," then we all have a heart beat at the same time, regardless of political affiliation, and I think so. We may also spend a little time at this time - which is very much needed for us, I think - and we can think about it, unfortunately, when the Hungarian flag was a forbidden symbol, and then, of course, instead of the three colours that make up our flag, another color became dominant, and then they put together a coat of arms of unmagyarless symbols designed to serve the ideals of a foreign power, and it was the symbol of that. It can be said that these thunderous or confusing times may have had only one benefit, that they strengthened their national affiliation in those who lived there, and made the decisive symbols of our Hungarianness increasingly respected. I think that the subject of the proposal for a decision, both the modified date and its subject matter, is, in fact, difficult to challenge. On 16 March 1848 the revolutionary atmosphere in the souls of Hungarian people lived there and lives today. We do not need to cover the glorious weeks and months that followed, and we are all aware of the glorious nature of this and the consequences of the repression of freedom. I think it is right that this date is linked to our largest national holiday, and in the end, this month of March - let us be sufficiently exalted - means the rebirth of Hungarians, linked, of course, to the revolution of 48-49 and commemoration of freedom, and I believe that by adopting this proposal for a resolution, it would enrich this holiday with a new meaning. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we would also cover many years of deficit with this day of remembrance, because Hungarian history has many days, stages and periods, to which we need to teach the next generation to remember. As a father of three, I think - no, I don't think I know that - that we have work to do on this matter all the time and forever, always, again and again. Well, if in March we can pay our respects to the two symbols embodying our Hungarianness, I think we will not go wrong and remember all those who gave their lives and blood under this flag for our country, and who have sacrificed themselves to finally be here, and have created the opportunity to act as Hungarians for Hungarian affairs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-138	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Firstly, I am very pleased with the speech by my fellow Member and State Secretary Attila Petneházy, because it seems that neither Minister of State nor my fellow Member are finally calling into question the national commitment and improvement of those Members who are sitting here among our ranks. On the basis of the last few hours of debate, I can say that both of your contributions were a fresh spot for today, so I would also like both of you to stick your spirit to the Hungarian Parliament for the next three and a half years, because it would be useful for everyone, because there are people working here in this House who, despite their differences of opinion, want to work for the Hungarian nation, the whole of the Hungarian nation. Indeed, I must agree with my fellow Member, Mr Petneházy, the fact is that when it comes to our nation or the symbols of our nation, we always have a slightly different heartbeat. That is why we would have liked to have given the factions the opportunity to participate in this proposal, because it is indeed about our international commitment to unite us here, and it is about the possibility that such symbolic proposals could create an opportunity for the factions to cooperate in this development. This did not happen here, this kind of co-thinking about the proposal, it seems that there was no demand, so if you like it, let me give you a criticism. I am pleased that there has been a shift in the proposal on 23 March, I must say that I agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to change the date here. You know, the problem with these historical dates - not criticizing the author's intentions - is that unfortunately the Hungarian nation is XX. 20th century history of Europe XX. Its history in the first century was such that, unfortunately, bad examples of everything can be found. This date of 23 March - not arguing that it is an important milestone for the years of the revolution of 48 and our freedom fight - was overhearing, because of the establishment of the Italian fascist movement or the authorisation law. [[15.40]] I am very pleased that it is not because of these interrogations, but because of the strengthening of our excellent relationship with another nation, but because of this intention, that the author has moved. The MSZP proposed and recommends that this day be 15 March, when we commemorate the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, but I think that this debate in the Committee on National Inclusion, which will be generated by these two amendments, I think they will be able to resolve, because I do not see any difference in content between the date presented by the author and the date of the MSZP on 15 March that cannot be bridged. We ourselves believe that it is the holiday system of 15 March that we will be able to celebrate in a worthy manner by including this flag and crest day. It is absolutely important that the citizens celebrate this day together and within a worthy framework, and when we remember the worthy framework, it is possible to say that the 15th of March and this is the place for this worthy celebration. I therefore believe that, at the committee meeting, this debate, I believe, in a productive and useful way, that we will come to an agreement, and that the Hungarian Socialist Party can support this proposal. The colours of the Hungarian flag symbolize strength, loyalty and hope. I think that there is a strong Hungary if the responsible government is working to ensure that there are no people living below 4 million living minimums. Loyalty: it is important for the government responsible at all times to strongly enforce Hungary's interests, even in integration, in the interests of the nation. Hope: I must say that a country must give me hope, and here I am talking about what my fellow Members have been arguing about for hours here, that in the matter of hope, the country is failing when hundreds of thousands of citizens leave this country. So if we are thinking of the colours and coat of arms of the Hungarian flag, the symbolism of red, white and green, strength, loyalty and hope, let me draw the attention of the government and my honourable fellow Member to uploading these colours with content. The Hungarian government should give its citizens strength, loyalty and hope, if and if it pursues such a policy, not only this proposal, but this policy will be supported by the Socialist Party. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-03-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the Jobbik... [[Interviews from Jobbik: No, Congressman Ikotity.]] I'm sorry, but the LMP didn't report. [[István Ikotity: I pressed a button.]] I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-03-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We wanted to exchange so much - it must have been a little misunderstanding - that István Szávay would be the lead speaker, and István Szávay only wanted to change the order with the LMP representative to tell the lead speaker.
u2014-12-03-142	Understood, okay, so I misinterpreted the signal.
u2014-12-03-143	Thank you very much, I would like to apply for a normal comment afterwards. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-144	Although Congressman Ikotity has not applied, I will give the floor to the representative of the LMP Group, who will give the group's opinion as a lead speaker. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me begin by saying that I pressed only a button and did not sign up in writing, because I would not start this speech following the style of the lecture in the traditional sense, but, rather, in a slightly different way, I would start with a personal family story to express it, to show that I am extremely committed to this matter. And this is the story of XX. It happened in the first half of the century, and it happened to my grandfather. It is stated in the text of this proposal that those who had suffered from or fought for the Hungarian flag, my grandfather was in a strange way at that time, when he was imprisoned because of the Hungarian flag, because he wanted to bring it to Bratislava in different ways and carried it in his coat. So he was caught, so to speak, in the act, and he went to jail for it. This is very closely in our family's history, and we feel that this is very close to us. For this reason, and I tell you this very often, I am a father of three, and my children already know this story, but this proposal itself is treated a little critically by the LMP. I'd like to explain why this is so. Ladies and gentlemen, An initiative has come before the House, which, at first glance, is very sympathetic and exhilarating, as it could be opposed to remembering the national flag and the Hungarian crest together on 23 March, how could we be involved in bowing our heads to the achievements of one of the most beautiful chapters in Hungarian history? The reform and the spirit of 1848, the patriotism and the brotherhood flow from the ranks of the Fidesz presentation to fill everyone with genuine warmth, i.e. those who only learn about the affairs of the world and the country from Parliament's proposals and government's communication, but unfortunately have not yet welcomed us in a new reform. In fact, I dare risk celebrating the national flag and the coat of arms in this way may seem a cheap substitute for the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You know, patriotism is in every Hungarian person who hasn't migrated to hope for a better life, and certainly in them. Everyone who works here loves their country, who has children, who pay taxes here, everyone who speaks Hungarian, thinks or dares to dream. If we look around Hungary at the end of 2014, we miss patriotism rather than government politics. It's not gonna help us put a day of memory into law. We have to ask: is this really the most important task of the legislation now, while hundreds of thousands of people are sinking into poverty thanks to your policy without the hope of a return journey, when the majority of Hungarians are helplessly watching our country be destroyed? Is this the most important thing we have to do now, to legislate a memorial day, while the country-world is loud from the proliferation of corruption scandals, while the oligarchs are richer and millions are deprived in Hungary? I also find it very regrettable that you seem to be thinking at this level about national policy, even though we have serious tasks and debts to date against Hungarian communities living outside the border. Compared to this, Fidesz discredits the whole area, all its real and burning questions, with a replacement action covered in sugar glaze. Finally, let me remind you that Hungarians do not need to explain what our flag and coat of arms mean. Everyone knows that generations of our ancestors have fought, worked for all of this, which the symbols embody. In order to force the parties of government to enforce their respect, I do not think they add anything to patriotism. Of course, we support the proposal, but do not think for a minute that it would improve the situation of the needy or bring a lasting consensus on national policy even a centimeter closer. Instead of window politics, we expect substantial action from you. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-03-146	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-147	Thank you for the floor, and I'm sorry about the mix-up earlier. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the day of the Hungarian flag and the coat of arms, we have before us a proposal for a resolution, which Fidesz has been trying, as usual since 2010, to cheat as soon as possible through the Parliament, which has been a law factory for almost five years, minimizing the substantive debate, avoiding the discussions on this issue, once again bringing back the national and memory policy to party political level. In 2010, you also announced a turnaround in these areas and claimed that the government would take action with the utmost agreement. [[15.50]] In this regard, knowing the centralization and guiding function of the Fidesz Communist parties, we had reservations even then. However, the symbolization of recent years has in many respects confirmed our worst horrors. The essence of your memory policy in recent years has been that if someone from the Fidesz Group has come up with something on a symbolic issue and submitted a proposal to the Parliament, then it has been voted unread by the majority of the governing parties, incorporated in a law or parliamentary resolution, whether it was an important, forward-looking proposal or just a well-meaning proposal, but it was stupid. As a result, in recent years you have carried out memory politics without ideas, unconventional, perspectives and consistency, often in a particularly incompetent way in this area as well. All this has been associated with an arrogance and pride of power, excluding even the possible hearing of criticism. We have seen many sad examples of this in Hungary and abroad in recent years. For example, instead of cleaning up the Soviet monument of Liberty Square lying to liberate the ruthless Soviet occupation of Hungary in 1944-45, for example, in a military cemetery, taking on any conflict in this matter, another monument was packed with it. One that has not been formally set up or initiated, of which no one knows yet, I do not think you have the true purpose and what it really represents. Thus, they can explain this to those who come from abroad to Hungary every day, and through this they are malicious guides of lies about us and about Hungarians. An eloquent example of their idea of memory politics is also the fact that various pro-government representatives have put commemorative days in succession on the victims of communism, not even passing on their own ancestor to justify them, the content of which in many cases contradicted each other. Thus, they had to withdraw one or more of them, which had a major backlash in remembering the victims, and significantly eroded social standing and support for this particularly important issue. Then, of course, it is difficult for you to expect coherent, transparent and national memory policy action in all its elements. Fidesz, starting from the balliberal space of the political palette, has gained the confidence of a large number of national-minded voters in recent decades, but it often seems, unfortunately, that it has not always succeeded in embracing the national idea in its depth. That's how last year the parties of government celebrated Trianon with peach woods, intersecting soles, and similar cretins. They have turned into a celebration one of the greatest tragedies of our nation, the date which, to this day, hopelessly separates Hungarians from Hungarians, which still paralyzes our nation today and constantly reduces the possibilities of our survival. So, in particular, and we continue to miss Fidesz finally seeing that it cannot acquire our national symbols, our national holidays, our national drafts. The Hungarian flag and the Hungarian coat of arms belong to all of us, all Hungarians. If this proposal were not only a substitute for action and not only a distraction from current problems, as it seems to be now, it would not have been presented to the House as a one-party initiative, but it would have felt important that a genuine national consensus on such a whole national issue would have been reached and a proposal for a five-party proposal was proposed in advance. We regret that this was not the case, and we ask that it be withdrawn in this form. Ladies and gentlemen, The product of the same intellectual, but at least aggressive and exclusional, memory-political push and consensus is also the proposal for a decision on our national flag and the day of our coat of arms before us. No misunderstanding, of course, we do not have a problem with the message of the proposal or the inclusion of the day of the flag and coat of arms in a parliamentary resolution. For many nations in the world remember their national flag or coat of arms on one day of the year, why not us Hungarians too. So, of course, we also consider it important to protect our national symbols. It is particularly sad to see this issue in the past few days, as a non-mand, raised by the commercial media, has publicly insulted our most sacred national relic, the Hungarian Saint Crown. To punish these acts, Jobbik is the Btk. have initiated an amendment to this Regulation. If the issue is really important to the governing parties, I trust it, and I want to believe that it is, then we count on Fidesz and KDNP to support it. Jobbik therefore has a problem with the fact that the pro-government majority wants to say yes at all costs to a proposal that has been put before this House as a one-party proposal and which is also bleeding from a number of wounds. We have reservations at the very beginning, even with the title of the resolution proposal, as we believe that the 21st of 1848 was the case. With the exception of the law, which put our two defining national symbols together in its ancient rights, as we have heard, there is no reason why the memorial day of our flag and coat of arms should take place on the same day. In particular, there is no justification for the fact that, according to our current Fundamental Law, our national flag does not officially include the Hungarian coat of arms, although we, Jobbikos, used to propose this. If we approach from the science of history, we also encounter two completely different auxiliary fields of science, the Hereldics and vexillology. Therefore, we do not understand either, nor does the justification explain why it is necessary for our two important national symbols to be celebrated on the same day. But maybe that's one of the minor problems. The hastyness of the proposal is also indicated by the fact that one of its presenters, Mr Németh, President of the Hungarian-Polish Friendly Section of the Parliament, did not think that he had already taken a parliamentary decision on this day. On this day we celebrate Hungarian-Polish friendship. This should have been thought of, and this is the case even if Mr Németh had already come to his senses at the request of the Poles and tried to put out fire in his speech. As we have heard, they are now proposing a different date than that contained in the proposal before us and which is now being discussed. Congressman, this clowning is completely unworthy of this noble cause, which is why we are asking you to withdraw this proposal and, in agreement with the parliamentary parties, to re-enlist it. [[For signals:]] He's not here. But if that's what we need to talk about right now, let's get back to the version that's in front of us. The resolution proposal does not in any way suggest that the National Assembly may support the organisation of materials, audiovisual products or conferences or events that may be used in education, through which interested parties or pupils in educational institutions can gain additional knowledge about the formation of our national flag and coat of arms, by showing their history and their daily use. In my opinion, such a specific issue would require complex, comprehensive thinking. If we really want to remember and remind our flag and coat of arms in a worthy way, it is absolutely necessary to support their presentation in education, to help make our national flags and coats of arms available as widely as possible. On the other hand, Jobbik thinks that our flag and coat of arms are much more part of our national identity than only elements of our national cultural heritage, and therefore we urge to change the relevant paragraph (2) of the resolution proposal in this sense. Although the justification is not part of the law, but because it serves as a source of law, it is worth saying a few words about it. The explanatory statement attached to the proposal for a decision is found to be inconsistent and incorrect in several places. A flag or a coat of arms can be described in two ways by the legislator. Either you refer to a source of law in an appropriate way, which clearly describes it, or you take the trouble and give you an exact definition of it. However, for an incomprehensible reason, the proposal before us has chosen a middle ground. In the case of our national flag, you will provide a description of it, while referring to the relevant passage of the Fundamental Law in relation to our coat of arms. This is not a good thing at all, because it only strengthens the impression of inconsistencies and rapid cognition in the face of prudent and clear legislation, which should in any case be the subject of such a weight proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik strongly believes that symbolic policy based on a sufficiently broad consensus is as much needed by our nation as effective economic policy, social policy or foreign policy. [[16.00]] Although national memory may not necessarily be materialized, it basically defines our identity, our image of ourselves. The power derived from national symbols, the example provided by our glorious ancestors, or when, by what and through whom or through whom we remember, it can serve both to crush a particular community, but also to rise, to strengthen it in its own identity and national pride. We are convinced that, therefore, an appropriate memory policy is an essential prerequisite for long-term survival and growth. For this reason, we believe that symbolic policy can only be pursued remotely, in line with clear principles and objectives, with the greatest possible national consensus. At the same time, we are sure that memory-political conflict with the use of the parliamentary majority is harmful and counterproductive, and that the most constructive criticism is not even seeking a minimum national consensus, since it exposes our most sacred national symbols to the changing management of political courses and possible destruction. We strongly reject this extreme memory policy, but also that which tries to define it as equal to our most sacred national symbols, and therefore tries to include in similar privileges symbols, flags that are far from as big a national agreement as certain political forces think. We therefore call on the governing parties to withdraw their unthinkable proposal, which is bleeding from many wounds, and to grant their concept for professional and political consultation. We promise to be partners in this, and we will support with constructive proposals the creation of the widest possible national consensus on the use and respect of our national symbols. This proposal, however, is unacceptable in this form, the handling of the case, the haste, the ideas we see here and the ideas we see here are not worthy of this proposal, it is unworthy of the Hungarian flag, it is unworthy of the Hungarian coat of arms, it is unworthy of the common memory policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-148	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now I'm going to ask the independent congressman in the room if you'd like to speak to him. [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, We're about to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Petneházy for two minutes.
u2014-12-03-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to respond to Mr István Szávay. I don't know him that long, but we've had the pleasure of discussing this subject in committee. But I wouldn't want to talk about that right now, but knowing him - not knowing him very well - I think that he has nothing against the content of this, I mean, that our national symbols should have such a specific [[István Szávay: I said that too!]] It's a glorious day to celebrate. Therefore, I may be allowed to say that he knows precisely that the kind of speech he has just spoken is not exactly on the subject, but it is his right. My grandmother said that when one man said to another one thing that he wanted to contradict - and perhaps he did, or did not - that he had done it well. I think that Member István Szávay, who is now on the side of the government, wanted to go a little further with this speech to quote my grandmother's words. I do not think, and let me personally claim the right to do so, that for me it is a very strong emotional issue of all kinds of Hungarian national holidays, and that Trianon is one of them. [[The Foreman of Novak: Among the Holidays?]] So I don't think it's unworthy. In response to István Ikoti for a moment... [[Novák Előd:...ty!]] - it was said that this is the most important and that this is an additional act. I think - and now I'm going to fall into the sin of demagogy - that we shouldn't talk about a lot of things here, and we shouldn't be dealing with a lot of things, culture, etc. - because that's the most important thing in the end? This is what it is to me. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-12-03-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I say to Congressman Petneházy that I think you misunderstood the words of István Szávay. István Szávay expressed very clearly what we think about this issue. And what we would like, anyway, is for this country to reach a place where we respect our national symbols every day, every day the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian Parliament and everyone pay tribute to these symbols. We would be glad that this country has not been there in the last 25 years - and let me give you an example, and indeed, I believe that you have this position, but let us never forget the past - that there was a nation-treasoning dwarf party here in Parliament whose representatives, advocates and the like allowed in this country to call the Holy Crown a Swiss hat, and the Turulbird a laying bird, and no one in the political set raised their voice against it. That's where the problems that we've come to are starting. And allow me to quote the reasons for your decision. It is said that the Parliamentary resolution confirms the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, giving a new impetus to the respect and appreciation of the flag and coat of arms, to the responsible action resulting therefrom. I was talking about how we want it to be like this every day when we talk about these things responsibly. I would like to quote it when it is said that the national flag and the coat of arms with a certain Heredaltic character form part of our national cultural heritage, which is the joint responsibility of the citizens of the institutions, organisations and the Hungarian nation. And here we could say more, like the Anthem, the Holy Crown, the historical Hungarian flags, and we could still list our symbols, which are very often unfair and I say that inexplicably, for example, in the last five years, the police, the prosecution or even the court have judged completely differently. Let me give you some examples. In 2012 we accepted the Btk. This was about protecting our national symbols. In this amendment, the Holy Crown was included in the subject of protected symbols on the proposal of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. In the last two years, there have been several unfortunate events in which there have been images of the Holy Crown that are demeaning and shocking. There was a company selling sports clothing that marketed a T-shirt in its clothing shop where Lajos Kossuth, Governor of Hungary of 1849, was seen in glasses and on his head with the Hungarian Saint Crown, to which he added a panther-painted sildet. So it's sort of portrayed as if he's got a backside baseball cap on his head. When the Jobbik Movement for Hungary learned about this, I personally filed a complaint in this case. It was clear in my opinion that the facts of the violation of the national symbol will be exhausted here. The collection, by the way, was taken off the shelves with great outrage. We didn't just say that, but the Sixty-four County Youth Movement. The prosecution has taken a negative decision to file a complaint, in which it is said that there has been no abuse of the crown, because the law applies only to the original Holy Crown, which is kept in the House of Parliament. Now, when we're making a law or making a parliamentary decision, we're probably going to interpret it that way, and when it's Btk. we have also made this amendment, then we have taken it for granted that we also want to protect the Holy Crown as our national symbol. [[16.10]] Then both the police and the D.A. will ignore this, since they say that the violation of the national symbol will only happen if someone in the House of Parliament personally dishonors the Holy Crown here, but they do not wish to act on what they represent or what they do not. Therefore, as István Szávay mentioned in his speech, we have tabled a legislative amendment proposal. He wishes to hear what István Szávay also mentioned, that it was not so long ago that the gentleman who called him a celebrity made his own sacred crown, decorated with beer bottles and cans, and then appeared in it and tried to show how funny he was. I would add that this is the way to combat these people, as my fellow Member, Mr Ander, has done. Knowing that this gentleman wants to perform in Barcson on New Year's Eve at a New Year's Eve event in Barcs, he wrote a letter to the mayor expressing his indignation at this celebrity's behavior. The mayor agreed, said that he felt the same way, and that the contract was immediately terminated. That's how you fight these people. But we can't report him either, because the D.A.'s office will say that, well, he didn't abuse the Holy Crown in the House, he just made one, and that's all. That's what we should be fighting all the time. Therefore, as my fellow Member István Szávay said, we have tabled an amendment. At the committees, and I hope we can discuss it here in Parliament, we want to describe it explicitly and factually, that from now on, the Holy Crown is an object to be protected just as the flag of the nation, or Hymnusa, and that, in connection with the violation of the national symbol, we should state in law that, from now on, visual representation and demeaning representation are equally criminal, and should be punished by prison. We would therefore like not only to defend Hungarian symbols in words, but not only in principle, but not only in principle, but also in Hungary's coat of arms, flag, anthem and history, because a lot of history is being forged, but also in actions. On weekdays, let us act in the same way against these nationalistic manifestations, and if the prosecution or the court or even the police refuse to act properly in these matters, this is also your responsibility, because in two thirds' possession, I feel that they should have raised their voice in relation to these events that I have listed. I feel that not only should we have reported in these cases, but I might have expected Members from the pro-government benches to raise their voices and perhaps join these reports. These reports were also published in the media, so they knew that Jobbik Hungary had been reported by the Movement. They could also have known that the police, the prosecutor's office, where you have quite an influence on them - it is enough to think that the Minister of the Interior is being given by you or, let us say, how much Peter Polt is being supported in his work - they could at least have said to them that they should not have interpreted the law on the protection of our national symbols as they understand it; anything can be done, if someone gets to the Holy Crown and then does something here, they should only be punished. So I'm asking you to support my amendment to the Btk. In all likelihood, this will be discussed later today, as my fellow Member, Vice-President of Parliament, will also talk about it and even illustrate to you those serious crimes, because I consider this to be a crime, which has a devastating effect on our national feelings, our national pride and the entire Hungarian nation. Thank you very much for listening, and I would ask you to support our proposal. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-03-152	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-12-03-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. On the one hand, it is good that such a debate can arise because the opposition is rarely given the opportunity to engage in discussions with the ruling party. I thank you for this, by the way; despite the fact that I should rather say that I feel justified in considering my fellow Member Savay's or fears, let us say. I think it is the right demand on our part, either on the opposition or on Jobbik's part, that you want a transparency, a curve in the government's national policy. I don't always see that. If we are talking about a proposal that is suitable for expressing national unity, I believe that this proposal is like this. As far as I'm concerned, 47 countries have such a day of memory, so 48 of them can be together with Hungary. Well, if this question is suitable for the establishment of a national unity, it should have created the national unity around its symbols here in the House, if a criticism was accepted by the authors, the proposal should have been such that it would have been suitable for this. The position of the Socialist Party differs from that of the Jobbik that we believe these are symbolic matters, but we do not want it to be because of our protests, although there is little chance of that, this law would not be born. We believe that we are giving this kind of advance trust now to create this law. At the same time, we would consider it important and we would like to point out that if you are serious about this intention, which seeks to create a national unity in symbolic matters, we would ask you to find the right form. We ask you that, if you really have such or similar initiatives, which you think you have, because the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, and my fellow Member Petneházy, have also said that this is indeed suitable for the establishment of a national unity, then we should present the motions to this House at least in a way that is suitable for expressing this unity. I believe that there was an example of this already in this cycle when the government managed to jump this thing. I don't have the right to think that this will be impossible for the next three years. So I would ask you to try to develop this national unity in the next such legislation, and to choose appropriate forms. At the same time, I believe that a constructive debate will be possible at the committee meeting and that we can support this proposal. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-154	Thank you, Congressman. Two-minute comments will follow; first, István Ikotity, Member LMP.
u2014-12-03-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond primarily to the comments of Alpár Gyopáros. Firstly, because I have indicated that we are in favour of this proposal. What you're asking me to account for, and at the same time you're accusing me of being national, both in my name and in the name of my party, I think we're most definitely asking for it. What I think is very important and I have just said is that this is not the best way to achieve either the unity of the nation or the national political consensus that you are proposing. That's what we've been talking about, personally, that it's possible that it might become a compulsion for students to celebrate such a thing. It may not have the most positive effect on students. So I would also like to ask you to show some restraint about the continuation of this holiday. Not because it wouldn't be very important, but because it can easily turn to the opposite. We are absolutely certain that you, too, intend that these national symbols be properly and even more honored. Only if they demand it as forcefully as possible, they can turn back. I want this to be clear. There's no conflict between us, we want the same thing, but let's not move in a direction that strikes back. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Mr. István Szávay's betterman for two minutes.
u2014-12-03-157	Thank you very much. I am sorry that Congressman Petneházy did not respond in substance or responded to what I spoke about in substance on this proposal. We're not as forgiving as the socialists. Mr Kiss said that of course, of course, it is an important, good thing, obviously supported, but you are asked to seek consensus next time. [[16.20]] That should be enough of that now, my dear MPs. For four or five years, it's been an idea, and it's almost enough of this constant brainstorming. We come up with the memorable days, we think about the proposals already tabled with the dates, and what they're putting in, they're gonna cancel it twice, because they didn't take so much time to put three or four sentences in a normal way. This was the case now - to come to another proposal - Minister Hende's proposal for the villages in Vas county had to be withdrawn, because the list of villages did not fit, it had to be withdrawn twice, and even in the third version there was an infinite nonsense left to justify it. That should be the end of it now, Congressmen. On the other hand, I have been talking for a very long time - you said: I was about to hit a long one or beat it through the party; yes, Congressman, this is what it is about - to get their heads on, be kind, and try to touch these questions in such a way that we can at least see the minimum effort on your part, that this matter really is so important for you that you want to get some kind of national consensus out of it. But that's not it. The pro-government representatives are all over the place filing all kinds of days, those that are hitting each other; that's what we saw the last time. And what is your attitude? And why won't they change it? When we discussed this in the National Assembly Committee and briefly said similar harsh criticisms, what did we get whispering through the benches? That he's okay, that he's okay, but you're gonna vote for him anyway, right? That is the attitude we should take back now, fellow Members. Be kind to deal with these questions in a manner worthy of them and with weight. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-03-159	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, I will not take advantage of the 15-minute timeframe, as my fellow Members have already said a lot of things about why we have aversions with this proposal. Of course, the proposal itself is beautiful, our national symbols must be given the highest possible appreciation, but we can see that since the entry into the Btk., for example, the protection of our national symbols - the Holy Crown, the flag - has increased their abuse several times since then. Until there was such a condition in the penal code, until one year of imprisonment, there was once or twice, we heard that such a thing appeared here and there in the last 15 to 20 years, but in the last four years, this type of phenomenon has become virtually everyday. That is why we say that such a bill should be drafted a little more carefully, more precisely a proposal for a resolution, and that national symbols, the use of the word "native" should be used more carefully in a legislative process or at any time in everyday life. Let's just think about it. You've even been using the national label on tobacco stores. From this point on, we should not be surprised if the national flag is issued. Well, you're the one who takes him down when tobacco stores are named national. Why is a tobacco store national? Is it because it poisons the entire nation? Or why? Now I would have just given you one example, but you usually provide everything with the national flag. There may be positive sides to this, or there would be, especially if the economy were operating in such a direction, and the well-being of the people would be such that they would really be happy to see that the national future is being built, but at present they can only see it at the level of words. I think that is why the critical wording that has been said so far is absolutely justified. I have not already filed a complaint in connection with the violation of our national symbols, and I have received exactly the same from the prosecutor's office as my colleague Szilágyi, that the Holy Crown has not been harmed, has not been abused, because only his image or something like it has been abused, have I been humiliated in Vienna where appropriate by humorists laughing at the Hungarian ambassador, and I can still say that Darth Vader, the devil's embodiment, can be seen on the head of the Holy Crown, and thousands more similar things, such as putting a swastika on the top of the Holy Crown in place of the cross, and that we can almost mention these things without end. We submitted our bill again, as has been said here. Here are some of my fellow Members, and here are the secretary of state, so please allow the government to at least put this one amendment of Jobbik's proposal, the amendment of the Criminal Code on the agenda, to discuss it, and if this is already the case, to constantly desecrate the image of the Holy Crown, we should punish its image. And I think that when the crest, the flag, or the protection of the Holy Crown came into the penal code, none of you voted for it because you thought you were gonna break into Parliament's building and I don't know what kind of criminals they are, they're gonna beat the government guards, and then they're gonna blow the reinforced glass bulb with a big mortar and put the Holy Crown on their heads. I guess that's why no one imagined it, and that's not why we wanted to protect it, but because of what happens every day in this country. If this symbolic bill, more precisely this proposal for a resolution, has come before us, then I would like to ask you to consider a little further, on the one hand, to use the national marker much more carefully, on the other hand, to support this present bill, and at last not to be an everyday event of desecration of the Holy Crown, because a nation does need some symbolic sacred objects that it can respect as a common symbol. That is why I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-160	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to Mr President Novak in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Speaking of the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, let it be a flag. I think that this could be justified in substance and aesthetically in a number of ways, and perhaps this is not a hopeless request, since it was accepted earlier, and we also accepted our proposal that the Székely flag be on the building of the Parliament instead of the EU flag, and here in this Chamber the flag of the European Union as an empire should also be removed. So it is not hopeless whether the former or our request is that even from the most representative smaller hall of Parliament, which follows the plenary session, this delegation hall is on the main staircase line; in the axis line of the building there is the most solemn hall where the House Committee holds its meetings, where the Speaker of the House takes his place in front of an EU flag at the meetings of the House Committee - the flag of the European Union is yet to be removed. Why would we want that? Because we believe that, in fact, this proposal could restore the legal order, because the current, but especially the former house management, bypassing the legislative intention, put the flag of the European Union on the House of Parliament out of a kind of overzealousness, because, under Article 1 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the Parliament is our main representative body of our national sovereignty, so there is a particularly unjustified foreign flag. Moreover, the law on accession to the European Union did not make it compulsory or even explicitly exception to the Parliament building when it unfortunately made the use of the European flag mandatory in certain public institutions. That is why we say that even if the legislator, even the legislator at the time, was able to make an exception - we are talking about a 2004 law and we are talking about an MSZP-SZDSZ-regnation, at that time, and even then the legislator made an exception - and he said that only the Hungarian flag has a place in the building of the main representative body that embodies the sovereignty of our nation, then I think that it is extremely overzealous and that the legislative intention is being avoided is the practice that exists only to a lesser extent, which, however, still exists in the Delegation Hall of Parliament, as in the most prestigious room following the plenary sitting room, and before which László Kövér holds his place solemnly at the meetings of the House Committee, for example. I think it would be justified to change that. Levente Murányi, a freedom fighter of 56 who was also a representative of Jobbik in the previous term, was the one with whom we symbolically removed - and not only symbolically but indeed - the flag of the European Union from one of the Parliament's co-buildings, the House of Representatives, on 1 May 2012 because we wanted to draw attention to the fact that there is absolutely no place for this. [[16.30]] In particular, if this - I think it is symbolic - was done by an inmate in 1956, because it was the '56s, the boys in Pest, who, I am extremely proud of being shown such ingenuity, cut the symbol of authoritarianism out of the Hungarian national flag in 1956, so I think that we cannot tolerate the flag of another world empire, especially in a building that represents the sovereignty of our nation. That is why this step is absolutely acceptable. For us, the symbol of every nation, its flag is sacred, but the European Union is not a nation, it is an empire just like the Soviet Union, in the sense that it seeks to eradicate the nation states. Therefore, I think that it may be possible, of course, to find Tamás Gaudi-Nagy's move excessive; some people feel that when he removed it from here and threw the flag of the European Union out of the House of Parliament, it is appropriate to draw attention to the fact that there is nothing to do with the flag of the European Union. Just now, when we have discussed one of the biggest problems of our country, emigration, when we see that our colonization by the European Union leads to the fact that over half a million people have already left our country, then it must be said that we do not have to tolerate the flag of this empire. So not only do we need symbols and symbolic proposals for decisions here, as we do now about the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms, but we would not need them in the first place, especially not in this form, as our leading speaker, István Szávay, said, but we should also have more meaningful measures, as was indeed a substantive measure, that - by the way, on the proposal of István Szávay - the Speaker arranged for the Székely flag to be placed in the place of the European Union flag, after, unfortunately, that this symbol of Székely self-determination had actually begun to be persecuted in Romania. Finally, allow me to briefly explain the letter to the Speaker, sent by the Jobbik faction leader, in which, I think, you will give a slightly more focused list of arguments that are still relevant from a certain point of view, since, on the one hand, László Kövér has not yet said a round pretzel that the flag of the Union will no longer be seen here during his reign, and we also do not know whether the Székely flag is not just a temporary measure. On the other hand, as I mentioned, the flag of this colonial empire can still be found in the Delegation Hall. In May 2012, Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, addressed the Speaker to Mr Vona, in which he drew attention to: On the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Fundamental Law, Parliament is our main representative body of the people embodying our national sovereignty. Its existence is exclusively due to the will of Hungarian citizens. He is responsible for his decisions for the Hungarian citizens. As a symbol of our thousand-year statehood, the Parliament does not depend on the existence of our membership in individual international organisations, so our membership in the European Union is well ahead of and will certainly survive in the birth of these organisations. In addition to the European Union, other international organisations, including the UN and NATO, have their own symbols, including flags and flags. Hungary is also a member of these organizations for various reasons, but their symbols are not used in our public buildings or in front of them every day. The European Union is not more than these international organisations in public law, for example, it is not an independent state which Hungary would only have a Member State with limited sovereignty. It is therefore entirely up to our own decision whether or not to display the symbols of the Union in our public buildings. 21X of 2004 on certain legislative amendments relating to accession to the European Union, repealing legal provisions and laying down certain legal provisions In law, the legislator decided not to make the use of the European flag or the European flag mandatory for the Parliament. This decision is not unprecedented. For example, Germany, one of the founding fathers of European communities, did not set the European flag until 2008, and only exceptionally, on 9 May Europe Day, on the top of the Berlin Reichstag. In our view, it is unjustified and unnecessary to display the European flag with little community with Hungarian statehood on the buildings of the Parliament - or even to this day in the Delegation Hall - on a permanent basis. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this regard, Gábor Vona has proposed that, under one of the points of the Act on Parliament, the flag of the Union should not be displayed. We also asked, with which I started my speech, that, in view of the fact that Article I (4) of the Fundamental Law also allows the use of other forms of the Hungarian flag that have been historically formed, we suggested that Parliament's buildings, or even here in the Chamber, should have the flag set out in Article I (1) of the Fundamental Law, including the Hungarian coat of arms. The removal of the flag of the European Union from the Parliament's building and building should therefore be stated, not only with such a look-see, but also with underground solutions, because if in 2004 a majority of MSZP-SZDSZ were not ashamed to say that an exception could be made to the Parliament, then László Kövér must also be so brave as to say that, yes, the flag of the European Union is not available in the building and building of the National Assembly, the body which embodies Hungary's national sovereignty. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-03-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-12-03-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to relive this Ensign debate, because I don't think we'd ever go home from here. But I have to say, I am sure that we are having an argument with each other, what my fellow Member has just said, because I think it was a serious misinterpretation of the EU's idea. I myself think that different flags can fit very well side by side, and in this House, too, these flags are very good for each other. I would just like to remind you that I am a proud European citizen, I am a proud Hungarian and I am a proud Óbudai, and I am proud of these three together. [[Adam Mirkóczki: The Flag of Óbuda? Zoltán Lukács: Bring it in next week.]] The Óbuda flag isn't out there, but the coat of arms is here, of course. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga applauds.]]
u2014-12-03-164	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-12-03-165	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss, I believe that you are serious about this, but let us not forget during the discussion of this proposal that you are still a representative of the Socialist Party that has denied and spit against foreign Hungarians many times over the past twenty years. I believe you consider the Szekler flag important and fitting with other flags, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, to this day, we are still waiting for your fellow party, Tibor Szanyi's apologies for the very amazing statement of facial toaster, rude and rude about the Szekler flag in Parliament. I'm sure someone in your party called on you, I assume you didn't have the sense to remove this post from your Facebook page, but neither did a public apology from Tibor Szanyi, nor did we get any separation from your party in this regard. So now would it be nice to know what the Socialist Party's position on the Szekler flag is: what you said, or what Tibor Szanyi used to write on his Facebook page? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-03-166	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-03-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman Petneházy, I really do believe your words, and I fully believe your good intentions. That is why I would like to say - so as not to misinterpret our words, and say that Szilárd Németh will then try to set things differently in the closing word - we did not say that we would have a problem with you bringing such a proposal, let us say, to the House. What we have a problem with is the form in which they bring it in to this House, what kind of negotiations are preventing it at all. The other is that we have tried to tell you that beyond words, let us finally move on to action, and let us do everything in action, in everyday life, so that we can protect our national symbols together. By the way, allow me to read a little detail on this matter from the justification given on 24 February 2014, i.e. four years after the so-called cabin revolution, two years after the entry into force of the Act, the amendment of the Btk. II-III. District Chief Prosecutor, Dr. Attila Kenyeres, described in his statement of reasons. This is about desecration of the Holy Crown. He says that, given that Hungary's constitutional state continuity and the unity of the nation are only embodied by the Holy Crown in Parliament, the crime committed by the desecration of the Holy Crown can only be established if it directly attacks the subject of the act, the only Holy Crown. [[16.40]] This narrower content of interpretation is supported by..., and then there are quotes, but, for example, it says that the Btk. 228. In the event of a misdemeanor offence contrary to Article 4 of this Regulation, the legislator, in addition to the dead, recorded his memory that not only the other abuse of the dead could be punished, but also of the deceased. However, in the legal facts of the offence of the national emblem, such an element does not apply in the context of the abuse other than the only Holy Crown to its copy or image. However, the figure challenged in the complaint was born only with the use and transformation of the image of the Holy Crown, and therefore the act itself did not directly affect the Holy Crown, and according to the constitutional interpretation which remains applicable, the negative opinions on the national symbol, scientific views on the history, value of the symbols, the importance of public law, artistic expressions or criticisms cannot be subject to criminal sanctions. That is why we have made this amendment, which we have submitted to you, so that it will be clear from now on, because the intention of the legislator was to punish each such visual and degrading display. To draw your attention to action again: now you know about this case, and you know that the Jobbik Hungary Movement has submitted such a legislative amendment proposal, which was signed by a number of Jobbik representatives. I would like to offer you, too, Mr Petneházy, but even to Szilárd Németh, any member of the Government: join us in this submission. Please express your intentions, come and sign this amendment together, and we will use it to protect one of our national symbols, such as the Holy Crown, and to clarify this matter. We welcome you to join the signatories. On this appeal - and now you are here, you can apply in action - please come and join us and present this amendment together, and then, together, we will accept it together in front of the National Assembly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-12-03-169	Thank you. I just have to say that all my fellow Member Savay's wishes will be fulfilled. I can tell you who to watch. Let me quote President Tobias, who said that the MSZP is a nationalally committed left-wing party. Watch President Tobias and me. I would just briefly remind you that last week, I spoke in this House myself against President Băsescu's statements against Hungarian and, among other things, Székelyzalló. Mr. Vice President witnessed this, too. In addition to Deputy Prime Minister Semjén, it was the MSZP and I who protested against this in a statement, also because of the Romanian judgment renationalising Markó Attila, former DAHR representative and Mikó Imre College. I think actions speak. And to add to the agenda, I will say once again that we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, and therefore the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Szilárd Németh in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-171	Mr President, I would like to say very briefly. Thank you very much. Thank you for the supportive words of the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. I am very sorry that a large part of the opposition has failed to understand the substance of our agenda and that the drivers of the proposal for a decision have been completely misunderstood. At the beginning of the debate, Mr Tamás Vargha expressed his hope that, on this agenda, he said precisely that we do not need to drown in the personal, aggressive and stupid swamp of active policy mud wrestling. I feel like Jobbik just did it this time. My fellow Members who support this proposal and have understood what it is, what its stakes are and what its weight is in this statement, I would ask that this be expressed by their vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals will be available by 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the bill on the villages of loyalty until closure. Hende Csaba, Péter Ágh, Alpár Gyopáros Fidesz MEPs' own motion T/2188. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the National Assembly Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-03-173	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, This bill brings a symbolic matter to this House. It reminds us of a dramatic moment in our history from the era following the Trianon tragedy, when the citizens of ten Vas county villages changed history and kept their homes in their country thanks to their courage and endurance. Dear Parliament, The citizens of these ten settlements were born a century earlier in rural Hungary. They didn't live an easy life, but they were always able to cope with hard work. People knew each other well and the people in the village next door. They knew each other's habits, knew and spoke each other's languages, respected each other's humanity. They were home in the country. Then World War I came, and the country suddenly became very expensive. Men also went to war from these villages, and many, many, too many, have never returned. And the peace that they had made without asking, he wanted to take their country away from them. All the things they lived and died for, for which they worked and fought, their homes and families, their ancestors' graves in the cemetery, their entire village and all their wealth, their entire livelihoods were pushed across the border with a single stroke of feathers. The country didn't seem to be able to protect them. The anarchy of the People's Republic of the Autumn Revolution not only could not ensure the protection of the order of state which it thought was good, but it was also abusing the possibility of enforcing armed resistance, such as a fair and democratic referendum in all respects, for the whole country. The internationality of the bloody dictatorship of the Republic of the Council, which did not represent any national interest, should not be mentioned. All those who expected him to free their home must have been bitterly disappointed. Still, the uprising in West Hungary and the passive resistance that emerged in its wake have shown that something can be done even if nothing can be done. The International Border Committee has faced all the problems caused by unilateral bordering. Some villages managed to get home after the Trianon peace. You can go home because you said that yes, we belong to Hungary. They said it as a Croatian, they said it as a German, they said it in their native language, and they said it in Hungarian. And they insisted on that word when they were harassed, tortured, and killed by one of their leaders. They remained steadfast because they knew that the country was theirs, connected to it for the rest of their lives. They stayed firm, and things changed. They remained stable, and after three years, the village where their home stood could return to their homeland. Once and for all, they recovered it, saved it for our common country, and reclaimed our common country for themselves. We should remember that the inhabitants of these villages, who spoke Croatian or German next to the splinter in their homes, in the family, at work or in the pub, remained faithful to Hungary. Hungary and Hungary were elected their country because they could live in it without having to deny their mother tongue, their past, or the community that had attached them to their neighbours. [[16.50]] They had a choice. They became Hungarians forever, in the process of keeping what they were. A point has been raised in the context of the Commission's discussion of the proposal. In this connection, I would like to say that the Hungarians from Transylvania and the Highlands have not been asked what they claim to be, Hungarian-speaking or Hungarian-speaking something else, nor have they asked where they want to belong. Dear House, The settlements that have grown together have reduced the number of villages of fidelity to seven, but they continue to live and grow on the western ends. Since then, things have changed at the Hungarian-Austrian border. Today, we hardly even notice when we cross the border. Since then, much has changed in the Carpathian Basin, with our neighbours we are allies with each other. After many decades of opposition, our relations will be rebuilt on the basis of common interests and common values. However, the last hundred years have not made the representation of national interest less important, and have not made the issue of the survival of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin a less pressing task. The example of the villages of loyalty shows that it is always possible to do for ourselves and for the whole nation if we believe and trust in what is right, if we know how to fight well and bravely for what is right, and we are quite steadfast in achieving it. Today, with your help, we can say the nation's gratitude and thanks for everything that the villagers and villagers, the ancestors of today's inhabitants, have done for our country. I therefore ask you to discuss this bill and to adopt it. I would also like to apologise for the fact that I have to return to the current government meeting, and my fellow authors will be involved in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-174	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás gives his opinion.
u2014-12-03-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government supports the proposal.
u2014-12-03-176	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have the representatives' contributions and speeches. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Bóna, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here.
u2014-12-03-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the bill that we have just tabled, we wish to commemorate the patriotic and heroic position leading to the only serious territorial revision of the Trianon peace dictate. We're talking about the brave stand of the towns that have been reattached together with Sopron. In doing so, they were actually opposed to the great authority peace dictate, not only saying that we should not accept it, but that is why they dared to do so and effectively. The fact that the villages listed in the Act belong to Hungary is the result of armed action and a year and a half of persistent local resistance, as well as government support and effective diplomatic negotiations. First, I would like to remember a very specific circumstance in the history of these faithful villages. The names of German-Christian and Croatian-sniper settlements already reveal their nationality. It is therefore mostly German villages and a Croatian nationality. This draft law is also a driving force from the Hungarian Parliament to the German and Croatian advocates and to the communities they represent, who also gave martyrs to the altar of patriotism, including in the person of the parish priest Ferenc Pataki. Respect for the victims, respect for the winning German, Croatian and Hungarian villages, because today we commemorate a joint Hungarian victory. The already mentioned mixed ethnic distribution should give everyone a thought to the idea of Hungarians and their country. Let me tell you about the little-known events of 1921 themselves, even in sketchy terms, because we are not talking about them at all, even though the freedom of these villages grew out of our Hungarian military traditions, because the right to the Hungarian land was earned here in blood. Therefore, those who did this deserve to be better known to the Hungarian public, to be informed by the Hungarian youth, and to have their story told in the Hungarian Parliament. In many small raids and in the battle of the two branch walls, they recovered this area with a light handgun thanks to volunteers baptized by the Ragwood Guard. In the first Battle of the Walls, the Austrian Gendarmerie, who entered the village, was about four times outnumbered by raggeds from the Kecskemét farmland, was forced to retreat with the students of Sopron County, the First World War with officers and soldiers, and the remains of the Szekler Division, under the leadership of the officer's task force. On our part, we have won a surprising victory with a heroic dead man. In the second Battle of the Walls, Agfalva was recaptured, in which we had three more heroes. The total loss on the Hungarian side is about 25 people, including civilian victims of retaliation. On 28 August 1921 the Ragyos Guard was founded to protect this area, and only in 1923 did these villages return between 10 January and 9 March, so it is a year and a half of persistent standing. In addition, this success required Count Miklós Bánffy's diplomatic sensitivity, our then foreign minister's calm and wise negotiations with the Austrians, with negotiators who did not want to hear any compromises. Finally, Italian intermediaries managed to put them at the negotiating table in Venice. The Venice Convention agreed that a referendum would decide the origin of the disputed territory, where the majority of the countryside voted for Hungary. This stage of our history is about the healthy balance and joint success of self-organization and diplomatic action, reckless patriotism and sound government negotiation, and as a result we can now salute the inhabitants of Hungarian villages. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-178	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Bóna. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-12-03-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let's have a little look-out. Father Piarist István Jelenits said in one place that we should not erect statues that should be removed again within 20 years, and that may be the motto of national politics. The fundamental question is whether there must be a state memory policy in order to ensure that our community, the Hungarians, does not fall apart. I think that in this Chamber I do not believe there is a debate about the need for such a state memory policy, but there is already a debate about what these contents are. Many times, even over the past decade, when I looked at each other's debates, whether they were contentions or history disputes, I sometimes thought that these things were black, white, because that's either true or true. Then I realized that, in the history of Hungarians, there are many truths that may at times exclude each other, but they exist side by side, or even against each other, because we Hungarians have lived our history in a very different way. If we are concerned with the presentation, the tragedy of Trianon is completely different to the heroic citizens living here than, say, an exploited, starving, miserable worker in Budapest. It's completely different. But you can't say and say that this tragedy doesn't exist, even though some people have it, some people don't. I therefore believe that I also agree with the authors in the intention that this has been initiated, that I and the MSZP also support the proposal, because this proposal can be part of a national policy that I think is a good direction, which I believe is a good direction, which puts forward an important stand for one community and the perspectives that it has opened up for the whole Hungarian community, and I think it will place it in Parliament. I will therefore certainly support this proposal, and the Socialist Party will also support it. [[17.00]] This idea would be good if it were common in the national policy that we are pursuing, because it would be good not to put our statues in place of each other, but to put these statues side by side. Because the history of our country doesn't mean anything to anyone present in this room, to those who are truly committed to the cause of the nation - and I think that in this House there are people who are committed - the people that need to be remembered together. Therefore, when we talk about whether there should be a national memory policy, my answer is how it should be, and then we get to what this national policy should be about. I think that this current government may make a mistake when it seeks to force a kind of historical interpretation on people, this is what it brings to life, Veritas Institute, National Strategy Research Institute, and so on; while a worthy state memory policy must be about all the values in which we are one and which everyone can share, it supports and improves, while in values that are not all of our own, it refrains from taking a stand in any direction. I think that the proposal before us is something in which the state's memory policy must otherwise be present, which is right in front of us, which is right for us to negotiate the House and which we can wholeheartedly support. We can wholeheartedly support the fact that there were, in fact, lines in the explanatory statement that I think are transcribed, and which occurred as a debate in the Committee on National Inclusion, but I think that we are still looking at the child as a whole, not the lines in the explanatory statement of the legislation, and that is why I say that we can support this. If I may, I would like to look at the historical period we are talking about after a little bit of my fellow Member Vona. After all, we believe the same thing about the fact that we must capture the actions and significance of settlements and citizens not only in this bill, but also in its debate. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] As is known, on September 10, 1919, Saint Germain and Austria signed a peace treaty with the winning great powers. In exchange for Austria's non-merging with Germany, they dribble a little honey and promise Austria and ensure that 50 large villages, 270 small villages and the cities of Ruszt, Kismarton and Sopron are given out of the three counties of the western areas of Hungary. As known, the Trianon Convention closing the First World War will mutilate Hungary from all sides and condemn millions of Hungarians to minority fates. Overall, the government accepts the unchangeable, and since attempts to negotiate fail, the offices, the military and the state institutions begin to move into the middle of the country. The Hungarian military and gendarme leave Sopron, the officer cadet school is placed on Jotas, the officer's daughter-rearing institute moves to Eger, and the county's centre settles in Kapuvar. On September 8th, 1921 - as was discussed in my fellow Member Vona's exposé - besides Ágfalva, the mostly military-armed students of the College of Mining, Coal and Forestry were armed against the invaders of the Austrian gendarmes. During this battle, as my fellow Member pointed out, many heroic students and many heroic warriors participated. However, the battle was so successful that the Austrians were forced to abandon these territories. As a result of this situation, the negotiations will be resumed, resulting in Italy's mediation of the two parties in Venice. Here on October 13, 1921 an agreement was reached. According to this, Hungary will pass the Burgenland lane, but the eight settlements of Sopron and its surroundings, with a total of 257 square kilometres, will have to decide on a referendum. Dr. Mihály Sopronyi-Thurner, who was the mayor of Sopron for 23 years, when he learned about this Venetian treaty, Dr. Jenő Házi town archivist and city official Mihály Ringhofer, began an important research into examining the last year's census data. This shows that if the Hungarians and the Croatians join forces, the Hungarian majority may be in this referendum. They therefore decide to unite the Hungarians and citizens of Sopron and its surroundings in order to take a united position in order to succeed in the referendum. As history proves, this work has resulted in success. The mayor represented the city to Antan, Mihály Ringhofer represented part of the city, and Jenő Házi tried to convince the other part to take a positive position. They did this, for example, with the help of the Hungarian Women's Association in Sopron. Not regretting the trouble of the archivalist, he directed the then neglected and unorganized archives and its oldest materials. This in itself is an important scientific and historical activity, which edited 371 diplomas between the years 1162 and 1406 into one volume and printed them in March of 1921. This is of extraordinary importance, not only scientific significance, but also historical significance, because with this published volume it was possible to prove that Austrians had no historical right to Sopron, since in this volume there are 371 diplomas, 166 were issued by Hungarian kings, and 4 were found from Austrian princes. The population of Sopron contributed to the urns on 14 December, under strict Antant control, and the surrounding villages voted two days later. However, the Austrians tried to attract the inhabitants with a variety of writings, and they noted that these writings were mostly left unread in the fireplace. The fact that King Charles appeared unexpectedly in Sopron on 20 October 1921, obviously with the aim of taking a clear position on where and to whom this region should vote, did not do any good for the conduct of the referendum and the public sentiment. If you allow some thought to be given to the vote itself as to how it was done, Dr. Jenő's records tell us about it. Says Dr. Jenő Házi:. Finally, on 10 December posters again told Sopron's population in Hungarian, German and Croatian languages that the referendum will take place in the city on 14 December, while in the surrounding eight villages on 16 December, secretly, by giving each voter an envelope with two tickets. One of the tickets was blue, Hungary was prescribed, while the second was orange, Austria was prescribed. Those who vote for Hungary will split the tag of Austria in two, and thus put the two tickets back in the envelope, which they glue down. And in reverse, whoever votes for Austria breaks the blue tag. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. According to Dr. Jenő Házi's records, 91 percent of the Sopronians exercised their voting rights, 77.4 percent voted in favour of Hungary. According to some sources, for example, one hundred percent of the population of Nagycenk decided to stay, proving that Count István Széchenyi's heritage was a true settlement. The other municipalities had similar rates, but according to the preliminary agreement, the votes were counted together, so that we can only guess what the ratio was in some areas and settlements. Overall, the proportion of those who joined Hungary in this referendum was about 65 percent. All this gave rise to such excruciating enthusiasm that when the Austrian Chancellor asked for the result by telephone, the mayor of Sopron, in response, only held the phone through the open window, where the joy of the citizens and the buzz of all the bells of Sopron were heard. The result of the referendum - because he could not do anything else - was also noted by the Council of Ambassadors in Paris on 21 December and was officially returned to Hungary on 1 January 22nd. This referendum inspired several municipalities, as a result of which referendums were issued in these municipalities, which resulted in the return of these places from 10 January to 9 March 23 to Hungary, such as Narda, Felsőcsatár, Vaskeresztes, Horvát shooter, Pornóapáti, St. Petersburg and Olmod. [[17.10]] The Saint Petersburg tree, who took the vote, later received the title of Communitas Fidelissima, the most loyal village. Because of what has been said, it is therefore clear that the citizens of the municipalities involved in the proposal are of great importance. It is of great importance, so I can say that because of this importance and because these events are so important in the universal history of the Hungarian nation and in the history of the micro-communist, the Hungarian Socialist Party naturally supports the presentation. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-03-180	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novak, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We welcome this proposal and obviously support it, but we do miss the fact that the name of the Raggyos Guard is not mentioned, not even in the explanatory memorandum, who is responsible for all the decisions we are about to take. We are pleased to see the progress that Csaba Hende has made on his own motion, but it is a bit typical that he has only managed to submit this on a third run - the previous two, though he himself has withdrawn it - and he does not mention, for example, the Ragged Guard in this regard, to mention only the biggest mistake I think is the proposal, but there will be a fellow Member who will highlight others. It seems to me that, less as a member of the government than as a Member of the Parliament of the region, in the interest of the popularity of the inhabitants of the local villages, he unfortunately presented this proposal, and although the government reacted very briefly here, I think that it should have been a little more humility than such a proposal, even on the part of a minister, or especially on the part of a minister - as it would in principle be a servant, a servant - and if he had submitted this proposal as an individual representative, and not on behalf of the government, he should have said it, not standing up from his seat as a minister, but from his seat as a representative. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: He should be there! Whose seat would you have sat in?]] The representative of the government stood up separately and said the unfortunately very narrow support that may have been expressed out of solidarity in the case of the independent motion of Csaba Hende. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Ministers sit there. The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as progress is concerned, we are pleased that they have finally found something that can really be celebrated, considered to be commendable. It's a big step forward if they don't want to celebrate Trianon, because unfortunately, they made a holiday in orange painted from the mourning day of June 4th. The Day of National Accession is called the Day of National Departure, and we have been regularly invited to a celebration even here in the House of Parliament, and unfortunately throughout the country this has been made a practice. I understand that in the case of the greatest tragedies - whether it is emigration or even Trianon - you always say that everything is resolved, there is no problem here, but it is not right to be so blinded by the fact that you are on the government. We do not claim, for example, that Tiranon is your responsibility. [[Defiance and interrogation on the part of the governing parties: Good!]] The other issue is that they have a very serious responsibility in remedying it - before laughing at a great deal - just think about 26 September 2005, when Romania's accession to the EU was unconditionally voted against Viktor Orbán's earlier promise. These are some serious points, and if we had acknowledged the merits of the Raggedy Guard, we would have to take account of the fact that since the alleged regime change, there would have been nearly a dozen possibilities for a peaceful revision. Ernő Raffay, former Secretary of State, also summarized this in his study as the Secretary of State of the first Antall government, and it was only on 26 September 2005 after the study was written that the aforementioned date was added, as there were many possibilities that could have been used, for example, against the right of veto against Romania's accession to the EU, which he said so well a year earlier at the Free University of Idolos, Viktor Orbán, with tears in the eyes of many, but then forgot about it, and there was not a single Fidesz MEP who, according to Viktor Orbán's previous promise, had voted against this proposal. Orbán himself pressed the yes button of unconditional support in this two-thirds law when the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition did not have a two-thirds majority. So they had a decisive word, and they didn't even impose a condition, and they didn't even consider the institution of dual citizenship necessary - now, on the 10th anniversary, let's remember this - to give our ripped countrymen dual citizenship. Although the majority of the yeses were in the referendum, it was the electoral will, if not legally binding and enforceable, but the yeses were in the majority, and Fidesz did not consider it necessary for the various two-thirds laws to make this even conditional. So I do think that the example of the Raggyos Guard and the uprising in West Hungary would have been good if it had been put into practice in government and with such peaceful opportunities - which is still the 21st. It describes the century - they could have lived. Celebrate not Trianon, but, for example, the uprising in Western Hungary, the Randyos Guard, or even the first or second Vienna decision, I would add, the Randyos Guard played a role in them, less known, but the same people have also contributed to the feedback of Hungary's territory in the highlands and Transcarpathian region by similar methods, even after decades. So there would have been plenty of celebrations outside of Trian, which could have been celebrated with fireworks and other things that could have been filmed in history. From the Battle of Bratislava to the struggles of the Raggyos Guard, many things could have been exciting, even an action film, but Andy Vajna, your government commissioner and your institutional system in general, your budget does not contain any intention to do so, unfortunately, even our proposals in this direction have been voted off, although I think that we should not have a parliamentary resolution proposal here in the first place, which has a lot of - this n plus one - but one that reaches much wider layers. For example, there could be a historical film, which you are rejecting, but initially with the cynical attitude that our proposal, which we have proposed in summary, is little, and then when we have proposed as much as you have said, it has already been swept off without justification; therefore, further action would be needed. The explanatory statement is rather painful that it does not mention, in any way, the Raggedy Guard, who is responsible for all of this, in this sense it is rather timid. While he mentions 16 names - different parishioners and other apparently worthy persons - he does not mention, however, the generals of the Ragyos Guard, Iván Héjjas and Pál Prónay, who, by the way, was also the leader of the Lajta-Bány, who was declared an independent state. Therefore, if they no longer mentioned by name - and by the way in the explanatory statement there are 16 other names that cannot be proposed to amend, let me mention at least here in the Hungarian Parliament the few names who, besides the many other anonymous insurgents, were the main guards of the Raggyos Guard. Such as Miklós Budaházy or Hilmi Hussein Durics - he was the leader of the Albanian Muslim volunteers - Dénes Egyedy Balázs, György Endresz, István Éhn, Mihály Kiss, Jr. Imre Füvessy, Gyula Füvessy, Pál Gebhardt, Ferenc Molnár Gyulai, Károly Kaszala, Imre Kémeri Nagy, Miklós Kozma, Viktor Maderspach, Ferenc Pehm, Pál Prónay, József Szabó, Elemér Székely, Árpád Taby and László Vannay. There are many who have given their lives for their country, even as the boys of Pest in '56, which is why we are glad that, if they have not been named, but at all, the most loyal city, Sopron, the bravest city, Balassagyarmat and the bravest village, after Kercasomor, the most loyal villages can get a title, but we must bow our heads to the memory of the Randyos Guard, which has long been cherished by our kind. It was a major step forward that, at the initiative of Jobbik, the government renovated the only memorial place of the Randyos Guard in Budapest, but the Ministry of Defence stopped the inauguration ceremony, and Jobbik organized it - just this year - with Roman Catholic liturgy. In the cemetery of Farkasrét, on 28 August, we held a commemoration of Jobbik on the anniversary of the 1921 War of Independence in West Hungary. The monument we wreathed is located above the tomb of Tibor Vámossy, who died as a 19-year-old art student, who, like the boys in Pest, fought against the alien occupation. Jobbik had previously requested permission from the National Memorial and Cegeleti Commission to restore the original state of the monument, which had been neglected and in bad condition, which had also been hit in the 1945 outbreak. The national opposition considers it an exemplary step forward that, following our initiative, the government finally undertook to renovate the monument of this heroic corpse of the Rongyos Guard, even under the law, Csaba Hende wrote to me, among other things, as Minister of Defence: Tibor Vámossy on 6 October 1921, albeit not as a soldier, but as a member of an armed free team, but in spite of an unjust international decision, dedicated his life to protecting the territorial integrity of our country, so it is the duty of all of us to cherish his memory. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.20]] At that point, I think I'm gonna have to hand it to the Secretary of Defense. However, the silently renovated statue's inauguration ceremony was no longer dared to be held. They planned, set an appointment with the Minister of Defence, but they didn't announce it, nor did they inform Jobbik who initiated it. Then, when we learned from a cemetery employee what they were about to do, and we published it ourselves, and even the Hungarian Guard indicated their intention to participate, it was called off..., pardon, it was postponed because they felt uncomfortable about this matter. It's been postponed, and it's been postponed for over a year now, the inauguration ceremony. That's why Jobbik himself was forced to celebrate this glorious anniversary, so to speak. There's no need to be afraid of the Hungarian Guard. There is no need to fear the Hungarian Guard Guards applauding the Minister of Defence. There's no need to be afraid of the current Guards wreathing a memorial place for ragged guards. There is a serious parallel between the Hungarian Guard and the Raggedy Guard. We're also talking about a socially respected but state-hunted volunteer force. Minister Csaba Hende last answered a written question in this way, and I quote: "The merits of the Raggedy Guard, which he gained in his efforts to protect Hungary's territory, are, of course, recognized by both the government and the Ministry of Defence. It wasn't so natural for me before, but I'm glad it was finally written. How painful it is that when a motion from its representatives could be taken to a higher level, it could be laid down in a parliamentary resolution to recognise the merits of the Raggyos Guard, then it will not be included in the norm or in the justification. The name of the Raggedy Guard must therefore be said, because when Trianon's decision-making masters wanted to attach Western Hungary to our ally Austria, there was a handful of patriots who rebelled against the unjust decision. The Raggedy Guard. College students, grooms. Veteran front soldiers, former task force. Hungarians, Germans, Croatians, Bosnians, Albanians fought for the survival of the country. Their heroic struggle against multiple outnumbers led through legendary triumphs to the famous enforced referendum, where Sopron and the surrounding settlements proved to be the most loyal Hungarian city and villages. That is why the name of the Raggedy Guard should be included in this parliamentary resolution. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, as the KDNP and the LMP Group have indicated that they do not wish to speak. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-03-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I find it difficult to understand how we have come from the most loyal villages to the Hungarian Guard, but I would like to draw attention to two factual errors for Mr President Novák. One is that we are not talking about a proposal for a resolution, we are talking about a bill. The second is that the bill commends the struggle of St. Petersburg, Ólmod, Narda, Felső chatár, Croatian shooter, Iron Cross and Porno-Papáti settlements, and therefore bestows the title of the most loyal villages in these villages. In these villages, the Raggyos Guard was not active during this period. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow. I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-03-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, As the great-grandson of János Németh, one of the outstanding figures of the Hungarian pro-Hungarian movement of Croatian villages in Western Hungary, the former Saint Petersburg cantor teacher, I am also very pleased and with some remorse for this bill. [[Csaba Hende applauds.]] When I was a child, I heard a lot from my grandparents, from my mother's parents the personal stories of the Croatian villages that returned to Hungary, the people who lived there. The collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy and the historic Hungary after the World War and the subsequent border dispute caught the Croatians living in the region unexpectedly. On the other hand, the German-speaking population in the region had their own organisations, their mother country supplying them with money, press and weapons, which aggrieved a lot of the people of the villages to choose to belong to Austria. For the locals, the border between Austria and Hungary did not exist in the past; it was just as it was today in the Schengen area. However, following the signature of the Saint-Germain peace treaty by Austria, they found themselves unexpectedly along the armed line between the two independent countries. This raised not only the issue of national origin, but also the issue of existential uncertainty. The majority of the workers in the villages in the region worked in Lower Austria, in Styria, and the farmer in Pinka Valley either found a buyer on the market in Szombathely or Austria. The Croatians in Gradisty lived in homogeneous villages of smaller groups, strongly attached to their mother tongues, characterized and characterized by strong religiousism, and showed their conservative position that the Christian socialist party had won the elections in their midst. The Republic of the Council did not enjoy any particular popularity in the region, but the Croatians of Gradisty also participated in armed fighting against red terror. After the fall of the Republic of the Council, the Austrian pro-Vienna movements from Vienna returned, and even Austrian free troops broke into the villages. Under these circumstances, the Hungarian-Austrian border committee began its work, in which French, English, Italian and Japanese officers represented the winning powers. The border committee also took care to listen to the public. It was expected that Hungary, the Germans, would mostly stand by Austria - although there were many exceptions to this - but it was only clear from the Croatians in the area requested by the Hungarian delegation that they wished to belong to Hungary during the hearings. The local intellectuals, village judges, priests and teachers of the local croatism led the movement, one of which was my great-grandfather, János Németh. Their work is exemplified by the kind stories that the Japanese member of the committee was favored by a young student with a Japanese poem taught by the teacher, or that the committee arriving at the Felsőcsatár was received by the Hungarian flag and banner with a large number of people that the Austrian Gendarmerie was hiding. After the decision to return, St. Petersburg was the greatest celebration of all. Maybe it's understandable. It is no coincidence, because the Saint Petersburgers had to fight the most to get back to Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the historical recitation of the events, the question arises why Hungary was so attached. After all, three of the returning ten villages had German lips and seven had Croatian lips. From an economic point of view, the majority of the sales market was in Austria. Transport aspects did not justify the choice, since it was in any case confusing to establish a new border, which did not take these aspects into account. The decision of Croatia was influenced by other factors than economics. Croatia has been part of the Hungarian crown for 800 years, they moved to Western Hungary nearly 400 years ago, and according to official data, their number was 45,000 at that time, according to unofficial data, to 70,000. During this long period, they managed to preserve their mother tongue and identity. So what's the answer? The answer is somewhere in the words of the Croatian-speaking farmer from Sopron County, who at a meeting in the county of Vármegy, summated his position as follows: "We have always lived and understood each other as brothers. Therefore, we want to continue to belong to Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Tibor Bana, the Jobbik Group, has made a statement. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Parliament in Vas County, I welcome, of course, the bill before us. In connection with the referendum in Sopron, the average voters, most Hungarians, have much more accurate information, such as the history of the settlements in this bill, and how these villages could eventually remain part of our country. Here, however, I would like to correct some of the points that have been expressed by my fellow Members in various political groups and to respond to some of the speeches. On the one hand, there was a serious uprising at the time following the outrageous Trianon peace dictatorship. This is what we call the uprising in West Hungary, from the Ágfalla in the area of Sopron, to the then Vas county Felsőőőr, where the resistance was on fire, and the Randyos Guard also carried out serious activities in the settlements of Austria today. [[17 .30]] It is true, indeed, that he did not express himself in the villages in the proposal, but I think it is clear that the fighting of the Raggyos Guard played a role in the fact that these decisions could finally be made, so that the villages could earn the signs of the villages of loyalty. Another thought, which I would also like to say to the head speaker of the MSZP, is that we have actually heard a rather long historical discussion from him, which was largely correct, but this proposal is not about villages in the area of Sopron. It would have been good if you had been a little more thorough and more precise about this, as all Vas county settlements are included in the bill before us. How could they have been returned to Hungary? In such a way that, as I referred to it, the armed struggles played a role in this, the various forms of opposition, that they eventually achieved that they had asked the population where they wanted to belong within a five-mile radius of the precisely designated border area, and that all of this was done in the shadow of foreign bayonets, since these settlements of German and Croatian nationality were already under Austrian jurisdiction, so that they were able to enforce the decision of the League of Nations which was born on 19 September 1922. Here, too, I felt an inaccuracy from the lead speaker of Fidesz, because he talked about the majority of German - speaking settlements. Alpár Gyopáros put this in place, because he told us exactly that out of the ten settlements at the time there were seven Croatian and German majority, of course these are mixed settlements, but I think it would also have been worth paying attention to in the speech. About which settlements... [[Csaba Hende: I didn't say that!]] But that's what the lead speaker of Fidesz said, and I listened, that's what he said, Minister; not Alpár Gyopáros, but the lead speaker. Which settlements are we talking about? Kisnarda and Nagynarda, now known as Narda, this settlement exists under the name of Lower and Upper Csatatar Felsőcsatár, the Hungarian Cross and the German Cross is now known as the Iron Cross, Croatian Shooter, Pornópáti, Ólmod and St. Petersburg tree. Finally, these settlements, following the already mentioned forced decision of the League of Nations, were largely subject to Hungarian administration on 10 January 1923. In the case of Ólmod, this happened two months later, on 8 March, and in the case of St. Petersburg, on the same day, on 9 March. St. Peter's Tree had already earned the title of Communitas Fidelissima, the most loyal village at that time, because on three occasions the inhabitants of this settlement had given faith to their Hungarians and their nationalism. I think, Honourable Parliament, that the courage, the faith, the commitment that has been shown by the participants in armed struggles, the people of organised resistance and the populations of these villages are certainly worthy of recognition, because unfortunately, these values are in decline in today's world. So, of course, it is my duty to bow my head to the inhabitants of the settlements of St. Petersburg, Ólmod, Narda, Felső chatár, Croatian shooter, Iron Cross and Pornóapáti. I welcome, once again, the fact that these villages can indeed be given the title of the most loyal village. My predecessor Novak has already mentioned that a number of people are also remembered by the general justification, which is very appropriate, so I do not want to go into the details of this. With regard to the border settlement committee, how the decision was taken, this committee came together, in addition to the Austrian and Hungarian parts, to form these committees by Japanese, Italian, English and French representatives, and then the decision of September 1922, which had already been mentioned, which allowed these villages of Vas County to actually be placed under Hungarian administration again at the beginning of the following year. Indeed, there was a slight error here, there was some confusion in the system, because the proposal had to be submitted several times, because for the first time there was some inaccuracies in its title. However, if this has already happened, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, from 2008, Communitas Fortissima, the most courageous village, will be named Kercaszomor, a guard station. We are talking about a settlement southwest of Őriszentpéter, which was still part of two parts, and it was the inhabitants of the village of Szomoróc who, with the help of the neighbouring Kerca and the border guards stationed there, forced the invaders out on 1 August 1920, and then followed by a serious and powerful counterattack, so that this settlement came under Serbian-Croatian-Slovenian rule again. Then, after long negotiations, the border settlement committee also made a positive decision for us, and on 8 February 1922, the invaders withdrew. I think it is worth once again bowing down to the citizens of the settlement now bearing the name Kercasomor. I would also like to bring some names of settlements here, ladies and gentlemen, because the Felsőröök, the Rábafüzes of Szentgotthárd, and also a small part of Felsőszölnök and Pinkamindszent, who are part of today's Rönök, have returned in a way that the residents of this settlement have declared themselves Hungarian, and it is true that we can say here that most of them are ethnic residents. This Friday is the ten-year anniversary of the despicable referendum on dual citizenship on 5 December 2004. We, of course, supported this with our full breast width, and welcomed it, and we were the first to take the initiative in ultimately creating a dual citizenship proposal in 2010. It was the first bill tabled by the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. If we are approaching the tenth anniversary of this, I think it is important to point out that the settlements that are included in the proposal then, on 5 December 2004, they made a clear belief in their Hungarianness, because if we look at the results, each village had greater support than the national average. In the case of Ólmod, this represents 54 per cent, 58 per cent for Pornopáti, 59 per cent for Felső chatár, 61 per cent for Iron Cross, 65 per cent for Narda, 70 per cent for St. Petersburg and 80 per cent for Croatian Shooter. Kercasomor, the said guard's settlement, clearly passed on the historical heritage that its inhabitants took up after the outrageous peace dictatorship in Trianon, because here too the yeses won with a very serious two-thirds support of 67 percent. I think, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a good example of the absence of coincidences, and indeed we must bow down to the inhabitants of these settlements today, too, in 2014, because they also clearly expressed their affiliation and national love in this referendum. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-12-03-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. I now give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, Fidesz Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a little note and an additive. Congressman Bana, I checked, it was a loss of speech, nothing more in terms of villages with German and Croatian lips. But with one additive, let me serve you. As for the polemic found in the Committee on National Inclusion, I wasn't there, I'm not on the committee, so I couldn't say it there, but I would tell you now, and I would ask you to translate it to Congressman Szávay, if this dilemma was certain that my great-grandfather was sure, but I think the greater part of these people, if they had told them that they were Croatian or Croatian-speaking, and that they would have taken the Hungarian out of this vocabulary, they would have certainly rejected it. Personally, he was a cantor trainer. I don't think he's got himself caught up in assault, but he could be. He was very, very proud of his Hungarianness, besides being a Croatian-speaking man. Let me give you an example of this quote from a poem that he wrote, one line of it all, this poem recited at the feedback ceremony in 1923 by one of his students, and one line of it sounds like this, and I think this is an eloquent proof of the statement that I made. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the representative of Jobbik. [[17.40]]
u2014-12-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't understand why you addressed this to us. The Movement for Jobbik Hungary has expressed several times, and I personally believe so, and this has been the case several times, when people are accused, let us say, of why they are Hungarians, and what is that Hungarians and the like, because there are different nationalities here, and we have always expressed that being Hungarian is not a genetic issue, being Hungarian is not a religious question. So man is Hungarian in his heart, soul and mind. If we only look at the martyrs of Arad, then genetically - and so on - we cannot say that these people were Hungarians. And we are talking about the largest Hungarians, who were willing to make the biggest sacrifice for this country. In the same way, in these villages, the residents and the people who have shown themselves here, contrary to all reason, as you have said, why they wish to belong to Hungary - because they were Hungarians. So this is what we say, and this is what we always say, because it does not matter how a person is born genetically, where one belongs from origin, whether religiously or religiously, but in his actions, emotions and thinking Hungarian becomes Hungarian. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have the speeches announced in the normal time frame. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ágh, Member of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-193	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great honor for me to speak to you as a Member of the Parliament of North Vas County and as one of the presenters of this proposal. The discussion of this item on the agenda sends a message to the municipalities of Vas county who have insisted on Hungary, that this country is grateful to them for not letting themselves go, and they have demonstrated that their hearts are bound by true love for all that the red-white-green flag represents. The story of this country has often moved forward thanks to those who refused to accept it, to accept the situation that seemed to have been assigned to them in the first place. Therefore, freedom fighters, revolutionaries, national heroes and martyrs have always had to show our respect, always bowing our heads to them, whether they are well-known, characters in the textbooks or just Hungarians whose names did not survive, but without their sacrifice today's independent, democratic, free Hungary would not exist. With the proposal before us, the time has come for all settlements to be included in the nation's pantheon, without whom this country would be smaller and less territorially, but what is also important is that there would be less, because all those living or living in these seven villages have contributed to making this country more, more by the power of their communities, more by the love in them, more spiritually. From my constituency, Olmod proved his loyalty. This lovely little village is situated in the northern part of Kőszeghegyalja, 4 kilometers from Kőszeg. As the centuries passed, there were always challenges for the people who lived here. In 1532, the Turks destroyed the settlement. In 1533, the heroic defender of Kőszeg, Miklós Jurisics, received the village as a royal donation. In the period between 1533 and 1544, Croatia's estates, the area bordered by Una, Cup and the Seasides, were planted here by Croatians. Although the owners have changed, the nationality community has remained and has been strengthened. However, in challenges and trials there was still no shortage, it is enough to think only of the first world war that started a hundred years ago. Then came the tragedy, during which historical Hungary ceased to exist. In that situation, the moment came when those who could, had to act. The Lolmodians have acted. Ladies and gentlemen, When I told Hergovich Vince, Mayor of Ólmod about our presentation, he proudly shared with me which noble villagers organized the events. Their leader's late grandfather, Márton Hergovich, was a municipal judge. The farmer who was born in Ólmod in 1898 was already at the forefront of valor in the First World War, enlisted in the 13th Battalion, fought on the Russian front and then on the Italian front, for his service Charles was awarded a medal of imperial and royal valor. Of his six children, his son, the father of the present mayor, was also in Russia in another world war because he came home from the Don turn. So Márton Hergovich was a respectable man who always wanted to do something for Ólmod as a municipal judge, president of the fire department. Thus did Alajos Fehér, innkeeper and butcher, who was also a member of the Sopron County Legislative Commission. It is also worth mentioning the Roman Catholic cantor teacher József Gaál, who fought for four years in the world war. I would also like to highlight the farmer Károly Kolerits, who was a member of the town council for a long time, who worked as a judge. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to Paul Merisch. The three of them lived with that name at the time, all three of them being good inhabitants of the village. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time of the feedback, the locals wore nice clothes, but the sequel was not always so colorful and cheerful. Although the locals did not feel much from the border for decades, as their land was next door, they went through to cultivate, but the world war came, and then the Iron Curtain. It's all about being on the border. The only way to enter the village was with a special license. As part of the technical border lock, the gate made of barbed wire, opened and closed by the border guard was directly at the Croatian fork, who wanted to turn towards the village, stopped and checked there immediately. Mayor Hergovich Vince said that in this regard his grandfather told him that during the years of the Communists there were arguments to repent of their actions, but he always told his grandson that he would live to thank and understand what they had done and why they had done. "Someday these Stalinists will disappear and the borders will open again," said Márton Hergovich, sometimes, and he was right. Ladies and gentlemen, It is time for us to bow our heads before them, before Márton Hergovich and his companions, before the Lolmodians, before the upper battles, before the Croat shooters, before the Nardans, before the pornapátians, before the St. Peters and the Iron Crosses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-195	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Szilágyi has just shared his thoughts with us in two minutes about Hungarianism and thinking about Hungarians and this feeling, so let me immediately share one of these with you, this weeping Hungarians. And that is how I stand on this agenda, too, that I feel this weeping comfort, because I am partly pleased with this proposal, and partly I feel completely unworthy of the circumstances in which this has come before Parliament. Overall, we must say that we are practically here, who have come to a committee meeting, ten hours ago in Parliament, about the days of flags, about the villages of loyalty, while at 10 o'clock we begin to debate how the Sunday closure of all the citizens of Hungary will happen, and then we will try to exchange ideas with the four of us who will stay here.
u2014-12-03-196	Congressman, I'd like to ask you to get to the agenda.
u2014-12-03-197	Yes, of course, Mr. President. The LMP believes that the bill on the villages of fidelity, St. Petersburg, Ólmod, Narda, Felsőcsatár, Croatian shooter, Iron Cross and Pornopáti are worthy of recognition, since their perseverance showed that they were serious about belonging to the national community; that they did not want to forget their identity even when it may seem more useful. However, after a general debate, if you will allow me, Mr President, I can compare the presentation to the sinking of the Titanic when the band continued to play, because there is a strange, tragic absurdity in that, while the country is in many respects on the brink of collapse with many rural areas and small villages, we consider it important to do so. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including: You are demagogue! Come on.]] [[17.50]] I look forward to hearing in a speech what exactly will make it better for the municipalities, how it will give them more jobs, how the amount of public services will be better, what will help them to think about, and what is the particular reason why we had to bring this to Parliament now, after the governing parties have promised that there will be no legislation that will be such hasty, superficial work to submit such proposals. They want to give respect and appreciation to some settlements, while there are virtually problems with the wording of the whole, the introduction of a text that does not contain errors and problems and must be submitted several times in such a way as to meet the basic minimums at all. Of course, the LMP will support the proposal, it is pleased that the Hungarian Parliament will honour these settlements, but it would only be happy if all the other settlements, which in many cases have been placed for Hungarians in many areas, were also honoured by the Hungarian Parliament and the governing parties to address their issues and to deal with the migration of the population of small settlements, their problems at work, their social problems, their health problems, and all that is characteristic of today's Hungary. Thank you for the proposal, we support it, and we accept that this is the most important thing for the ruling parties. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-198	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros for a two-minute speech.
u2014-12-03-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr György Szilágyi, for your opinion. I welcome this opinion. Only inform your fellow Member - or if you don't, I'll do it now - about what I was talking about. After all, Congressman Szávay proposed in the committee that the sentence in the draft law, which reads as follows: it remembers Hungarians with German and Croatian lips, should be taken out of the word "." and leave this to the population with German and Croatian lips. I implied that I would ask for this in the name of these people, because those people were Hungarians, even if you would make this amendment for an actual political purpose, which I would reject. It is difficult to reply to Mr Sallai's speech without emotion. You know, Congressman, that's why many of you, perhaps not by chance, are considered to be the successor party of the SDS. Congressman, why don't you go to St. Petersburg and Olmod to see the people we're talking about and say those words to their eyes? If they even let him into these villages. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-03-201	Thank you very much. Mr Gyopáros, I am sorry that you do not want to understand what I am saying, and I strongly reject that, so that you can see any intention of an actual policy in this regard. This is what this is about: of course, when I made this proposal in the Committee on National Inclusion, which was also accepted and agreed with the members of the Party of Government sitting there - I would like to stress this - I did not intend to deny the Hungarian or Hungarian consciousness of these people, in the case at hand, but rather by turning back that we do not want to call ourselves Hungarians who did not consider themselves Hungarians, because in the course of the presentation we could hear it - I think another Member - that a large number of Germans and Croatians lived in that area, and even lives to this day, who, by the way, very many of them voted in favour of Hungary. In fact, I will go further: when I mentioned this at the committee meeting, Mr Szászfalvi, a little misunderstood, even made a firm request to him that we now mop up nationality and the mother tongue or the spoken language. I think that if we want to stick to this wording at all costs, we will do nothing better than János Kádár when he was in Târgu Mureş in 1958, and he said that he knows that there are Romanians speaking Hungarian in the crowd. So, this is a very sensitive question, Congressman. I want you to understand my intention in this, and you don't want to bring out an actual policy, because of course that's not what this is about. But just as everyone in Hungary does not belong to the Hungarian nation, because we have national communities and minorities, so it was in 1920-21, and so it is now in the surrounding successor states, where most Hungarians would, of course, be the biggest insult if we wanted to consider them Romanian or Slovak. In the light of this, I would ask that you understand my proposal on this point, or, more specifically, the proposal of the Committee on National Inclusion. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-202	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Gyopáros to be slower and clearer, because he clearly did not understand, and to read our party's position once again. LMP believes that the proposed laws on the villages of fidelity - St. Petersburg, Ólmod, Narda, Felsőcsatár, Croatian shooter, Iron Cross and Pornopáti - are worthy of recognition, as they have shown by their perseverance that they were serious about belonging to the national community, and that they did not want to give up their identity even when it might have seemed more useful. That was our position. To the attitude that if you don't like something, you're gonna want to start SDS right away, I don't know what to say. I thought the government referrals were unworthy. I told you about the settlements that you should support. If you don't like it, you're coming with the SZDSZ as many of your party partners, even though Fidesz is the only one like the SZDSZ in the dissipation, and you're the only one who's going to get the problems of Hungarian society in the same order of importance as the SZDSZ, so you should look into what you're bringing to Parliament! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, According to the house rules, I will not give you the opportunity to speak for another two minutes, unless there is another round, I would have the opportunity to do so, but in this situation I cannot do so. Dear Parliament, I am asking if there are any other factions whose representatives would like to take the floor on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] No. The general debate is closed. I will ask Minister Csaba Hende, as rapporteur, if he wishes to close. [[Csaba Hende: No, thank you.]] Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws on the public media service and the media market will follow until closure. Independent motion by Mónika Dunai and Bence Tuzson, Fidesz, Members T/2189. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur on the agenda, and at the same time I announce that the representative of the Government has indicated in advance that he does not wish to speak in the debate. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-03-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With this amendment, we want to achieve three goals that we consider very important. Our first goal is to have the structure of public media, its structure is cheaper, more transparent and simpler. Our second goal is to provide opportunities for innovation, development, and the possibility for public media to launch new channels in the future. Our third goal is to finally conclude the debates on media law in the European Union that have developed in recent years. Our present proposal contains a number of provisions to further harmonise European and Hungarian media rules. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill amending certain laws relating to the public media service and the media market includes a total of three amendments. [[18.00]] The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication is overwhelming. It concerns the provisions of law, i.e. the Media Act. In addition to the Media Act, the proposed law is the LXXIV of 2007 on the rules of the digital changeover. Act and Act CVIII of 2011 on Public Procurement It contains proposals for amendments to a provision of law. Basically, the proposal aims to bring about a restructuring of the public media system, in particular in terms of economy, cost-effectiveness and innovation, on the basis of a thorough consideration and evaluation of the practical experience of nearly four years since the entry into force of the Media Act. From now on, the amendment also envisages a number of changes that are of direct benefit to the public. For example, two more should be made available free of charge to all as part of the basic package in addition to the public service channels that the broadcasters have been obliged to transmit so far. The proposal intends to amend the obligation to subscribe to programmes taking into account the common interests of the relevant social group and media service providers and the requirements of rationality. In the following, I would like to describe the essential elements of the bill in detail. The Media Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2011, regulates the public media system in such a way that the public service tasks are performed by four public service media service providers acting as separate companies. These are: Magyar Televízió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Rádió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Telegrami Iroda Nonprofit Zrt. and Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. The economic and cost-efficiency considerations mentioned earlier and the elimination of unnecessary duplication all justify the merger of these four companies. I think it is important to note at this point that structural changes do not affect the exclusive ownership position of the Public Service Foundation and the scope of public service tasks to be performed by the new public service media service provider and the issue of media independence. The name of the public media service provider named by the amendment - Duna Media Service Provider Nonprofit Zrt. - refers to the fact that the Hungarian public service media considers the strengthening of national cohesion and social integration as a priority task, the service of the cultural needs of Hungarians across borders. In terms of the practical implementation of the merger, the bill chooses the way that the other three companies merge with the current Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. through the merger. This form of transformation ensures that companies do not cease to have legal successors and that the continuous performance of public service tasks is ensured. The proposals in the legislative amendment therefore make public media management and its operation cheaper, more transparent, simpler and, not least, predictable and predictable. Technological development and the proliferation of new types of services make it necessary to integrate human and material resources within the framework of the joint economic company and to make better use of them. As a result of the merger, the performance of the Public Service Foundation, which exercises exclusive ownership rights, will also become much more effective, since it will no longer have to monitor the operation of four companies, but only one company. Among the tangible and tangible results of the planned changes for the public can be quality programming, continuous expansion of the supply of services and the use of new technology tools, which are necessary for the digital world. The amendment concerns, as a result of the merger of the four companies, the financing and management of the public media system, including the function and composition of the Civil Service Budget Council. The number of bodies currently seven is down to three. Its primary task is very similar to that of the past, with so many differences that the source's position is broken down by type of service, not by individual public media service providers, but by the fund's proposal on the amount to be used for the production and acquisition of media content. In short, the proposals for amendments mentioned above aim to ensure that the public media system is fully able to fulfil its public service mission. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, the proposal also includes a number of innovations, which are also in the service of the above-mentioned objectives. These new elements include a proposal that requires the public service media service provider to draw up an annual strategic plan. Of course, you can do this at more frequent intervals if you think so. Within this framework, it should examine and assess the development possibilities of the services provided by the public media service provider. The long-term aim of planning is to enable the production of valuable and high-quality media content and the dissemination to the wider audience, while continuously monitoring technological changes, public service values and international regulators. Another novelty of the proposal concerning the activities of the public media service provider is the introduction of public service measurement [[Zoltán Lukács: That's good.]] on the basis of which the compliance of public media with the requirements of legislation and European regulators should be regularly examined. In addition to ratings and listening, the procedure that has long been applied in many countries of Europe requires the establishment and regular application in the future of internal regulation capable of measuring the public service character of certain services, i.e. their value with the greatest objectivity. In the context of these innovations, in summary, they serve as the basis for the predictable, predictable and high-quality performance of the public media system and ultimately the needs of the public and the expectations of the public. I believe that the proposal for an amendment to the public media system, as outlined above, is a worthy conclusion to the ongoing debates between the European Union and Hungary over the last few years, harmonising and further harmonizing domestic media regulation with the EU's legislation and with the unwritten and other international standards. In connection with the property management activities of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, the amendment is consistent with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the National Property Act. The regulation of the fund's assets is currently in the hands of the Media Council with the entry into force of the Media Act, but this level of regulation is no longer appropriate to the rules of the National Property Act that will enter into force. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the rules on the management of public property, the exercise of ownership rights with it be adopted in a uniform manner and within the limits laid down by the law on national assets. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also in the interest of society that the provision of the bill, which requires broadcasters operating a digital transmission system, i.e. a non-limited transmission system, requires that the two additional audiovisual channels of the public media service provider, if they otherwise transmit such a programme, will be transmitted free of charge in the future in HD capacity. This point of the proposal - in line with the guidelines of the European Council - aims, in particular, to facilitate access to the general public as widely and as possible to the digital technology acquis applied by the public media service provider. [[18.10]] The proposal also contains different provisions in the light of the specificities and specialities of the state assets entrusted to the Fund. Such special provisions are not uncommonly contained in other, primarily sectoral, laws. They should therefore be defined in the Media Act in respect of media assets. The amendment explicitly mentions that the function of the sphere of assets is to support the public media service. The proposal considers transparency and equal opportunities as a key principle. For example, in the case of the exploitation and sale of the property, the obligation to tender is maintained. A further mandatory element is the use of the valuer in the case of sales, the writing of contracts and the registration of state assets. With regard to those employed in the context of the public media service, the proposal takes into account that the production of public media content and the provision of news agency activities are a creative process involving a wide range of activities for the same purpose of producing media content. As with other creative activities, rules should apply to the employment of media content production which, in addition to the legal guarantees, can take account of the specific working procedures and the actual characteristics of the activities of the employees, the specific features of the area, the traineeships and the load capacity of the employees. [[He's taking a moment's break. Zoltán Lukács: That's enough!]] Public media services are a basic service that meets the social need, and one of the most important social expectations is the continuity, continuity and topicality of information. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: And his balance! Zoltán Lukács: That's stupid! The president's ringing the bell.]] In view of these aspects, it is therefore appropriate that workers in the public media service system involved in content production processes should be subject to specific labour law rules. The proposal also proposes a number of amendments to media content in media services. In the context of programme quota standards, taking into account the practical experience of the past nearly four years, it proposes to modify the rates for public audiovisual media services to a reasonable level in terms of programme time for presenting European works purchased from independent programme makers not more than five years ago. However, the recognition of the activities of digitisation of media service providers in order to preserve cultural results can be mentioned in the same way, which makes it appropriate to recognise as a new work, according to the definition of the law, works of sound quality that have been improved as a result. In addition, the amendment proposes to clarify the obligation to subscribe to programmes accessible to hearing impaired media service providers in line with the requirement of rationality. With regard to practical experience as well as the assessment of feedback from media service providers and the relevant social layer, it is essential to further focus the legal requirements for the subtitles of live programmes in order to achieve the objective pursued. On the one hand, the proposals for amendments to the public media assets and the archives of the public media service provider clarify that the exercise of ownership rights of the fund covers elements of public media assets that constitute public property. On the other hand, they contain other clarifications and minor changes based on the practical experience of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress here that the archives and the archives managed by MTVA are a public collection, a national treasure, which we have a duty to preserve. Proposals concerning the interpretation provisions of the Media Act are essentially technical clarifications and minor amendments. Perhaps I should highlight the amendment to the definition of the public media service, which then explicitly states that the public service media service provider also carries out online content services in the spirit of innovation in addition to traditional media services. Finally, allow some thought to be given about the timing of the transformation. In addition to providing sufficient time for the process of merging companies, the bill also seeks to provide the necessary framework for its swift implementation. The main element and purpose of the regulation laid down in the transitional provisions is to ensure that the transformation can take place by the date laid down by law, i.e. 1 July 2015. In order to achieve this, the proposal sets a shorter period of time compared to the general rules. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I believe that, in addition to its positive impact on the functioning of public media in a number of respects, the bill described in detail above contains more favourable provisions for viewers and students, as well as for those on the media market. In view of this, I would ask you to support and, if possible, add additional proposals to the amendment of the law. I look forward to your compliments, any intention of amendment. Thank you very much for your patience and attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-03-206	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The creation of a bill amending certain laws relating to the public media service and the media market has been required by the practical experience of recent years. As we have already heard from the rapporteur, the proposal was drawn up with full regard for social needs in terms of economy, cost-effectiveness and innovation. The structural reform of the public media system fully serves these objectives. The four companies, the already listed Magyar Televízió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Rádió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Telegrami Iroda Nonprofit Zrt. and Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. In addition to making the system work cheaper, more transparent and simpler, it is also in the direct service of Hungarian society. I think it is important to emphasise a number of things again; that structural changes leave the position of the Public Service Foundation exercising exclusive ownership rights over the current four media service providers and the scope of public service tasks laid down by law untouched. The proposal also seeks to reflect, in the name of the newly created public service media service provider, one of the most important missions of public service, if not its most important mission, namely: to strengthen national solidarity and social integration, thus, of course, serving the cultural needs of Hungarians across borders. As regards the actual implementation of the process of transformation, the bill essentially addresses two aspects. On the one hand, so that the integration is not felt by the public, i.e. the production, production and delivery of media content to the public should be carried out continuously and without interruption. On the other hand, it was an important objective in drafting the proposal to ensure, of course, that these transformation processes were implemented as quickly as possible within a reasonable framework. [[18.20]] This latter objective is intended to be effectively implemented by providing for periods shorter than the general deadlines set out in the transitional provisions. At the same time, the bill contains a number of aspects of innovation and its future-oriented nature. On the one hand, it takes into account, in addition to the results of technological developments, the proliferation of new types of media services and the associated changes in media consumption patterns. The planned amendment will bring tangible and tangible results for the public, and will be able to keep up with the development of public media and the digital age in addition to quality programming and continuous expansion of service supply. Dear fellow Members, It is absolutely necessary to highlight the innovation instruments set up by the bill and to say once again: one is strategic planning and the other is the introduction of value measurement. In the long term, the results of measures to support the long-term predictable and high-quality functioning of the public media will, in our opinion, be felt by the public as soon as possible. The continuous monitoring of technological changes and their integration into daily operation should be a fundamental objective for public media service providers. In addition, the bill aims to create a clear position in ordering media content, production and distribution of related tasks. The public media service provider is entitled to order and produce media content. The Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund provides full support in the performance of its tasks. In addition to structural changes, the bill also concerns the daily media service activities of the public media service provider, which also takes particular account of society and its directly affected groups. These include, for example, making hearing-damaged rules mutatis mutandis and clearly more life-threatening or developing technical conditions that already provide higher and better access; or the provisions for rationalising programme quota obligations may be mentioned. In addition to the amendments outlined, it is in the interest of the public that they are fully in line with the fundamental directions and requirements of EU and other international organisations concerning media regulation. Well, let us therefore trust that there will be positive feedback after the adoption of the proposal as I hope. The proposal concerning the property management activities of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund serves to ensure consistency with the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the National Property Act. The fundamental law on national assets was established in the light of the provisions of Article 38 of the Fundamental Law. The proposal will take into account the specific features of the State's assets entrusted to the Fund and, where justified, the different provisions. It does not directly affect the public, but we also consider it necessary to establish labour law rules for workers involved in the production of media content, taking into account the experience gained in recent years. The specifics of the production of public media content, as a creative process, which facilitates the enforcement of public service objectives, cannot be ignored when assessing the activities of persons in this position. Special working procedures and the actual characteristics of the activities of the employees involved, the specificities of the area, should also be reflected in the legislation. It must not be overlooked that public media services are news agency work and, as such, an activity that satisfies one of the most important needs of society. In view of this, it is certainly appropriate to adopt specific forms of labour law and standards. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, To sum up, therefore, the adoption of a proposal concerning the public media service system, the activities of the workers working in it and, consequently and not least, the essential needs of the public, the enforcement of adequate information, will result in positive effects for all players in the media market. In the light of all this, I ask you to support the adoption of the amendments contained in the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and Gentlemen, This law is about transforming the propaganda department of Fidesz, what you call public media. I think you can call it a public media in so far as it's in public property, but if it's in the public interest or if it works as a classic public media, there are debates between us. Now the public media will be rebuilt, while on 1 January 2011 the whole thing was fundamentally transformed, the MTVA - the trust fund - was established, and then the Hungarian Radio, Television, Duna Television and MTI were merged. They put him under one leadership, and they said that this would eliminate unnecessary parallels. Now I hear they're eliminating unnecessary parallels again. Then they either didn't charge for unnecessary parallels, or they've made unnecessary parallels since then, or they've got the wrong paper. These are the only three options. It is said that the work of the public service will certainly be more effective. In fact, what I hear again is that it will lead to savings in centralized programming and administration, and they also said - hearing criticisms - that this system is the best system in place for the operation of public service media. That's from you. But the practice didn't confirm that. You have not operated this system at all cheaper, you have not operated this system more efficiently at all, and you have not fulfilled all the expectations and promises you have spoken of. In one thing, obviously, your political interests are served by this system. It's very clear. But other than that, he didn't live up to his expectations in any way. You have been pumping more and more money into this system, and more and more money has come out almost uncounted, almost unnecessary. Hundreds of millions of forints, hundreds of millions of forints have been thrown out of circulation in recent years. Let's watch the Fábry show, which will cost taxpayers another 440 million forints next year - 440 million! - while in recent years this programme has cost taxpayers 1.7 billion forints in total, and we see that, by the way, its ratings are constantly falling. Where's the cheaper public media? Where's the savings? You can't see it in here. Then there's your court singer, Ákos, who can make up the signatures of the Hungarian Television - which a 6- to 8-year-old can still make up on a xilophone, so... [[A voice from the benches of Fidesz: Elegant! Elegant!]] As any major group member could produce these wonderful works for the Hungarian public media for 26 million HUF plus VAT. [[18.30]] Where's the cheaper operation? It's not visible. Then there's the wonderful series Martians, which even the person who did it didn't actually look at, according to the polls, but they quickly paid 841 million forints. Nearly 850 million forints were paid for a failed television series! I ask you, where's the cheaper public television? Then Rákay Philip's wonderful idea of. Home or - Hungary I love you! The program, which was on the air the week before, could not be included in the 20 most watched shows - the 20 most watched shows! - while this is the only day of Magyar Television, this only transmission cost the taxpayers 992 million forints and the dog did not watch. I'd like to ask you where the cheaper public service is. Where's the cheaper public service? ! Stealing, but there's no cheaper public service. Then we watch the news shows, where all professional and ethical norms are violated, where there is no balance, where there is no equality of opportunity, where government propaganda is taking place, but even the most disgusting kind, because remember, for example, when the President of the Supreme Court was retouched, then the entire news department of MTVA was entrusted to the Dániel Papp, who did this by the way, who had a court record a few days ago, that he could be called a forger, because that's what he was called in the media. He sued them, and the Hungarian court decided that he was a forger, so now he has a document that he is a forger, and you have appointed him head of the entire news department. Now, these are the results of this fantastic merger. You have made this from Magyar Television, and while you are talking about how cheap it has become and how much cheaper it will be, you have been able to spend more than 100 million forints on creating a new image of public media. The design of the new image of the public media consisted of drawing circles and drawing one, two or three straight lines, in some cases a wavy line. They spent 100 million forints on this! [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] You're nervous, Congressman, if you think you can deny that that's not the image, circles and lines of public television. It's not that complicated, a better kindergartener can do that, believe me, at a cost of over 100 million. And you spent 100 million. They said that changing the image is also the first stage in social media. Now, that's the first stop, they drew the circles and the lines, and then the social media was stopped there at the first stop, and he didn't, unfortunately, move on. It's been two years, but unfortunately, this social media thing doesn't want to happen, but they've managed to destroy the workers' community the way they were. Since 2011, three major cuts have been carried out in the public media, MTVA, while the state aid has continued to increase. I would like to point out here that it has been said several times by both the rapporteur and the Fidesz lead speaker that the media has become cheaper and cheaper, while next year's budget is increasing, and every year the amount spent has increased, but hundreds of people have been fired. In the summer and autumn of 2011, almost a thousand people were dismissed, 200 additional workers were put on the street at the beginning of 2013, and today, too, there are cuts in the public media, of course mainly on a political basis and on a political basis. Many professionally well-prepared, otherwise popular programmers and hosts have been removed, as they say, for political reasons. So we see the result: they've made this public media an over-invoicing, wasteful paying place, but you've always protected this mess, you've said it's as good as it is, and you deserve to pour the money into it uncounted. And now representatives of Mónika Dunai and Bence Tuzson slammed on each other's foreheads on a gloomy autumn afternoon, and two of them came up with a way to reconfigure the public media system. This is a joke, by the way, two jokes, that this is being brought in again as a motion for self-representation, and the other joke is that, in such a degree of public media transformation, you have to tell the President in charge of this House that the government says that he does not wish to comment on this case, even though it would have been good for the government to comment on it, because the government has a significant responsibility in this case. Obviously, Bence Tuzson and Mónika Dunai have less responsibility than the government, but the government is not willing to speak in this matter. So, they submitted this motion to unite the four major public media, Duna Media Provider Nonprofit Zrt., now it will be called. Obviously, the name is one thing, how it works is another question. Now is the point where we should decide, obviously, what I have already said, that it wasn't true that the media service was working well the way it is, or it will not be true after that, because we have heard what I just quoted, that there is no better media service, and that all criticism is completely unfounded, because they come here themselves, that they need to be transformed based on experience. Clearly, then, the criticisms that we have already said or those who criticized have not been unfounded. So, MTVA has always been a politically-managed organization, and it is likely that it will be, because, reading the draft law, there is no progress in this case, there will still be nothing more public service in this case. You say that they will measure public service. Well, then we have to start from scratch, because right now, at least in the field of news, the minimum of public service is not hit by Hungarian public media, but this is because of those who serve you politically there, or those who make them do so. The new labour law rule has now been written in the law that 400 hours of extraordinary work can be ordered at the new, combined public service media service provider. It is clear that the two Members who submitted this obviously did not agree with the representatives of the workers there, and obviously they have now figured this out on their own, so that 400 hours of extraordinary work can be ordered. This means that every day one and a half hours of extra work can be committed to those who work there. Obviously, it's also about keeping the leash tighter, obviously it's about having the greatest influence on the workers there, and the greater the impact that they can have on jumping around the way you whistle. It's obvious, it's obvious. After that, the fact that a request for a quarter of the employee's basic freedom is not required to be taken into account by the employer is neither an employee-friendly measure nor a family-friendly measure. And in the matter of the next Sunday's opening hours, you will obviously argue that you are doing everything because of workers' rights. After that, workers' rights should also be dealt with a little bit more. The law also states that the new organization has a single CEO, that's good, but it also says that this single CEO can appoint an unlimited number of deputy CEOs. This is obviously again about the fact that more fidesz buddies will be able to be placed in the public media as vice-CEOs, because if they weren't, you would have been more specific about what this organization looks like. If there is a CEO and we tell him that he can appoint any number of deputy CEOs in a public media, then it is obvious that someone has to be placed again, again a few hundred million forints can be applauded in the case of public media. It was also written in the law that in the future any public institution may disclose information of public interest without any consideration. What is information of public interest, of course, will be decided by the people there. It also has to be translated: this means that before the elections, Fidesz can campaign virtually as much free in the public media as it wants, because at most they will say that this applies to this point, and this is information of public interest. The range of procurements that will not be subject to the competitive obligation will also be increased. Again, this means that more money will be able to be played out in the public media, and there will be something to play out, because their annual budget is again above HUF 80 billion. 80 billion forints, that's a lot of money! From HUF 80 billion, for example, all teachers could increase their salary by 25 percent, or almost all hospital debt could be paid out of HUF 80 billion. With HUF 80 billion, each pensioner could raise his pension by HUF 2500. [[18.40]] I'm not saying that this 80 billion should be spent entirely on this, I'm only saying this so that about everyone can feel how much money they're pouring into this bottomless bag, and then Rákay Philip spends a billion in one day - in one day! - to applaud a show, or to be able to produce a series that no one has watched on this television that is paid 850 million forints, and otherwise no one will be held responsible for it, because otherwise it was just a little nuance, and a billion forints were quickly thrown out there for that show. So we need more money in this budget than we can call this public service, but you call it a public media, but you seem determined to applaud 80 billion forints again. In fact, I see now that you want to create new channels, because you think - and you can see it - that busy public television is not enough to strengthen your lies, now people don't believe you, they're losing their popularity, they're trying to create two more channels to see if they can push their party propaganda on two more channels, then maybe this will be good. I'm telling you, it's not gonna get any better, it's just gonna cost you more. So we will not vote in favour of this bill. We're not gonna vote for another 80 billion to be abducted, and we're not gonna vote for a party media. Rather, steps should be taken to create a real public media in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr President Novak, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. I would also like to announce that, following the keynote speeches, the representative of the Government will have the opportunity to speak; I have indicated this to the Secretary of State. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-03-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This 30-page salad bill shows that there is a complete lack of concept and haste in the media policy of the government, the media policy in which the government is trying to wash its hands, constantly stressing that it is an autonomous body of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Council. Therefore, no interpellation or question can be addressed here - not even as much as, say, to the Attorney General, although the interpellation there has been terminated - let alone to the government, to the President of the Authority. So in fact, with regard to all the many problems that characterize the media - and this is also a very serious issue of power for you - it is no coincidence that this was the first one that was touched in 2010, rather than any other serious issue concerning the serious subsystem of the budget, because it was their first task to invade the media, and although in a hasty and hasty way, it was by making a very long law of rubber paragraphs that forced the media to self-censor themselves and, unfortunately, blackmailing not only the public service, but indeed all other commercial media - we are trying to improve this salad law with ten amendments. For Jobbik is always constructive in every proposal, even if this proposal takes a very different direction than what Jobbik wants, and there are a lot of issues that we cannot submit as an amending proposal, but here we can complain about in the debate of this comprehensive salad law, what is unfortunately not provided for in this proposal, but we should. One of our foundations is that, unfortunately, only Fidesz members of the Media Council, the most important body to monitor the media, while in its predecessor, the ORTT, all parliamentary factions had delegates. Indeed, this is a serious violation of the law, as if we were to say that now not only in the most important body controlling the media, but also in the main body monitoring the cleanliness of elections, the National Election Committee, only members of Fidesz would be included in the future, and even in the ballot counting committees - this would be just a step further. Yes, even the delegate of the KDNP - and they would have had a candidate - was thrown out because they knew that this was one of the most important bodies for you. A judge of the Constitution can only accept a KDNP delegate sometimes, but to the Media Council? No way! It is only the spirit of KDNP that they did not speak against this in 2010, and they gave their votes to two thirds, even without KDNP being included in this body. But more importantly, which would show the media a more serious control than a KDNP delegate if the opposition had played a role in this, but they kicked out the media law that you voted for, even during the Horn government, by two-thirds, with fidesz votes, which said that yes, every parliamentary force should have a place in the most important media control body. And so that their electoral passwords are -. Just the Fidesz! For example, in the case of the Media Council, we should not be surprised that they do not act against the most serious infringements. We could provide long examples of what media violations we may be experiencing here, but let me just mention one of the largest, and even the largest, which also calls into question the functioning of democracy as a whole. And this is a ban on the legal requirement for balanced information, against which we cannot speak even to our interpellation framework on the weekdays of the National Assembly, let us say during television broadcasting times, because, as I mentioned earlier, this is a banned question, the government is washing its hands, saying that it has nothing to do with the issue, there is an autonomous body to which we can turn in a letter or we can discuss at night, let us say, the Media Council's annual report, as we did yesterday, that there was no other speech after the speech of the head speaker, since it was emptyed, impossible to hold debates, and even the KDNP and LMP did not put a lead speaker in these empty debates to the latest annual report of yesterday. This is why the most serious infringement could have been the failure to comply with the legal requirement for balanced information, which the Media Council unfortunately leaves without consequences, although for some time it would have had an obligation to act ex officio. And I've demanded it here and there in the annual accounts, until there were no consequences to my demands. But it was not because, let us say, we had reprimanded the Media Council - as I did with an amendment proposal, we would have drawn their attention to their legal obligation with at least one sentence - but the consequence was that I referred to this paragraph until they had taken it, and they abolished the whole requirement that the Media Council should act on its own initiative in this matter, and yes, whether it be with fines or sanctions, that the broadcasts of television and radio should be balanced, because not only on public services, but on all televisions and radios, I think it is also legitimate that the regulation in force should function in a balanced manner. This one's been compromised, too. At one time, this kind of regulation, which is in the media constitution, was called versatile, finally called balanced, which is clearly understood to mean that His Majesty's opposition, MSZP, is represented, while on the other hand, Fidesz is given an opportunity in the media, but they do not even fulfil it, and after they have abolished its obligation to act on its own initiative, virtually nothing happens. 90 percent of complaints are submitted to the Media Council by Jobbik, but for example, they are swept down by reference to editorial freedom or because balance in the stream of programmes cannot be forced out. Otherwise, it might also be necessary to amend the law, because at present silence can be achieved by the Media Council only looking at specific broadcasts of specific programmes following specific complaints, while the whole of the programme does not, and balance must be interpreted as such - and that is why often relief decisions are taken - that a given programme, if not balanced, should be examined, but the whole of it cannot be complained of. It would therefore be necessary for serious substantive changes to be made to the media law, for example, but the consequences are not these, but, if we refer to the requirement of balance, as I am now, it may be next that this will be abolished. You may not dare to do this because the European Union would have a word for this, which we are not particularly interested in, but you are so capable of amending even the Fundamental Law which best embodies the sovereignty of our nation as the European Union whistles. When we Jobbikos represented a million Hungarians, we gave professional criticisms about the media law, for example, they were all wiped out. When, literally or in part, there was a proposal, which the European Union literally expressed in the same way, they were willing to accept later. I think that this is not national cooperation, but rather a system of international cooperation, and it is not the national sovereignty that is expressed by the Hungarian Parliament, if you are so political. I trust that there will be consequences in Hungary for a gross, general violation of balanced information. In the previous term, in addition to the above-mentioned amendments to the law, which affected the situation in a negative direction, all that happened was that I, while I could convene a meeting as Chairman of the Supervisory Sub-Committee of the Committee on Culture and Press, and even after I was able to reach a decision by unanimous opposition vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee's Supervisory Sub-Committee, in support of a general breach of the legal provisions on balanced information, with statistical data, so much change that they replaced the subcommittee. [[18.50]] Well, please, the fact that such political decisions are made instead of professional ones is completely far from Jobbik's policy. However, on a professional basis, if necessary, and so that I can convince you not with our own subjective intuition, let me bring the statistics of the Media Council of only Fidesz members here; not a withdrawn show, a lost week, but, generally, the major news programmes nationwide in a year-on-year comparison. If we look at the latest statement, according to the official statistics of the Media Council, for example, one of the grossest in magazine shows is the disproportionateness. Here, Jobbik gets 4.5 percent, that's what its appearances amount to, if we look at 100 percent not all the news, but all the political news, all the political appearances in the magazine shows. So they treat Jobbik not even as a party within Parliament, but as some kind of dwarf party, a force outside Parliament. And I say this, not as a better Member, but as a representative receptive to the truth and ready to speak against the greatest injustice. After all, the worst exclusion is for Jobbik. For example, DK is here, and we are also talking about the year 2013, when we cannot in any case call them parliamentary parties, yet it received 5.7 percent, much more in the media; or the Együtt-PM also received 7.9 percent in 2013 as opposed to 4.5 percent of Jobbik. While, in principle, with regard to its social strength, if I do not want to say that the second force is Jobbik, which I can back up with a number of data, we can safely say, I think, without debate, that MSZP and Jobbik were mostly head-sided, let's say, in 2013 under consideration. Despite this, his Majesty's opposition to 4.5 percent of Jobbik received 19.4 percent, so in fact more than four times as big in magazine shows from ATV to News TV, through public service media. So this gross violation of the law is what would require a change. And, of course, speaking of quotas, let me mention a few more quotas here. The criminal quota proposed in 2010 with my colleague Sándor Pörzse was not exactly as it should have been, so it would have been justified to settle it in this salad law. After all, although there has been a lot of talk about the adoption of a better proposal, indeed, we wanted to regulate the tabloid news into criminal news and maximize the criminal news by 20%, but on the one hand, we did not want the news about political crime to include it, and we did not want to limit it, even if it was unpleasant for you. I'm not talking about Gypsy crime because they don't talk about it in the media anyway, it's practically undetectable, banned. It is enough to recall that News TV was able to risk, for example, the address of the gypsy crime box for Kuruc.info when he reported on the Internet censorship a few years ago. They claimed that even the cowardly editor justified it, that according to the sections of the media law, this is now punishable. We've also lived by the fact that a news TV has been able to risk the word gypsy crime. Obviously, it's not a common practice on News TV, there's a reason who's going to say that today. The fact that this media law is made up of rubber paragraphs shows that even a News TV editor, who is not supposed to be a member of the Media Council of Fidesz members, is capable of doing so. But within the criminal news, there was a huge burst of accident reports. That is why I think it would be justified, and we have already suggested that the accident news be included in the 20 percent news quota. So interpretation of the law is the problem that the Media Council interpreted it too narrowly, and since we do not have an opportunity to speak there, we ask here to clarify the law, as we have already suggested, and indeed to count on accident reports. After all, the news not becoming news in the news has become quite common, not to inform people, but rather to entertain the news today. We have also been promised a quota of news across the border earlier, and this salad law does not seem to settle this issue either. But it's a five-percent piece of news, if we're serious about national cohesion, which means that every day, a piece of brief news, or not on-site coverage, should be a part of it, whether it's sports news or anything. However, it seems that they still do not want to do so. For example, if you look at the so-called Slovak news in an annual statement, this is 0.9 percent, and this includes the so-called Slovak news, which is not related to Hungarians abroad. We could continue the quotas for a long time, perhaps what this proposal is dealing with, it is moving things in the wrong direction, the issue of Hungarian music quota. I mean, you don't have to go too long in a 30-page law, it's already number three. § treats this issue extremely harmfully. Basically, from the existing quota, which would support the new Hungarian songs, they are trying to escape by digitally renovating old hits and selling them as new to the law. I think that this is an extremely harmful process. Based on the 2013 summary, we can see that the proportion of Hungarian music in 35 radios is still below 35 percent of the statutory requirement. What's the consequence? It's basically nothing. However, we were very pleased that this musical quota could be incorporated into the law at a relatively high level, since it did not start from here earlier, and the better proposal would have made it even higher. As such a compromise, he finally agreed on 35 percent. We were happy to do so, but we did not think that even Petőfi radio could fail to meet this quota. Not to mention that most of the radios reach this ratio in the dead time band with Hungarian music playing between midnight and 5:00 a.m. We could talk about news quotas and musical quotas for a long time, but because of the shortness of time, in my first speech, I would just like to say a few points in the headlines what we are missing from this law. For example, the ban on continuing fraud of esoteric programmes that abuse freedom of conscience. Or the protection of national symbols, the strengthening of national cohesion, which we still do not find in the provisions of the media constitution, should be included among the media's tasks. We would also like to establish a control of MTVA. The Public Service Foundation could be the manager to report to the CEO to make farming transparent. And last but not least, one that may fit in my time, municipal-owned media services and press products should also be regulated by establishing that the requirement of balance can be enforced and incorporated into law, as they are also a form of public service media. The law doesn't treat them that way, not even the Fidesz municipalities. Unfortunately, they treat these municipal media as their own party newscaster. Unfortunately, this is how national trends come back. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Once again, the governing parties would amend a law in such a way that they would not dare or want to take on its full political responsibility. The amendment of the law on the re-regulation of public media was submitted as a motion by independent representatives of Mónika Dunai and Bence Tuzson, which is why it is feared that, as in previous practice, it will be possible to hide behind the two thirds of its reassuring shadows who might be uncomfortable to stand for this amendment. Let us just remember the hearing of the European Commissioner Tibor Navracsics, when he said that the criticism of the media law came before the legislation only as an individual motion, and the original text did not reflect his personal opinion at any point. He also said, and now I quote literally, that the freedom and diversity of the media are key to democratic societies. I regret that, in the past, the Hungarian Government, of which I am no longer a member, has not given sufficient importance to this important aspect. In fact, Tibor Navracsics is no longer a member of the government, but this media law still hinders the freedom and diversity of the press, and the current amendment further increases the one-party control over public media and further undermines the transparency of public media. One of the most important objectives of the legislative proposal is that the merger of the three media public foundations would create the new public service media service provider, the Danube Media Service Provider, a Private Nonprofit Company, and its owner would be the newly established Public Service Foundation. Together with the organisational reorganization, they would resign from 100 to 200 employees. Since 2011, this has been the fourth group and even mass depopulation in the public media. So far, more than a thousand people have had to leave this body, while the state support of MTVA is increasing year after year. Next year there will be more than HUF 80 billion in public money for public service, public media. As a result of the transformations, the Public Service Foundation would not reduce its powers so far, so the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund can spend HUF 80 billion a year without any meaningful control. This will further increase the influence of government parties over public media, and will focus on personal, professional and financial decisions in one hand, and there will be no opportunities for multi-party, civil control or control. [[19.00]] This would be necessary, because the content broadcast by public media can be said for everything but what should be its main function, i.e. its role as a public service. Of these 80 billion forints, however, there is plenty of high quality, truly public service content. Instead, we see and receive a public media that is politically heavily influenced, inoperable, unfairly operating, inaccessible, barely viewed, barely performing its public service function for public money. It is decreasing, but it remains a significant outsourcing of the tasks of MTVA, which clearly provides an opportunity for corruption. Public funds, managed proposals for content services will remain available, and unnecessarily overpriced winning proposals will follow, as has been the case in recent years. Another interesting feature of the amending proposal is the two new chapters that exempt some cases from the national wealth and public procurement laws. The acquisition of technical tools for the production of media content would no longer be subject to the Public Procurement Act. But Fidesz's nearby companies do not have to worry any more, as from now on, the production capacity of MTVA will also be used without bidding. The proposal also allows all public media vehicles to be exempted from the obligation to pay tolls and for overweight and oversized vehicles to be able to travel freely in the country. Perhaps the most brazen thing is that they are cynically trying to justify this amendment on the grounds of freedom of the press and free information, i.e. you. With regard to public media as a whole, the proposal states that Sunday is now the same as the rest of the day in public media, while you are campaigning on the other side to spend Sunday with rest. If we understand correctly, everyone, except MTVA employees and many others, many, I add myself. Overall, restructuring will increase the unsanitary centralisation of public service news production, without restricting political control over public media in any way. At present, Hungarian public media will be the only one in Europe that operates without declaring publicly available editorial principles and editorial independence, with all the consequences, and this would not change on the basis of the new legislative text. I have read our party's position and I have presented it to the Honourable Parliament. I must say that I have listened with envy to the speeches by Jobbik and the MSZP. I think that it is a rare moment when I can agree so easily with opposition parties and two opposing parties at the same time. It is completely incomprehensible that public media and information are fully used as an instrument of power. In 2002, Fidesz certainly learned what it means to have a free expression, what it means if the media tries to inform the population more objectively, and approaches not only from one side but also from the other side. This 2002 experience has given us the fact that he now wants to fully control the entire media service to this extent, and I feel it is totally unacceptable that he wishes to implement the Fidesz campaign that my colleague, Mr President Novák, stressed, is Fidesz alone! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I think and it follows from the idea of democracy of the LMP that it is possible to build democracy not only by holding events called free elections at times, but also by giving voters all the information they need to know the consequences of their decision. At the moment, the consequences of these decisions are unknown to the electorate, and this is why you have three times this year's success in the elections. This is why voters are honoured to ensure such high support for the current governing parties. I think that obviously this power device is what they feel is the most important right now, and obviously it is not a coincidence what Tuzson Mr President, during this day you have been told that public media is also broadcasting from Parliament when it is not embarrassing for the ruling parties, there is public media service; when you can embarrass yourself, it is paused. It is completely incomprehensible to me that public media, where there is a real need for justice and democratic principles to prevail as far as possible, can serve the purposes of such a one-party system; that it could be so unfairly modeling a system against which you fought twenty-five years ago. Obviously, the May Other in Politics will not support these proposals in this form. My colleagues are working on amendments to see if something better can be done, but our experience so far is that we are obviously spending this time unnecessarily, unfortunately, they are mostly bleeding out in Commission processes. I'm asking you to consider what will happen if you don't be in power once in a while. What if they fail by accident and face the same media law when it becomes a completely different political power? I wonder what they'd say then. Because we should legislate on the aspect of how they would accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-214	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-03-215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, After the instructive speeches, allow me to state the government's position as well. I would like to point out first of all that one of the most important elements of the proposed amendment is not the transformation of the social background of the public media system. The public media system has changed several times over the last twenty years, and you have said so yourself, and is currently operating with four public media service companies, owned by the Public Service Foundation, following the 2010 transformation. Experience in recent years has shown that on the basis of economic and cost-efficiency considerations, it is appropriate to merge the four separate companies into one organisation. Accordingly, the petitioners initiate in the bill that the current Duna Television Nonprofit Zrt. merge with the other three companies, Magyar Televízió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Rádió Nonprofit Zrt., Magyar Telegrami Iroda Nonprofit Zrt., and Duna Media Provider Privately operating Nonprofit Company as the sole public service media service provider. The transformation results only in changes in the number and name of companies. The new company resulting from the merger requires the former four media service providers to perform all the public service tasks required by the law, and they will do so. The bill includes clarification and addition of the property regulations ensuring the professional performance of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund. They regulate the way in which ownership rights are exercised over media assets and the detailed rules for the management of these assets, in accordance with the fundamental property law maintained by the Ministry of National Development, in line with the principles laid down in the Property Act. The bill therefore lays down the rules governing the management of sectoral assets taking into account the general rules, the law on national assets and the law on state assets. The bill clearly states that the exercise of ownership rights of the fund covers elements of public media assets that constitute public property and, in accordance with the principles of the fundamental property law, identifies the basic purpose of the property as supporting public media services. This specific segment of national assets must therefore be managed in such a way as to fully fulfil its purpose. To this end, the bill retains the financial restrictions and restrictions set out in the Media Act, not to dissolve or mitigate them, but to further explain and define the fund's asset management framework. Instead of providing wealth management so far provided by the Media Act, the bill ensures that the public service media service provider acquires a user right which harmonises the background rules on public media assets, in particular the copyright rules, which clearly determines the content of the right. [[19.10]] The amendment reasonably determines the non-contractual obstacles and the associated termination entitlements to the Fund. The bill gives the fund the right to set up, or acquire a stake in, a company in a company, and to exercise membership and shareholder rights, on behalf of the Hungarian State, in order to provide the public media service. In addition to the rules on asset management and company law, the bill complements and amends media law rules affecting the functioning of the public media system in order to make it more efficient. In this context, making use of technological developments and meeting the expectations of the digital age, it provides that broadcasters operating the digital transmission system are obliged to transmit two additional public television channels in addition to the four public television channels so far. In addition to today's technological standards, this provision is considered proportionate and reasonable, only for broadcasters operating the digital transmission system, who are able to provide services on more channels than broadcasters using analogue transmission techniques as a result of the technology. As there are currently about a hundred Hungarian channels available to viewers, the six public television channels are not considered to be a disproportionately high number; for example, the English public media operates only with eight channels. The provision that broadcasters who provide high-resolution HD quality services are obliged to transmit public television channels to the audience in this capacity will also help to deliver technological developments. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the transformations in the legislative amendment, by merging the four companies, make the operation of public media more cost-effective, simpler and more transparent, which strengthens the control capacity of the Board of the Public Service Foundation. The proposal further harmonises Hungarian media regulation with the EU's expectations. Dear Parliament, The government agrees with the regulatory objectives of the bill, so I ask that, in addition to considering what has been said, T/2189. Please discuss and support bill No 1. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó, the first independent Member to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We have already discussed this at the Cultural Committee meeting, and we will continue the debate in more detail here at the plenary session, so I would like to give a little more detail on the opinion of the Együtt- Együttt - the Party of the Emeralders on this media law. The amendment submitted to this House cites the antitrust of the Kadár era. According to this, the Hungarian Television, the Hungarian Radio and the Hungarian Telegram Office would cease as an independent organization and would be merged into this Duna Media Service Company. Institutional autonomy has, of course, been a pretense, and the legislator has built a classic supervisory system above them with a curatorium for political and social control and a public service council. So, according to the draft, this particular mammoth institution is created, where it is justified that unnecessary duplication will cease. Since 2011, people in public media have heard this argument two times; if they hear this expression, they know that the era of firing is coming again. Unfortunately, of course, they will always be colleagues who find out that, say, they are forging news or, say, as they did this morning, that the poor children are not eating because they are certainly not hungry in the morning. The public media, if you would appreciate your own employees, would, of course, sit down with the unions and discuss the expected downsizings, if you are so eager to dismiss people - but of course you will not do that. This is a message for all employees: the government can at any time override labour law requirements. This is nothing new, of course, since we have heard from János Lázár, it is not mandatory to work at the Prime Minister's Office if you do not like the system; this also seems to apply to public media. The question is why does public media direct support increase to HUF 80.5 billion in this year's budget for the next year from HUF 77.9 billion, once the main goal is to eliminate parallels; I have not seen such cost savings, which results in an increase in costs. The next question is, who's gonna make a show in the future? What we see is that this bill is preparing to outsource the program. This is what we've heard about in the keynote speeches here, and we have exactly the same fear, and it certainly won't be surprising for us if this is something that's going to happen by chance to buddy companies. MTVA is muscular thanks to the amendment of the law. So far, he did not decide what the amount of cash laid down by law was spent on, this task was carried out by the Civil Service Budget Council, but, according to the proposal, the decision on the allocation of the budget will now be taken by MTVA. When the European Union expects public funds spent in public media to be supervised by an independent body, that is certainly not what it meant. In addition, MTVA will receive its own legal system - as we have already heard here - because it will not be subject to copyright law, labour law, property management rules, public procurement law, toll law or even the VAT law, only so that it does not interfere with its ability to develop; see counterfeiting, fraud and other news reinterpretation. The reason why the Tolls Act came here is simply incomprehensible, but my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict has already spoken about this in more detail. As an administrator of national assets, MTVA will practically at any time in the future be able to waive public tendering in the area of asset management. Of course, the law is more nuanced than that, but the conditions for restricted tendering have been formulated in such a way that they can be applied in virtually all cases. The assets of the public media service provider will fall into the hands of the State and the Fund. For example, it is well known that almost everything from the building of the Hungarian Radio Bródy Sándor Street has been moved to Kunigunda Street - if I know right, there are virtually only synchronized studios there - and we have been hearing for years that they are planning to sell the building. Now it's just a question of who looked for himself, which oligarch plans to build a hotel on Brody Sándor Street, for example, to give a current example. With the establishment of a huge mammoth institution, the question also inevitably arises as to what will happen to MTI, or whether it will be necessary for him to move away from the building at Napi-hegy tér - not in a bad place, by the way, I suggest to the attention of my friends - or perhaps without public tendering, one will be able to play it well. Perhaps the most spectacular element of the amendment of the law is the strategic plan of the public media and the chapter on the measurement of public service values. According to the amendment, the public media service provider creates a strategy each year, which serves as a basis for the functioning of the public media service and for cooperation between the public media service provider and the fund. This form of strategy does not make any sense at all for at least two reasons. Since the law tells us exactly how much public money is available to public media, there is no strategy that would not see it desirable to spend that much public money. The fundamental flaw in public media regulation is the pre-set budgetary framework, because this is neither effective nor encourages rethinking of public service functions, so we can certainly not talk about innovation here. The other reason why strategy-making is a fraud in this form is that it has no consequence, since the amount of budget support laid down by law is not affected. It has no influence either on whether public media should launch new content services or not, since this decision will continue to be taken by the Media Council. [[19.20]] The strategy will play a role in one place when a certain Civil Service Budget Council gives an opinion on the budget prepared by MTVA, but MTVA may also ignore the opinion of the Council, so the strategy will only influence budget planning at the discretion of MTVA. So it doesn't make sense. Similarly, there is no consequence of public service measurement. The Hungarian legislation would require an evaluation of existing services, and this does not have any consequences for the outcome of the evaluation. They would be necessary on their own, and the law should have been drawn up only in such a way that there would have been a meaningful consequence that they would be introduced. It would also be nice to know what the current head of public media would mean by public service. It is regrettable that strategy-making and evaluation must also be carried out in-house, public consultations and objective external evaluation are not mentioned at all. But after the NAV scandal, we're not surprised, because Ildikó Vida examined himself and found that everything was all right. In addition to the restructuring of the institutional system, the amendment also prepares the following penalty for commercial service providers after the advertising tax. According to the draft, digital broadcasters, i.e. three major operators, Digi, UPC and Telekom, as well as MinDig TV and satellite distributors, will be obliged to include two new channels of public media, on the one hand Petőfi TV, which will be launched on 15 March, and on the other hand, the sports television that will be used to mediate the fights of the football championship starting next August. This is also interesting because the information about Petőfi TV has gone out to the press that it will broadcast in the M2 place every afternoon, so it is not quite clear what other two channels are mentioned in the proposal. According to the justification, it is mandatory to put public TVs in the first place in the basic package so that the viewer can get their services first. In fact, all they do here is simply shift the government's responsibility away from itself to point out to the service providers: but they don't put RTL in the basic package, let's say, while he is forced to put few channels in the basic package, as the essence of the basic package is that there are few channels in it, in the wider package for which people pay more and more channels. So they occupy the place with the newly-built channels, and when someone complains that they can't even see RTL anymore, only the public televisions in which news frauds and forgery take place, then the government will spread their hands so that it is the service provider's fault, while this change of law can do so. The proposal is therefore another attempt to limit freedom of the media and free competition, since it does not allow channels to be classified on the basis of their own views and views. I would also like to point out that Fidesz is trying to legislate a new method of silence. Overall, it is perhaps no surprise that the representatives of the Joint Union will not vote in favour of this amendment. We will present an amendment, which is of a technical nature, which will at some point contain a small change, and the other point will include the withdrawal of all points from this amendment, so we would like to indicate that we do not agree at all with this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-03-218	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group.
u2014-12-03-219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When Secretary General Fó Nagy said the government's position, I had the impression that they actually wanted to vote for a large pile of amendments that would make the system better structurally and organisationally and make it more transparent, more efficient and simpler. I understand the arguments you have made, Mr. Secretary. I might add, but it's true for most of us at LMP that I don't know how to exercise power. So what I don't understand is why this is the individual motion of the poor Mónikas of the Danube, why the government doesn't submit one of these. If this is a government goal, then why hide it as a motion for a separate representative. I don't know what the point of this avatar behavior is, but I'll try to understand them. And one more thing came to my mind, listening to the other opposition speeches, namely that during today, more pro-government representatives than the villages of fidelity and the agendas before it told me about great-grandmother, grandmother. I was wondering if this abuse of power was something they would like to see if that was what the grandparents taught the pro-government people. This is entirely an abuse of a dominant position. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, perhaps a week ago, when we talked about the expansion of large multinationals and the mallstop, he did not say that Fidesz did not like to abuse a dominant position. Obviously, it was the malls then, not politics, but it would be so good if this non-love appeared in such a way a little more generously, and they created the opportunity to at least have some say in controlling these processes. That's what I thought I'd add to what I said earlier. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I shall give the floor first to the Member who has been notified in writing. Mr László Kucsák, Fidesz Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-221	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, for some thought, to address the honourable people in the context of what has been said so far. In my opinion, the head speaker of the MSZP has made a lot of negative rating comments in connection with people who are often absent. He's got a soul. Mr President Novák has given us, among other things, considerable thoughts on the accounts of the Media Council. In this context, I would like to say that although Jobbik can be offended by the percentage of magazine programmes being published, the report on magazine programmes states that there is little to blame for pro-government and opposition speeches. That's what I wanted to remember at the magazine shows. Just like he mentioned the proportion of Hungarian music. In the context of the proportion of Hungarian music, I also think that there is still a way ahead of us, and we need to move forward and progress on this. But the same report also states that this trend in recent years is an improving trend, which the Member obviously knows very well. To Mr Sallai R. Benedek's speech and last remark, I would like to say that, on the one hand, the Public Service Foundation does not need to be established, this public foundation already exists, as you obviously know. And in his two minutes, he made a comment about what the grandparents, great-grandparents, had taught him. This may be interesting and interesting to discuss, but perhaps we have not been taught to speak with our hands in our pockets. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to turn back to the presentation. The question arose - so let us start from here - why we need to amend the law now. What, then, is the goal? Making public media work more transparent and simpler by means of the legislative changes. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that shortly ago, on behalf of the Government, we heard from Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, that the particular part of the proposal is operational, and I would like to point out this further. Thus, the transformation is intended to be cheaper, because the four companies. In addition, a significant source can be released, which can be used by public media to produce programmes. The three Zrts. Its integration into Duna Media Provider Nonprofit Zrt. ensures more transparent and simpler management and operation. I would like to mention this later. There is a question as to why the name Danube remains. I think it's a great symbol, the Danube connects people, communities, cultures. It is recalled that Duna Television was established on 24 December 1992, which is for Hungarians in Hungary and abroad, symbolizing the national cooperation of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin and the world. I think this is the new one. It will bear the name of the Danube in a fair and worthy manner. In the same way, it is important that some people here have asked and even complained that there is the possibility of launching two new channels in this amending proposal, which I believe is important for the public service, for the public media to move forward, because innovation and experimental ideas can be allowed here, beyond what has already been said earlier. [[19.30]] Allow me, then, to return to what it looked like in the past and how it will look like in the future. Between 1996 and 2010, the public media system consisted of four broadcasters, four separate ownership bodies, an autonomous media authority - then ORTT - and a communications authority under the government. I will flash for a moment for the sake of my fellow Members who act as eagles at a distance. [[He's showing me a document. Forebod Novak: Violent! It's an illustration!]] - this is part of the written document, thank you, Congressman Novak - how many divisions this operational model was. Following the transformation of the public media system in 2010, four public media service providers are currently operating with the owner of the Public Service Public Service Foundation, but the Zrts have been significantly stripped of their former status, and the assets of the public media system which they have acquired in 2010 have been transferred to and owned by MTVA. The manager of the MTVA is the Media Council, the independence of the public media system is ensured by the existence of independent Zrt.s and their statutory status. Therefore, the public media system has been operating in this way since 2010 and the current intention to amend is to anticipate the following. A minor transformation of the public media system is this, the main element of which is the four zrt. It will be merged, so it will be a single company in the future. It'll work. The legal status of MTVA remains unchanged and the legal status of Zrt. This includes a more precise clarification of the relationship between MTVA and Zrt. It includes clarifying, tightening up the rules on the management, acquisition and borrowing of assets and amending media law rules which fundamentally affect the functioning of the public media system in order to ensure better functioning. In this way, if this amendment enters into force, then the remaining one Zrt. as regards its status and activities, the following can be said. The three Zrts. The company's legal integration takes place in Duna TV Zrt. as a result of which the remaining Zrt. name Duna Media Provider Nonprofit Zrt. Will do. The remaining company. provides all previous Zrts. its tasks, the main element of which is the ordering and receipt of content from MTVA. Its activities thus extend to TV, radio, online, news agency activities. Zrt. Its new legislative task is strategic planning, including format development, innovation, and so on, identifying future trends in the media, working with MTVA to implement the plans. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude by recalling two points from the explanatory statement of the proposal, and with this respect, I would like to recommend to Members that this proposal be taken to their attention. Firstly, the aim is to integrate both human and material resources within the framework of a single public service media service provider. They all contribute to the full fulfilment of the public service mission of the public media by making more effective use of it, in particular by maintaining quality programming, continuously expanding the supply of services and the use of new technical tools. To conclude, the proposal clearly sets out the type of services that the public media service provider must provide - radio, television, online, news agency - in the interest of society. As a novelty, the regulation proposes to introduce the so-called public service value test, which has been used for a long time in many countries of Europe, including the rapporteur, which requires that ratings and listening be called on and regularly applied to a methodological life that can measure the public service character, value of individual services with the greatest objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention and kindly consider what has been said when you draw up your position. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-12-03-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This is now the time-frame for the speeches made by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I'd like to respond to László Kucsák's words. What you didn't understand is that I indicated that, according to the house rules that you voted for, the illustration is prohibited today, so even the presentation of the bill could result in a fine. Of course, a pro-government representative doesn't have to be afraid of that, but since you voted in this way, I would recommend that you forbid it...
u2014-12-03-224	Congressman, I do not wish to hand over the leadership of this meeting to you. Please take this into account.
u2014-12-03-225	Of course, I am just arguing with my fellow Member, especially in view of the fact that I think it is appropriate, in a salad law, to object to what has not been included here in this subject, if you are already beginning to do a little hasty, of course, to change the media law and related laws. I believe that it is appropriate to quote from the annual report of the Media Council in order to demonstrate why the requirement for balanced information is not met. Of course, I can also bring you other statistics, if you, let's say, don't consider political magazine shows to be worthwhile or interesting, we can also look at the general news programmes. 76 percent of news broadcasts are pro-government in terms of speaking time, and let alone 76 percent, let's say, 50 percent, in this year's election. So the fact that they have two thirds of a disproportionate election system is one thing, but in comparison, we know that they didn't reach 50 percent, but the speaking time is 76 percent. So to say that the governing parties are not overrepresented, let's say that you have no responsibility in this, I think that's a bit hypocritical. I think that we do have a responsibility to put back into the law what has been taken out as a bit of revenge because of my many protests, that the Media Council must act on its own initiative in the matter of this violation. Right now, there's no sanction for breaking the law, we're a country with no consequences. The balance is not fulfilled! Or do you think it will be fulfilled? Well, let's talk about that. We can also see that, in terms of speaking time, the proportion of right-wing speeches is only 4.3 percent if we consider all political manifestations to be 100 percent. I quote Jobbik's data because Jobbik is the most seriously excluded. I think this is a serious problem, a violation of the law, and you leave it without consequences, and, in fact, without reply, so you didn't say a word about whether you were disturbed by the failure to comply with the media law in Hungary, and you didn't comply with the provisions of the media constitution. It bothers me. I want it to be a fairer system and it can function legally. And what I couldn't fit into my keynote speech, and if you've already stopped, unfortunately, the detailed debate, so that's the only way I can tell you what else we need to change this law, that's a few more points. László Kucsák didn't respond to any of my suggestions. I'm sorry if you haven't given me an answer. I would have liked it if, let's say, you didn't think it justified for local municipal media to introduce the requirement for balanced information or to consider it a problem, where articles are regularly published in the media, what problem is that esoteric programmes that abuse freedom of conscience can continue their fraud, shouldn't be regulated. Once again, you have not made any proposals for this. Nor was the cross-border news quota introduced, which I had previously been promised in the commission, and what is more, the criminal news quota that was supposed to be introduced does not work. So on these matters, and I have said a number of things, I have not yet received an answer, although it has the opportunity to respond to both the government and my fellow Members, if the question of balance is unpleasant or boring for you, then I have given you other issues, I think. I'd go further. Article 3 I have already said a few words about the article, and I also had to quote here to support the fact that the Hungarian music quota of 35 percent is not fulfilled. How do you deal with this violation of the law? Technically, they break the legal requirement, or they're not that honest or open, they're doing a loophole. But it's number three. The purpose of the legislative obligation originally laid down in § 5 was not to recognise digitalisation performance, or not to be recognised by the legislator, but to force media service providers to provide space for emerging performers and their new compositions through this requirement. If the amendment of the bill is thus accepted by the Parliament, the original purpose of the law will be destroyed, as in the future it will be possible to circumvent it by some real or even fake digital modernisation procedure. If that is the aim of the pro-government representatives, then instead, they should take up this idea and abolish the requirement for the broadcasting of new music works. [[19.40]] But let's move on to 3. I also have a problem with the 13th section, because it includes certain traffic restrictions in the media law. Some traffic restrictions do not apply to public media vehicles. Interestingly, it is very interesting that this is regulated here, since these restrictions should rather be laid down in the 1988 Road Transport Act I. It is a surprising legislative method for the legislator to adopt transport legislation in the media law. The rules of transport are laid down by the body to do so by reason of such violent, pointless, accidental and public risky interference, even in the case of a reasonable interest, such as the establishment of a democratic public opinion that they like to refer to. So here's a legislative criticism. 15th, 16th. It seems to be a great ponzung, that from now on a strategic plan for the development of public media, involving civilians through the public service body. I think it would be professionally justified for the Board of Trustees of the Public Service Foundation to be entitled to comment on this draft. Then there's 31 more. §. I think that removing the requirement to publish public-interest communications on the M1 tax is a pointless proposal, which entails the withdrawal of the original function of the public-interest communication, as this means that these messages with social responsibilities reach far fewer people. Therefore, I would expect an explanation in this regard as to why the authors would delete this. I will also have a proposal for an amendment that would replace, for example, the current political leadership by a professional, in which the role of civilians would be particularly appreciated. Of course, I know you're trying to cement your power across governments, but we're going to outline what will happen once you're on the Jobbik government. I think it's fair, even if you're obviously going to wipe that out. What we are not talking about in this salad bill yet, and I could not say, for example, the conversion of fines into revenue-dependent. I have already explained in detail the criticisms in this regard, for example, in the annual report of the Media Council, so I would not go into that right now. On the other hand, the question of advertising volume is, because it is supposed to be regulated, but - I think - it is not sufficiently, or the Media Council is not doing its job. Since only the delegates of the Fidesz were included in the Media Council, I am obliged to propose a legislative amendment in order to tighten this up, because while they spend an enormous amount of time in order to monitor this irritating phenomenon, perhaps even to pursue it, we do not see it as a result. We can hear with our own ears that the commercials are much louder than the surrounding shows. For example, according to a previous statement from the Media Council spokesperson's office, the Media Council did not impose a fine on national channels for the first time, so the RTL Klubra imposed a fine of HUF 80,000. Don't make me laugh. Either the amounts should be raised, or even notice that this is a completely general tendency to be louder, while your software somehow cannot show this, which the human ear can still sense. In the beginning, the authorities and, in general, all public administrations should strive to ensure at least the cost of detection and administration of the violation of the law by the penalties laid down. We can't see this here, we can't see it at all. And unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to the question asked by the President of the Media Council about how much it costs, even though I can see that he has a separate subpage on his website regarding the measurement of advertising tone, and studies have already been carried out, who knows how much, or at least in PDF format, the study has been published on their website in this regard. So we should also take action on the advertising volume, if not on the Media Council, then here in Parliament for us. Although it might be easier to tell the Fidesz friends in the Media Council that there is a need for a more meaningful sanction in terms of volume in advertising. And what we also miss about the law, which was before, is to bring the obligation to inform back to Smtv, that is, the law on freedom of the press and fundamental rules on media content, because this obligation to inform is regularly missed, especially since it has been removed from the law. State agencies are required to inform the press. And since then, this has really bitten off because of the arrogant communication of Fidesz, so it should finally be included in the law as an obligation and in order to facilitate the task of media workers. The outsourcing of public goods to gain political and media market influence should also be prohibited. Therefore, anyone who has received a government mandate over a billion HUF should not be entitled to support a programme, should not have media service rights, nor should they be transferred. Furthermore, in view of the fragmentation of the media market - this has also been requested earlier and is still not included in the proposal - reduce the conditions for becoming a so-called "jbe," i.e. the media with significant influence. Therefore, the current market share of 15 per cent should be reduced to 5 per cent in order for these stricter requirements to apply to much more, otherwise really serious media. There would be a lot of proposals that we have put forward, either previously, and that has not happened to this day, or it will only become more justified, and so far it may not be justified by legislation, but the media law, made up of rubber paraphrases, does not seem to give sufficient space to do so. However, we would be pleased if the ten amendments we have tabled were adopted in this respect. We need to see that you are trying to change the media law and related legislation in this salad law in a completely different direction, shaped in your own image and in accordance with your own interests of power - rather this is the main problem - but if at least these ten amendments were to be adopted, then I think they would show that they are serious about the national cooperation that you have mentioned a lot but that does not really work at all. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-03-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reflect on some of the statements or facts made in the national speech or during the debate, or at least a few things. Listening to my colleague Mónika Dunai's speech as rapporteur, I thought that if I had gone abroad a few years ago, or, I don't know, had they hibernated, and now I would have come back to Hungary, or I would have gotten up from hibernation now, I would have thought that everything was fine in Hungary in terms of the press and the media, because what you said and painted would show that this is a democratic rule of law and that one of its important elements, freedom of the press, is fully respected here in Hungary. The only problem is that she has often mentioned the freedom of the press in her national speech, and this is a utopia, because there is currently no freedom of the press in Hungary, and this is precisely what you have done with the two-thirds mandate. All we need to think about is what has already been said in the debate about the powers and authority of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Practically every medium, every channel, can be regulated, regulated, as they can impose fines. And, of course, fines are imposed when it becomes unpleasant for Fidesz. And it has also been said that this authority has been fully uploaded to people loyal to Fidesz, just as they are doing to the Constitutional Court, but this would be a completely different subject, of course. So, in itself, the word freedom of the press could exist in Hungary, but if we consider its role in democracy, it can be said that, unfortunately, freedom of the press in Hungary does not exist today. Once again, you have proposed the same solution - and I would like to return to my fellow Member Sallai's question - which has so far been widely taught in the Department of Law Theory, which is practically taught in the Faculty of Law and Law, not by general law, but by specific legislation, because once again by a particular problem, a particular intention that has appeared as an intention within two thirds, is now presenting a bill to the House, which is part of a specific legislative process. Madam President, at the level of the list in your presentation, you mentioned the requirements for the press and the public service. In a strange way, he either forgot or deliberately did not list one of the basic principles of balanced information, which would be expected at least for the public service medium, but, as the Hungarian reality shows, this does not exist today either. [[19.50]] For me, a lot of - how should I put it - human conversation has already made the claim that public service media in Hungary today are virtually, if I may say from our point of view, worse than, say, News TV. Because in the case of News TV or media close to the government, Fidesz, there is nothing surprising when Fidesz's proposals, ideas, and politicians of Fidesz are promoted, because we know very well the operational background of News TV or similar media and channels, and what is more natural is that it is, of course, trying to promote the party family on its side. But in the case of public media, that is absolutely not true. The proportion of public media distorting appearances and, we know very well, trying to convey the appearances of opposition representatives in an inappropriate way to the public and to the viewers, was also highlighted, let us say, in the list of my better fellow Member. Mr. Róbert Benedek Sallai asked the Secretary of State, and I think, on behalf of the rapporteur, also Mrs Mónika Dunai, that she does not understand why this bill came in as an individual motion and why it was not submitted by the government. That's why in the past four and a half years we've had laws coming in like this. If the government is to submit a bill, then it must indeed be held in a social debate, but in the case of individual Members' motion, this obligation does not apply to you. There is nothing surprising, therefore, my fellow Member Sallai, that we are seeing the same fidesz technique that we have seen many times before. State Secretary Major, on behalf of the Government, said that he would present the Government's position. I would like to introduce you, Mr Member, or Secretary of State, if I may say so, and not to be too pompous at all, far be it from me, but then I would like to present the position of the profession. You said the point of this bill is that you're trying to sort out your social background. I don't think that's the point, nor in the professional sense, because the point of this bill is to push out criticism. You perfectly listed that there are about a hundred Hungarian-language channels in Hungary today, which can be seen. You intend to create two more in addition to the current four public service channels. That's absolutely true, but there's a fundamental problem with it. In the countryside in Hungary, which I believe you have made impossible by government measures, people can catch eight channels for free. You know very well that every forint in the countryside in Hungary is counted, and, by definition, what is free, there is much more demand than there is to be paid for. With this bill, you will now achieve that the four public services will be expanded to six, and these six public services will have to be put in the eight free channels, in Hungarian: they will push out such ones as, let's say, the RTL Club, which has been, let's be honest, quite often criticising either the government or the governor's two-thirds taxing Fides. That is why I think the real point of this bill is that Fidesz is again trying to squeeze out the - let's say - thing called criticism. You know, my fellow Members, it is possible to play when you are trying administratively to make impossible the balanced information that, as I said, the Member has unfortunately forgotten to list, but the Hungarian population should not be so disdained that only your propaganda will be accepted. I think a lot of people, let's just say, have opened their eyes, see what's going on in this country. Of course, I know that in your contribution it will be said that yes, you know, the Hungarian population, because this year you have been elected in three elections by up to two thirds, no matter what majority. But overall, I can tell you that recently a wave of protests marched or marched through the country, organised by its organizers for the idea of Internet tax. We know - do we know? At least we understand from the press that the idea of an Internet tax was your commanding general's personal decision. And then, when he sensed social tension, he backed out of it, I mean, by saying it wasn't introduced in its form. Unfortunately, it is not a question for me that your commanding general will try to re-introduce this in the spring or sometime in the summer, because it will try to censor the Internet in a way or the news streams available on it. Because there is the criticism that can be displayed to you at any time, and for this reason I say that I do not unfortunately doubt that you will probably want to introduce the Internet tax in another form at some point in order to regulate the Internet. In fact, once again, by introducing public service taxes into free-to-air television channels, they cannot stop the process they call for you to have a high level of popularity loss. If we refer back to the published polls, I think the 10-11-12 percent loss of popularity will be even more. You know, the big difference between an optimist and a pessimist is that the pessimist says it can't get any worse. So if you're a pessimist, you're saying that this is as bad as you can be, you've lost 11 to 12 percent. Calm down, the optimist says it's gonna get worse. Thank you.
u2014-12-03-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group, has applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-229	Thank you very much. I just wanted to say that I've made three mistakes today. Mr Kucsák drew attention to this, and I just wanted to say that I apologise to everyone here, not disrespect, but fatigue, and I did not want to offend this House. All this tiredness, for which I apologized, also points out how wise and tactical it is that we are here with some of us who have been in the House for 12 to 13 hours, and we will still be here for a few hours; we will discuss such matters in such a narrow circle at night. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the authors whether they wish to respond to what has been said in the debate. Yes, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2014-12-03-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm standing here with half an emotion. On the one hand, I would like to thank you for the comments, proposals and already indicated amendments that you have just indicated, either at the flash level or in more detail. These are what I look forward to and discuss with my fellow recruiter, Bence Tuzson; I look forward to and seriously look forward to. On the other hand, I am somewhat disappointed, because in a good part of the debate, we were not talking about the bill that we tabled. [[Forebod Novak: We too are disappointed!]] I'm talking about other things. These were things that I had seen before, even for several years, reading the minutes, in the reports of the media authority, in the debate on the budget. So, compared to that, there's not much new. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's bad enough!]] I don't want to discuss these points right now. However, there are some points that I cannot leave behind. I think you're waiting for an answer to that. Maybe some of these are probably something you don't understand exactly. [[The First of Novak: That's all there is to it!]] [[The First of Novak: That's all there is to it!]] and requires further explanation. (Előd Novak: That's all it can be!) I would definitely like to address these then. But before I do so, I would like to respond, as my fellow Member, Mr László Kucsák, has already declared to the question of Róbert Sallai Benedek, what our grandparents have taught us. I think, since we have this ball in the air, what our grandparents taught us, I would also like to declare that they are my grandparents, but my parents and my whole kinship taught me honor and honor. And I consider the mandate of representatives to be a service. Here is the next point, which was not asked by one of my fellow Members, why I, or why my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson Bence, have submitted this proposal by two of us. [[20.00]] I think that all Members are entitled to use proposals, legislative proposals, amendments. Anyone can do that. The President of Novak could also do that it is not now - of course it will come in handy - that, if I understand correctly what he is saying in the debate, he will present ten further amendments - but this option is open to all our fellow Members, so that if you think that you want to apply the media law - a short name - you can use it at any time. And I'd like to talk to you about the content issues. Are you on press leave or not? Is the Public Service Foundation now or was it? Yeah, there's already a Public Service Foundation. This public foundation is the owner of the four remaining Zrts until this moment, and will continue to be the owner of it. This is a guarantee that the system of programming and the current Zrt. is not transferred directly to Parliament, and in the future it is one Zrt. No, I don't. Regarding tolls: they did not understand what regulations we were about to introduce. I would just like to mention an example. Imagine, when public media employees want to go to the countryside in the summer, there is a truck stop, and the big van should not be on the highway, but on all sorts of lower roads. [[Zoltán Lukács: Leave on Friday!]] This is something that we would like to solve in our proposal, with exceptions from the truck stop for public media brokers. I think that this is a legitimate expectation that if there is an event on Sunday that they would like to broadcast, not in Budapest, but anywhere in the country. The question of Sunday's work was also raised by Róbert Sallai Benedek, whether MTI should work on Sunday, whether they should work for public media staff on Sunday. I think that this was a rhetorical question, because the news must also be delivered on Sunday, and television must also broadcast programmes on Sunday. The bill that this House is going to discuss today, so that no one can be worked on Sunday, is, according to this bill, trade, also applies to certain groups. [[Zoltán Lukács and Dr Zsolt Legény keep talking.]] We can't expect or want anyone - I suppose you don't - to stop working on Sunday, no news service, no watching games on television, no watching news in public media.
u2014-12-03-232	[[Turning to Zoltán Lukács:]] Congressman, I ask you - the congresswoman listened to you when you spoke and did not say a word - please be so kind... [[Zoltán Lukács: I didn't say anything either.]] A separate trial, I think, shouldn't proceed at this distance. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-03-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question of wealth is that there would be any sundae here hidden in these paragraphs, I assure everyone that there is no such thing. [[Novak Fore: I'm calm.]] The assets that the public media uses at the moment are the property of the public, i.e. the property of the State. There will be no change in that. All in all, the public media is given the opportunity that if they have assets that they do not need, they will not sell it to anyone, but return it, so they will be given the opportunity to return it to the Hungarian National Asset Manager, the State. That's all we're talking about. That's all we're suggesting. Then the next point is that we want the shows to be organized in as many numbers as possible. Here, too, I can reassure all my concerned fellow Members that the opposite is happening. There is a point in which it is precisely envisaged that, instead of the current 25 per cent option or obligation, 15 per cent be the proportion that the public media has prepared with or from an independent programmer, which applies to the production of European works not more than five years ago. So we're setting a small scale here. Of course, you must fill the rest with self-made works. Do we want to squeeze the commercial channels out of the basic packages or expand them? Of course, we don't want to crowd anyone out. The law does not provide for, we do not propose how many channels and channels broadcasters, broadcasters and distributors should put into their basic packages. In total, we propose to give two more opportunities outside the four public media channels. Then it will be the broadcasters themselves who decide that even they will raise their total quota by two or what they will do in this situation. I hope that they will do that they will not raise a fee and will increase the number of channels in their package by two. So we don't want to crowd anyone out, we want to expand the domestic media supply. The next issue is that in the first places there will be four public media and then the two options, and that this would in some way limit people's freedom. I don't understand how you can limit that. If the current four channels, M1, M2, Duna TV and Duna World are in place in 1, 2, 3, 4th place, and then two more, if there will be another public media channel, how will it limit viewers? The remote control, my fellow Members, is in the hands of the people. You can reprogram that television. If someone is used to looking not at the Hungarian 1 on 1 but at another one, then they can change it quite quickly without further ado, I think a ten-year-old student can do it. So I think that there's no harm in hurting the audience here. There was also a question of how the two new channels will be now. Sports television has already been mentioned on the public media side that they want to launch another channel in the summer, obviously one of the two options will be seized and what will then happen to the other and why is needed. Indeed, according to the plans, Petőfi television - under a working name - is not on a new channel, but is actually scheduled to go on the Hungarian 2 in the evening band. That really doesn't exhaust the sixth channel. But since it is the European Union's desire here - and we are trying to do everything we can to meet it - to provide the legal possibility for public media to develop and launch new channels, I think it is worth maintaining another opportunity in the future - for a channel to be launched in two years, maybe five years from now, at any time. Returning to the question of freedom of the press. I think that if we took my fellow Member Luke's thoughts seriously... - he spoke in his speech as a keynote speaker mainly about how many forints the public media has spent on certain programmes in recent years. [[20.10]] I think that if Parliament talks about whether this programme should be broadcast or not on television, then there is no freedom of the press, there is no freedom of the press. The media is independent. It is our task to determine, on the one hand, in the budget, the amount of the public media that we provide for the performance of its public service tasks; what content, what programmes they upload to it; we, Members of Parliament and Parliament have no say in that, and it is well that they have no say in it. There was still a suggestion. I'm sorry, I was trying really hard to take notes so that you could answer everything. There was a question of how this should be interpreted when we amended the definition of public-interest communications to see if we will use public-interest communications for political purposes here in the future. Not at all. Here, at this point, all that is happening is that it will be included in this circle, from whom public media and I stress that only public service media will be obliged to publish public announcements, to supplement it with the fact that it is a public-interest communication or a public-interest communication from an institution managed by the State. What are we thinking here? Let us now translate this into an ordinary language: for example, if the Opera or the Liszt Academy would like to make a public-interest statement that we think is important from a cultural and educational point of view, they should publish this as a public announcement and therefore not have to pay, for example, the Opera House or the Liszt Academy. I'm gonna see if they've had any answers yet. I think I've been trying to answer every question. If you have stayed, I suggest that we go to these points in the Committee on Culture, in the designated committee, where we will hold a detailed debate. I look forward to the amendments, then, and we will study them with respect. Thank you very much for your attention, constructive proposals and kindly for media freedom in the spirit of media freedom. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-234	I would like to thank the Member for her reply as rapporteur. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development will follow. István Jakab, Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/2088. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Committee on Agriculture as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill, which István Jakab wrote with my fellow Member, on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, is primarily justified by the experience accumulated during the year and a half of the chamber's operation. Accordingly, with the bill, we intend to amend most of the provisions of the Agricultural Chamber Act. I have to say in advance that the draft does not turn away from the spirit of the current Chamber of Agriculture Act, as the chamber's one-and-a-half-year operation has proved that the regulatory concept is good, and it is justified for the future to maintain a public body with broad powers integrating the actors of the agricultural economy. The Chamber, which was designed to provide a wide range of services to its members, justified its existence in a short period of time. In addition to the services to be provided to members, it is not negligible that the Chamber, in carrying out its public tasks, removes a number of burdens from the shoulders of public authorities and is highly prepared and well-known to the daily problems of its members, effectively resolves the administrative and advisory tasks previously carried out by public bodies. In addition to what has been said, however, I must say that, for the future, the Chamber still has a number of potentials that can be used to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the domestic agricultural economy. The main reason for the changes to the operation of the Chamber system is that the experience of the membership of the first full year has shown that the composition, structure and legal status of the Chamber membership in the field of the agricultural economy is diverse. In order to enable the Chamber to perform its integrating role with maximum efficiency, it is appropriate that all actors appearing in the domestic agriculture become members. In addition, the law-based public service mission of the Chamber is to monitor the enforcement of legal provisions prohibiting ethical rules, unfair commercial practices and distortions of competition. The exercise of the former powers can only be sufficiently effective if everyone who can play a role in the distribution chain becomes a member of the public body. In order to enable the Chamber to properly carry out the registration tasks related to its membership, it is necessary to clarify the rules on the reporting arrangements. NAK can provide appropriate statistics, economic structure information, as required, either to legislators or economic decision-makers, on the basis of this database. The majority of the further amendments to the Law on the Chamber of Agricultural Economy are technical amendments that leave the substance of the current legislative provisions unchanged, while creating a clearer regulatory environment for law enforcement, while at the same time facilitating day-to-day practice, the amendments to the bill concerning the public body's official organisation are aimed at facilitating day-to-day practice. In conclusion and summing up what we have just said, the justification for the proposal for the general debate is given by the experience accumulated during the year and a half of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, which was established last spring. I would like to thank both the Chamber and the wallet for their involvement in the preparation of the bill and the possibility of constructive consultation since its submission, since the entry into force of this legislation on 1 January 2015 is necessary for the operation of the Chamber. This necessity and the need for a legislative process have justified the submission of a consensus proposal at not all points, but because it is possible to amend the bill at the parliamentary stage, so the conciliation continued, and based on the experience of the last few days, I trust that, after the amendments, the government and Parliament will support the bill. Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you to support with your contributions and your vote the potential and synergies of the integration of the members of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy to the surface at an even higher level, making our country's agricultural economy competitive. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-03-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, who wishes to present the government's position. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-03-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy MPs T/2088. A bill was submitted to the Parliament to amend certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. The draft bill was submitted in advance to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Agriculture by the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development, but, as the Member indicated, the comments we gave were not translated through the submitted text. The adoption of the bill in this form cannot be supported by the government. [[20.20]] The bill is primarily the 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. It concerns the amendment of the Act, but also makes proposals for amendments to additional laws. According to the justification of the bill, the primary reason for the changes to the functioning of the agricultural chamber system is that the experience of the first full-year membership period has shown that the composition, structure and legal status of the Chamber membership in the agricultural economy of around 370 000 have been varied. In order to enable the Chamber to properly carry out the registration tasks relating to chamber membership, it is necessary to clarify the rules on the reporting arrangements. On the basis of this database, the Chamber of Agriculture can provide appropriate economic structure information to legislators and decision-makers as necessary. The new provision on the agricultural aid procedure includes procedural facilitations which do not jeopardise the harm of the Member States and the Community's financial interests. The amendment to the vocational education and training system provides the basis for a better level of activity in this area by the Chambers of Economic Affairs, such as the Chamber of Agriculture, taking into account the interests of entrepreneurship. Under the law, the National Chamber of Agriculture performs the tasks of local land committees on a temporary basis. The proposed addition of land traffic rules serves data protection purposes. In the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development, the treatment of farmers as farmers in the scope of membership by virtue of the law raises a problem if compliance with the status of farmers is a CXXII of 2013 on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. Act 5. Paragraph 7 (b) shall apply. In this case, the person is recognised as a farmer on the basis of his activity in a farming cooperative owned by at least 25 percent, the agricultural activity is carried out by the agricultural cooperative, the farmer produces through it, and in practice leases his land to his own company. CXXVI of 2012 on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. However, a planned amendment to the Act would result in a double membership, since, by virtue of the law, both the farmer's and the farmer's cooperative, owned by at least 25 percent, would be obliged to be a member, even though agricultural activity is carried out only by the farmer's cooperative. This must be avoided, as this would in effect force the landowners to become NAK. In addition, there is a problem when a person has a 504/2013 on agricultural and forestry vocational training. By having one of the skills listed in the government decree, he requests that he be entered in the register of farmers, but does not yet wish to obtain land ownership or use rights. In this case, the person concerned does not pursue an agricultural activity but becomes a chamber member. For the client, the bill is 9. The obligation to pay pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service does not apply in proceedings, as in this case the Public Finance Act and the Duty Act shall apply. The 12th draft of the NAK law according to the bill. § 3a of the Act precludes the 2011 CXCIV on economic stability in Hungary. Law 29. With regard to the provisions of Article 4 of the Act on the obligation to pay, the scope of payment obligations, the scope and extent of discounts, exemptions may only be determined by a municipal decree by law or by law, unless the European Union's statutory act or international contract provides otherwise. In addition, the Minister may, on the basis of the authorisation of a Government Decree issued by law or by the original legislative authority, fix an administrative service fee or an additional charge in a regulation issued with the agreement of the Minister for Taxation. It cannot be interpreted in grammatical terms that the Agrarian Chamber performs its public tasks under law or under a separate agreement on the basis of a public service contract with the body designated by the Government. On the other hand, if legislation establishes a public task for the Chamber, it will act by virtue of the law rather than by virtue of the agreement. However, the provision should not be about legislation, but about law, because this is in line with the general rule on public bodies that binding tasks for the public body can only be laid down by law: XXXVIII of 1992 on public finances. Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Law 8/A Paragraph 3 of this Article. This does not apply to administrative matters, which may also be laid down by law or government decree to the Chamber on the general rules for administrative procedures and services of 2004 CXL. Law 12 § 3 (e). The bill is set at 10 and 13. The provision under §2 of the Act is not a legislative matter; it can only be regulated at the level of a government decree, as a matter of power. NAK Law 15/A. It is necessary to repeal it instead of amend §2 of the Act, taking into account its impact on the Fundamental Law. The bill is 20. Article 41 of the NAK Act. The tax and tax exemptions provided for in the provision concerning paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article shall be provided for in the relevant laws, otherwise the coherence of the legal system shall be violated. The exemption from the Law on Charges cannot be interpreted as exempting revenue, not as the basis for payment of the levy. The wording on the environmental product fee is not good, since it is not possible that the product subject to the product charge will eventually be purchased by NAK, and in particular whether it will be used for the purposes of its core activity. The payment of the environmental product fee shall be subject to the first domestic placing on the market. It is also unclear what consideration should be given to exempting NAK from this public burden when public administrations and ministries do not benefit from it. The bill is 19 and 22 respectively. Article 37 of the NAK Act. § 1 and 43 respectively. Paragraph 1 does not deviate from the existing text of the NAK Act. The NAK Act is 44. With regard to paragraph 6 of Section 6, the provision should be supplemented by the guarantee rules laid down in the case of the revision of general decisions, so that, on the one hand, it should be regulated how many days the internal review forum should take a decision, and it should also be stated that a lawsuit may be brought not only from the notification of the decision, but also from the date of the failure of the deadline for the decision. Furthermore, it should not be a matter of establishing a false payment obligation, but of the same general rules, of the fact that the decision establishing the payment obligation infringes the provisions of the NAK Act, other legislation, the statutes or other municipal regulations. According to the provision, in this case NAK Law 44. Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall not apply. However, it is assumed that the second sentence of paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 should also apply mutatis mutandis. The bill is 24. Article 57 of the Transitional Provisions of the NAK Act to be published Paragraph 2 does not make sense since it does not relate to any of the provisions of the NAK Law and it is not clear on the basis of the justification why it is necessary, what is its normative content. The bill is 25. Article 58 of the NAK Act to be introduced § 2 of the Act contains a single transitional provision. At the same time, the NAK Act 11. § (1) amendment of paragraph 1 of this Article, the establishment of discounts from the payment of membership fees, and the establishment of a transitional provision are not necessary. On the other hand, the extension of the legislative scope of chamber members requires appropriate transitional provisions for persons belonging to the new categories at the time of their entry into force. The bill is 27. Section XVII of 2007 on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures Law 41. It is important to stress that, in the light of the objective pursued, more precise and useful solutions should be outlined, where appropriate, which do not break down the established system of procedure, which has long been unchanged, supported by judicial practice. It cannot be interpreted by way of derogation from the provisions of this Act, since this provision is part of the same law and, within the same legislation, it creates several logically linked but conflicting provisions in the same subject matter, and therefore the amendment cannot be implemented from the point of view of law enforcement. [[20.30]] It does not have any obligation to pay pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article in proceedings falling within the scope of the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service, in which case the Public Finance Act and the Duty Act shall apply. The 12th draft of the NAK law according to the bill. § 3a of the Act precludes the 2011 CXCIV on economic stability in Hungary. Law 29. With regard to the provisions of Article 4 of the Act on the obligation to pay, the scope of payment obligations, the scope and extent of discounts, exemptions may only be determined by a municipal decree by law or by law, unless the European Union's statutory act or international contract provides otherwise. In addition, the Minister may, on the basis of the authorisation of a Government Decree issued by law or by the original legislative authority, fix an administrative service fee or an additional charge in a regulation issued with the agreement of the Minister for Taxation. It cannot be interpreted in grammatical terms that the Agrarian Chamber performs its public tasks under law or under a separate agreement on the basis of a public service contract with the body designated by the Government. On the other hand, if legislation establishes a public task for the Chamber, it will act by virtue of the law rather than by virtue of the agreement. However, the provision should not be about legislation, but about law, because this is in line with the general rule on public bodies that binding tasks for the public body can only be laid down by law: XXXVIII of 1992 on public finances. Act LXV of 2006 amending certain related laws Law 8/A Paragraph 3 of this Article. This does not apply to administrative matters, which may also be laid down by law or government decree to the Chamber on the general rules for administrative procedures and services of 2004 CXL. Law 12 § 3 (e). The bill is set at 10 and 13. The provision under §2 of the Act is not a legislative matter; it can only be regulated at the level of a government decree, as a matter of power. NAK Law 15/A. It is necessary to repeal it instead of amend §2 of the Act, taking into account its impact on the Fundamental Law. The bill is 20. Article 41 of the NAK Act. The tax and tax exemptions provided for in the provision concerning paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article shall be provided for in the relevant laws, otherwise the coherence of the legal system shall be violated. The exemption from the Law on Charges cannot be interpreted as exempting revenue, not as the basis for payment of the levy. The wording on the environmental product fee is not good, since it is not possible that the product subject to the product charge will eventually be purchased by NAK, and in particular whether it will be used for the purposes of its core activity. The payment of the environmental product fee shall be subject to the first domestic placing on the market. It is also unclear what consideration should be given to exempting NAK from this public burden when public administrations and ministries do not benefit from it. The bill is 19 and 22 respectively. Article 37 of the NAK Act. § 1 and 43 respectively. Paragraph 1 does not deviate from the existing text of the NAK Act. The NAK Act is 44. With regard to paragraph 6 of Section 6, the provision should be supplemented by the guarantee rules laid down in the case of the revision of general decisions, so that, on the one hand, it should be regulated how many days the internal review forum should take a decision, and it should also be stated that a lawsuit may be brought not only from the notification of the decision, but also from the date of the failure of the deadline for the decision. Furthermore, it should not be a matter of establishing a false payment obligation, but of the same general rules, of the fact that the decision establishing the payment obligation infringes the provisions of the NAK Act, other legislation, the statutes or other municipal regulations. According to the provision, in this case NAK Law 44. Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall not apply. However, it is assumed that the second sentence of paragraph 4 and paragraph 5 should also apply mutatis mutandis. The bill is 24. Article 57 of the Transitional Provisions of the NAK Act to be published Paragraph 2 does not make sense since it does not relate to any of the provisions of the NAK Law and it is not clear on the basis of the justification why it is necessary, what is its normative content. The bill is 25. Article 58 of the NAK Act to be introduced § 2 of the Act contains a single transitional provision. At the same time, the NAK Act 11. § (1) amendment of paragraph 1 of this Article, the establishment of discounts from the payment of membership fees, and the establishment of a transitional provision are not necessary. On the other hand, the extension of the legislative scope of chamber members requires appropriate transitional provisions for persons belonging to the new categories at the time of their entry into force. The bill is 27. Section XVII of 2007 on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures Law 41. It is important to stress that, in the light of the objective pursued, more precise and useful solutions should be outlined, where appropriate, which do not break down the established system of procedure, which has long been unchanged, supported by judicial practice. It cannot be interpreted by way of derogation from the provisions of this Act, since this provision is part of the same law and, within the same legislation, it creates several logically linked but conflicting provisions in the same subject matter, and therefore the amendment cannot be implemented from the point of view of law enforcement.(20.30) Under the current legislation, it is possible to fill the gap, and only legislation on a given measure can exclude it from all scope, whether in relation to the replacement of certain documents or data, so the granting or exclusion of a deficiency is still a legislative power. The exclusion may be justified by the limited resources available, the time limit for payment set out in Union legislation. However, the planned General Allowing Regulation does not fit the current regulatory structure. If the client fails to comply with the deadlines for the execution of operations, the application for payment, the achievement of a specified rate of performance by means of EAFRD Regulations, the MVH may request a document in a possible deficiency, for several documents, such as the opening of a building permit or a permit for use in Iran, the client cannot modify the date of the initiation of proceedings, i.e. the deadline which has not already been observed can not be confirmed as retained afterwards. A non-scheduled procedure and the document on this will not be acceptable, despite the need to fill in the gap. The absence of a signature results in a refusal without a substantive examination, as the application without a signature is invalid. The signature on paper is used to identify the client in the same way as the customer gate by electronic means. The reference to EU legislation as an exception to the exemption provision is unclear, since the deadline for submission laid down in EU legislation does not necessarily have anything to do with whether there is a possibility of filling the gaps, this issue, as in domestic legislation, is covered in many ways by EU rules. The bill is 29. CLV 2011 on the vocational training contribution to be amended and support for the development of training. It cannot be understood in the wording of law that at least 15 per cent of the expenditure of the basic part may be used, since it can be linked to at least the word obligation, while the useable rule does not give a meaningful normative provision together. With regard to the provision, it is also necessary to clarify whose task it is to allocate the sum between the two chambers. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can see that we have something to agree between the government and the chamber. I report that this negotiation is under way, and I very much hope that by the time the law is in its final phase of adoption, all the curved roads will be straightened out and the agreement with which the government will be able to support this bill will be reached. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-238	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Béla Dankó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-03-239	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The subject series procedure for the proposals of István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy in front of us took place exactly a week ago, on 26 November in the Committee on Agriculture. Then Congressman Győrffy explained in detail the content of the bill and the reasons for its submission, so that we could all be convinced of the need for amendments. The series of articles was taken by 5 yeses and 2 non-voting votes. What I think is very clear about this proposal is that these amendments were made by life, which are necessary to smooth out the minor malfunctions that have arisen in the operation of the Chamber so far, and make it easier not only for the Chamber to operate, but in some cases also for the members of the Chamber. In addition, it will be possible to suspend the membership of the Chamber, so entrepreneurs who, for any reason, interrupt their agricultural activities for a longer or shorter period, do not have to terminate their membership of the Chamber, nor do they have a new membership once their activities are resumed, simply have to activate the old legal relationship. Another small but important amendment is that ancient producers can still enjoy their membership rights for four months after the end of the original producer's certificate. This is an important amendment because while pre-production certificates expire on 31 December, the claim is pending until March. The amendment excludes the possibility that, during the period between the expiry of the pre-production certificate and the application for a new card, a chamber elected official may not exercise, for example, the right to vote. Further changes could still be mentioned: the continuation of the first generation and individual entrepreneurial activity will not mean multiple membership, or that there will not be a double fee in the case of members of the mountain community. At last week's meeting, the members of the Committee belonging to the ruling party supported the implementation of these necessary and important amendments to the legislative system. The rapporteur pointed out that in some cases the amendments should enter into force on 1 January 2015. At the meeting, however, it was also clear that the draft legislation still needs to be refined in some respects. In any event, the authors had already indicated that they were ready to fine-tune the proposal along the lines of the parliamentary framework. In light of this fact, we supported the inclusion of the motion in the series. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-12-03-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Not surprised, but I was pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that the government does not support this bill in its present form. We welcome this, because - I will not reveal a great secret to him - the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this bill, but, of course, I would also like to say here in my keynote speech why not. In the beginning, let us say that the Secretary of State has listed a number of issues that we think would be a problem with, but these include detailed technical justifications. Although there are some points in this bill that we would agree with, but we reject the whole scheme overall, because we have already disagreed with the 2012 Act to abolish the independence of the agricultural chamber system. In addition to the mandatory registration, compulsory membership and payment of the five thousand HUF registration fee, the amendments at that time abolished the independent advocacy system. The lead speaker at the Fidesz mentioned that last week we had discussed the bill in the Committee on Agriculture, and I then got into an argument with my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy about the fact that the National Chamber of Agriculture is an advocacy organisation, or, as he said, a public body. I believe that there is still a significant debate between us today. In any case, over the past period, we have consistently and decisively acted against the violent government occupation of the agricultural chamber system. In this way, we will continue to support the unpoliticised system of interest representation, which we consider feasible on the basis of representativeness. The transformation and modification of the fully refurbished and politicised agricultural chambers and other agricultural chamber systems is only acceptable to us, such as the Burgenland example, which does not represent party interests, but provides economic, financial and legal support and professional support for the members of the Chamber. There is a need for a new type of operation in which registration of operators is mandatory, but no compulsory membership is required. Ladies and gentlemen, Currently, the National Chamber of Agriculture, which received HUF 1.7 billion in budget support in 2015, is not independent of the governing party, is not independent of Fidesz and the government, and this is supported by the following facts. The President of the Chamber of Agriculture is Balázs Győrffy, my fellow Member, Member of the Parliament of Fidesz, one of the authors of the bill, who is a member of the Magos Presidency. National Vice-President of the National Agricultural Chamber responsible for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises Miklós Zsolt Kis, Minister of State for Agricultural and Rural Development of the Prime Minister's Office, President of the young farmer Magos. With the exception of seven county presidents, all county agricultural chamber presidents are members of the national presidency delegated on the territorial logic of Magos. The political commitment or political attachment of Magos cannot be proved better than the following facts: the President of Magos is István Jakab, vice-president of Parliament, and the other author of the bill, the parliamentary representative of Fidesz. The Secretary General of Magos is Ferenc Obreczán, former Fidesz MP. [[20.40]] The Federal Director of Magos is Gyula Budai, Parliamentary Representative of Fidesz, who is currently - and I am trying to recall this precisely - Minister for Foreign Economics and Foreign Affairs, responsible for external economic measures stemming from the embargo ordered by Russia. Dear House, It is also known that the county organisations of the Chamber of Agriculture carry out the tasks of the local land committees which have not yet been established. In the absence of local land committees, which, in spite of the deadline in May, have not yet stood up, county agricultural chambers decide from Rajka to Záhony whether to exercise their veto rights in buying land. Thus, the chamber's county organizations became the service and coordinating body of the farmhouse. Their decision-making system is not only slow and cumbersome, but has been burdened with extraordinary errors and controversial decisions. What proves this more than the fact that in recent times several cases have come to light when - I quote - local farmers have refused to buy land on the basis of accumulation in order to allow people close to Fidesz to acquire new areas. As a result of corrupt government in Orbán, there is no appeal or appeal against their decisions. This is both shocking and outrageous to us, and we reject it. This was the case, for example, in Zircen, where the agricultural chamber led by independent politicians abused trust and served the local Fidesz circle of friends. A family farmer of 100 hectares wanted to buy the area of 1 hectare of land adjacent to and announced with him. He thought it would be enough to exercise his pre-emptive right. Well, it wasn't enough, because he didn't expect a family of Fidesz family, in which both husband and wife checked into the same land in different settlements, but he was a member of the Agriculture Committee. Thus, the county agricultural chamber refused to purchase a simple and non-Fidesz family farmer on the grounds of stockpiling. But it's not an isolated case. The same thing happened to a pensioner on the island. He only wanted to buy half a hectare from a friend for his existing 0.9 hectares. He paid the HUF 20,000 for the necessary administrative costs, and he was the only candidate in the area. His application for May was rejected in October in a completely incomprehensible way. The reason, as I have already mentioned, in this case was that small pensioners would buy for accumulation. We don't understand that there could be a half acre of accumulation. In addition, the Chamber put two people in a bad position: the small pensioner, who also lost 20,000 forints for the costs, and the seller, who stayed at the top and could not sell his territory. Dear House, These two examples clearly show that the corrupt Fidesz state has created the possibility of legal service for friends. They may be legitimate, but they're immoral. As long as the system works, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group does not support the proposal. We can only accept an amendment that guarantees the establishment of a system of non-political interest representation in Hungarian agriculture and food industry. As I have mentioned to you, my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy, we have had an argument about the fact that the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy acts as a body of interest or as a public body. I think that both of these tasks should be fulfilled, and in this case, the interest representation would also mean that it should also be independent of the government, of course, government relations should be used in this respect anyway, should be exploited, but that does not mean that there should be virtually a servant-like service organisation in this respect. We therefore have a problem in principle and a contradiction in principle on this matter, so, as I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Thank you so much for listening to me at this late hour.
u2014-12-03-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to MEP Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I listened calmly to Mr Secretary of State's criticism of the proposal submitted. We were very much in agreement, and we were also struck by the fact that, in this state of affairs, this proposal does not fulfil the role that we believe the applicant must have had originally in mind. However, we cannot support the proposal, even if some of these will be eliminated by possible pro-government amendments. There are a number of points here that the Secretary of State has not highlighted yet, but we have concerns about him. Basically, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is able to support legislation of this nature, mainly containing technical clarifications, because it is not used to submit one, not two salad laws by the end of the year, which points in this direction, and tries to correct these errors, errors that have been detected and accumulated in practice. The experience in recent years has been that we have been able to support some of these. However, the case with the agricultural chambers is that I am opposed to Mr President, because we believe that the Chamber of Agriculture is not at all the role that we would have intended for him. I can say so in plural, because when the old agricultural chamber system was reformed in 2012, Jobbik welcomed and supported it, but I do not think that the old Chamber of Agriculture worked well and did not represent the interests of the majority of Hungarian farmers. It was the playground of a very narrow circle, and it was also typically the larger kft.-s, the larger ownership of larger farms, respect for the exception, because it was that way, by the way. At the same time, the transformation did not result in what we right-wingers would have expected of it, i.e. they did not take samples of Western Europe, they did not include it in the operation of the Chamber, which would have resulted in the Chamber being able to really provide everyday assistance to farmers in the field of administrative matters, in the field of applications, we do not see their everyday existence being helped at all. However, the Chamber elections have clearly shown that you have not been able to raise any greater interest, much more interest from the farmers to the Chamber, which in itself is of concern. If I remember correctly, there was such an electoral spirit on the part of the members at the agricultural chamber elections - this was different by county - which is a brutally low number, which in itself indicates that something has been very wrong and that it has not been possible to achieve the goal that the majority of Hungarian farmers, Hungarian stakeholders and Hungarian chamber members will be able to involve themselves in the decision-making process and will feel the Chamber at all. Unfortunately, this did not happen, and perhaps one of the consequences of this is that at present the Chamber is indeed too strongly linked to the government, and seems to the Fidesz to be a small server in many cases. I have already seen personal ties that clearly show that it is not an independent body, and they have not sought to represent the interests of the chambers across governments, of the stakeholders and producers in all aspects and through all changes. So it has to be stated that the transformation has not achieved the goal that you, by the way, have said, and we would have liked it. Therefore, such a minor patching of this Chamber Act will not be able to lead to a change in the situation, and we will achieve the goal of truly working for the benefit of the chamber members. I don't judge mandatory membership in itself, by the way. That HUF 5 000 registration fee, I think, can be burdensome and cause problems for many people at a certain level, but I see the problem here not in compulsory membership, but in not having received the services that were otherwise rightly expected and which you have said. But I would like to highlight a few specific points. I am trying to avoid what Mr Secretary of State has already said about the proposal, but we have some specific concerns and problems here that I will explain. What I would like to say above all is that this would be the place for a detailed debate, but this is no longer possible, so I am forced to bring it to the general debate. Obviously, it will be possible in the Commission, and I will do so, and also the amendments - I think they can be tabled by 16:00 tomorrow - will arrive in time, but I would like to make some arguments here and here in the House. The bill is 1. The legal concept of a farmer determined in accordance with point (a) of paragraph (a) of this Article appears contradictory and inaccurate from our point of view. This is the next one. (a) farmer: in the absence of the conditions laid down in points (aa) and (b), a farmer resident, resident, established or established in the territory of Hungary, self-employed person engaged in an agricultural activity, or a person registered as a farmer. At the same time, I think that it is not justified that, in the case of an ancient farmer as a farmer, the presentation should not be the main criterion of the agricultural activity. [[20.50]] If the natural person is an economic operator and does not perform any of the activities defined in the Beltv. nor in the TEÁOR list in a taxatically defined manner, his status as an ancestor is conceptually excluded. There is no physical or regulatory basis for the fact that the law only identifies the activity with the self-employed, which, on the one hand, causes confusion with the agricultural and, on the other hand, prima facie concepts. In fact, it is pointless to highlight the fact that it is established or established in the territory of the country. The head office is a category of an operating area reserved for an organizational, legal or non-legal person, which is almost lost by the natural person farmer. The original producer, since he is not an organizational person, may not have his seat either. Finally, the inclusion of a farmer registered as a farmer in the natural person farming category is also of concern, since the farmer is the Act on the Traffic in Lands of Agriculture and Forestry 5. The complex legal concept defined in paragraph 7 of Section 7 of the Act, partly referring to a natural person or a member of a Member State, and, on the other hand, also covers the member of a natural person who is resident in the Union or of a domestic agricultural organisation, if this is the owner of the company's assets, of course. According to this, it is also a farmer who is a member of a farm cooperative with at least 25 percent ownership, registered in Hungary, who carries out agricultural and forestry activities and agricultural and forestry activities as a personal contribution. Therefore, the concept of a farmer of the draft is the owner of a company representing 25 per cent of the separate regulated entity named by the proposal, so that its designation is about to duplicate or at least overlaps the concept of an economic entity. The current law avoids this conceptual confusion and, therefore, we do not feel that the amendment is justified in this case. Otherwise, the proposal is 2. In the case of a farmer, the Member's list makes the indication of the owner's personal identification mandatory. For statistical purposes, the Chamber of Agriculture shall provide the HCSO with access to the list of members referred to in paragraph 2 or, at its request, shall provide data which may be uniquely identified. To the law in force, the list of members is 7. In accordance with Article 5 of the Act, it is apparent from its binding content that the farmer, the entity, requires all relevant relevant data, so that the further extension of that scope in the case of the farmer is justified only by a separate indication of the address of the notification. If the farmer is a natural person or an organisational person and his or her reporting obligation is compared with that of the subjects of the activities of a producer service provider in other sectors, such as industry, trade, service and so on, it is apparent that he or she is scanning every aspect of the farming, income and living of the agricultural and forestry producer in full depth. Even the sentenced person who is serving his sentence does not need to provide data of as extensive and depth as is necessary for these persons, and we therefore consider this to be of concern. Therefore, the amendment, which aims to substantially extend the mandatory scope of data, also needs to reduce the content of data reporting and data collection under current law on the basis of the need for rationality. On the one hand, this will prevent disruptions in the operation of bureaucracy in cases where we believe that these data may fall into the wrong hands, and on the other hand, the constitutional fundamental rights of the rule of law and the protection of personalities require that no citizen is obliged to provide excessive data without sufficient public interest and without reasonable grounds. In the present case, the law provides for an incorrect indication of the owner's personal identification, because the sum of other mandatory data is not, in our view, required. The proposal cited 7. According to §2 of the Act, the Chamber of Agriculture is also obliged to give this to the KSH in a unique manner, which is both completely unnecessary and, on the other hand, can only provide a material basis for breach of privacy and abuse of rights, and I therefore believe that the personal identification requirement of the proposal should be deleted from the norm of the proposal. I do not want to go into political messages now that, in the knowledge of the Cubatov lists, I find this to be of particular concern. The bill provides as a new provision that the real estate authority is required to provide to the agricultural chamber, free of charge, on a monthly basis, through the information system of the real estate authority, the data listed by the farmer or farmer organisation, as agreed with the database operator. These also include the farmer's ID. As far as the latter is concerned, it is justified not to do so, since I have already explained the reason for this in the previous points. On the other hand, it is unnecessary for the real estate authority to have a harmful workload, as this is what causes it, and even for the database manager's agricultural chamber. We believe that every month, it is a serious requirement, and that it accepts these data; instead, it would be appropriate for the Land Administration to be obliged only to report on individual data changes without delay, while the required data should only be provided on a quarterly basis. I'm going to leave some out here, as the Secretary of State has also mentioned them. Perhaps I would also like to point out that the bill entrusts the official tasks of issuing, enforcing and returning the original producer's ID to the agricultural chamber. At the same time, the withdrawal of the card falls within the competence of another body which is obliged to notify the Chamber of Agriculture thereof. It is a fact that the withdrawal of the card is a sanction caused by a violation of the prima facie right, and the examination of this does not fall within the competence of the Chamber of Agriculture. However, the unit of administrative proceedings relating to the certificate justifies that the withdrawal of the certificate should also be the responsibility of the Chamber of Agriculture which issued it on the basis of the request of the body applying the sanction. Here, I could give you a long list of points that are contained in the law in force, and it would have been worth changing, but they did not do so. Unfortunately, there are several of these which are not opened with this amendment, so we cannot submit amendments to it. At the same time, I believe that it would be necessary and that everyone would be pleased to receive these proposals. What I would like to highlight is on the last page. Overall, the contradictions of this proposal could only be changed by a new law based on democratism, which is why I said that there are quite a few stages that we cannot now amend for technical reasons, which would require a completely new agricultural chamber law. On the basis of the above, I can therefore tell you that we cannot support this proposal. Unless, by some miracle, substantial progress is made during this debate, or if there is not one that will be able to rewrite this proposal in scale between the proposals to be tabled by tomorrow's deadline, then it is feared that we will not be able to support this proposal in the end. I wanted to say these briefly, and if anything else comes up during the debate, I will, of course, press a button. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members present, They always accuse the LMP of being too private, and they don't want to cooperate with anyone. There is one situation, however, that we have agreed with the opinion of Mr Zsolt Legény, and we could now agree with the representative of the government, and I could also agree with the overwhelming majority of what Mr Zoltán Magyar has to say. There is only one thing that I would argue with the Hungarian Member: I also basically remove the obligation that compulsory chamber membership would be productive. I would expect such a public body to provide services that are worth entering, to provide a system of quality that makes sense to enter. I fully respect Magos' right to exist, I have always recognised him as a legitimate organization, just because everyone can decide whether they want to be part of a team or not. In the case of the chamber, we don't have it. Obviously, I don't want to come with such demagogues that Fidesz membership could be mandatory in the country on the basis of so many principles, but I am certainly debating whether this attitude is good and productive. [[21.00]] Before I begin to present our party's opinion, let me share with you a very small idea of democracy, as I have been thinking a lot about how to deal with such a proposal. This is because, as we see the structure of a society, it may be welcome and useful to have political direction, a policy made up of people who want to exercise some level of power, want to control the community and society, and want to pursue this in the interests of the common good. It would be good for the majority of society to have jobs created by the economy, and for the economy to be free of policy as far as possible, and for it to operate according to competition rules in such a way as to be useful to all those involved in society. And it would be very, very good if there were a third sector, a civil society that could operate completely independently of them, every natural person could have a private opinion, if they wanted to, they could join groups and be organised as civil society organisations. It's usually the great cancer of society when these social groups start to get mixed up. What we have seen over the last two decades is that corruption itself is when politics and the economy are mixed up, when the top economic actors become politicians, and vice versa. Civil society is being destroyed by civil society when civil society is starting to mix with the parties, and there is hardly any civil society organisation to which we can say that it is really a civil society, because we can suspect a party behind everyone, no matter what their opinion. It would be good if it weren't. It came from this thinking that I myself was a little surprised that the leader of the Chamber of Agriculture and his interests were submitting such a proposal, because it seemed a little incompatible to me, with a municipal council past behind my back, to bring our own regulation before this House. I was the same way when Congressman Erik Bánki introduced the online sports betting law to support his own organisation, MLSZ, from tax revenues. LMP's lawyers assured LMP that Parliament operates differently constitutionally, and the basic assumption is that everyone here is serving the common good, and therefore there is no such conflict of interest here, although it is certainly my moral compass that concerns are raised in this process. I also ask my honourable fellow Members and the President, I have always noticed today, especially today, that the Fidesz is constantly communicating either in a defensive or offensive way, to believe that I am not speaking my opinion with bad intentions, be it the opinion of a man who thinks in a different way, and I do not want to harm or attack, but we have a different opinion on these. The regional political body of the LMP has asked me to express an opinion between Parliament's walls, which has come to us from many, many regions. I would like to say this opinion that we have formulated. The bill before us fits perfectly into the so far activities of the Fidesze-Magos Chamber of Agriculture: it seeks to maximize its own powers, its own influence, its own incomes and its available databases on farmers, while providing support to farmers is far below what is expected. The bill links the Chamber even more to the government, whose role as a public body and self-government is decreasing and is being degraded into an almost administrative body, but it can also expect significant budget and EU funding, with a likely significant increase in staff. The LMP disagrees with the fact that the agricultural chamber becomes a cadaver and a paying place with fidesz. He wants such a body to be able to provide real representation of Hungarian farmers. By amending the laws relating to the operation of the Chamber of Agriculture, the reporting obligations of farmers towards the organisation with a debatable mandate are increasing. In English, the Chamber of Agriculture wants to know more and more about its members. However, while farmers were not able to obtain substantial additional services compared to the period before 2010, significant additional liabilities would now arise. Since the introduction of compulsory chamber membership, some 370 000 chamber members have been obliged to pay a membership fee, and in return they will receive a politically motivated institution that accumulates resources. In many cases, too, many members are deeply offended by the fact that practically a government propaganda paper is issued from their membership fees, while there is no alleged cost for basic sources and mailings to notify all members by post, such as board elections. The Chamber seeks to make a new amendment to the law based on public goals and more detailed information from decision-makers, while one of my requests for information - I have submitted a written question - has been answered that the data generated by the municipal chamber committees do not constitute data of public interest. Meanwhile, Fidesz is trying to plant partly and partly its own people in both the national administration of the Chamber of Agriculture and in the management of the municipal agricultural committees, and, to say the least, is justified by the disapproval and suspicion of farmers that the Chamber wants to know everything about them. What guarantees can the Chamber of Agriculture or the legislator guarantee that this data will not be used for political purposes, that information obtained from these data will not be a means of political retaliation? I was in a long data request process with the Chamber of Agriculture regarding the municipal agri-economic committees, the TABs, after the Chamber had not notified its members of the inaugural meetings contrary to its own statutes. In this context, the LMP received a number of requests, and one by one it was said that in many places in the country there was an anti-regulative meeting of the Chambers of Agriculture committees. The meetings were convened behind the back of the farmers, the invitation and the nomination process were not transparent, and those close to the governing party essentially played the whole process among themselves. In Kiskunfélegyháza, for example, 11 out of 1575 registered members elected five-member presidencies, chaired by a local Fidesz municipal representative; 1575 registered members did not receive the invitation. LMP turned to the prosecutor's office after it became apparent that the establishment of the municipal agricultural chamber committees was expropriated by Fidesz and filled the bodies with its own people. The Chamber Committees have been established in a number of places against the statute, and just as in the case of trade-options, loyalty to the governing party has been more important than the interests of those involved. With regard to the formation of TABs, the Metropolitan Attorney General has also identified the shortcomings, but with the funny conclusion that, once these have been established, there is no subsequent change in the unlawful state. The reasons for the shortcomings or abuses could be the same as those of the closed-listed national chamber elections in 2013: they wanted to put their own reliable people on all levels. In these elections, only the choice between the lists of nominating organisations was made possible, and the possibility for professional organisations to participate independently was widely excluded. The rules of the charade, called the Chamber election, were developed by a transitional presidency composed mostly of the government's nearby Magos leaders, and only one organization, Magos, made a list in every county. As a result, 93 percent of the agricultural operators entitled to vote did not participate in the compulsory agricultural chamber elections. The question is how legitimate it can be for a 7 percent participation to regard any leadership and level of management of the Chamber. Thus, with various tricks and tricks, they ensured the full fidesze-magos occupation of the agricultural chamber network, they turned a professional organization entirely into a political organization. Now the Chamber of Agriculture asks Parliament to have access to most of the farmers' personal and management data. Let us ask: where will the expansion of the agricultural chamber stop, and where will it be when it no longer wants to? At the same time, the Chamber of Agriculture, which cannot be called politically neutral, has significant resources each year from Brussels grants and membership fees, but it is not sufficiently transparent to spend them, nor is there a principle of transparency. In 2014 alone, the Chamber of Agriculture gained HUF 1 billion from the European Union for the development of the farm information service, and it collects approximately HUF 1.5-2 billion per year from membership fees and the outstanding membership fees can be collected as taxes. This also raises fundamental questions as to how much the collection of the chamber membership fee in this way serves the interests of membership. Despite significant resources, the scope of the essential services provided to farmers is limited, for example, assistance to the host information system does not contribute to the writing of applications. In addition to the resources already mentioned, the Chamber received an additional 1.7 billion from the central budget due to the addition of the villager network to NAK. I will make only a few specific remarks regarding the law, since, as I explained in detail earlier, the fish in the Chamber of Agriculture reek of its head, and all further legislative work on this subject is essentially meaningless. In any event, to enhance transparency, the LMP will propose amendments to the Agricultural Chamber Act. I've already signed these today and they've been submitted. Article 8 § 2 states that the statutes may lay down discounts which reduce the basis or the level of payment of the member's fee. It is not clear from the presentation who, on the basis of these regulations, will be subject to a reduction in the fee of members, on what basis, and how they can give relief and what bodies. What the purpose, meaning, potential personality, practical significance of the patronage and honorary chamber membership is also unknown. [[21.10]] Five, six, seven. § 1 is about the membership list and the reporting obligations. Here, in practice, if someone has looked at the legislative amendment proposal, apart from the size of the farmers' rubber boots, they will ask everything, even though this is the only one left out, which is directly linked to farming. In the future, the Chamber of Agriculture will be able to handle data on economic operators in a very wide range, with almost unlimited access to public databases. The current activities do not justify this, in addition to the fact that this is completely incompatible with the data protection law and the personal data protection legislation, since it is not entirely incomprehensible as an administrative body how a public body could have access to a multitude of private individuals and public databases. The bill only anticipates, but does not clarify, what new public tasks the Chamber of Agriculture will take over from the state in the future. They are practically entrusted to agreements between the Government and the Chamber, and the Chamber can also carry out tasks on the basis of a separate agreement for a separate remuneration, which is also not known from the presentation what they will be and how they will be decided either at government level or at chamber level. Article 9 In paragraph 4 of Section 4, we do not know what it means that the Chamber of Agriculture carries out tasks of cooperation in the use of agricultural subsidies. This indicates, in any case, the substantial strengthening of the role of the politicised and debatable legitimised chamber as a money-distributor. It has been suggested that this AVH, I'm sorry, may want to take over the powers of MVH, but it is not clear what will happen here. So in the legislation, we would obviously be curious about what this is in particular, since this is the 9th. Paragraph 4 of Section 4 provides for relatively broad frameworks and is not completely transparent. Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. It also places the entire agricultural and rural development consultancy in the role of the Chamber of Agriculture. It is not clear what will then become of the National Agricultural Advisory, Training and Rural Development Institute, or how it will change, how it will carry out its communication tasks, nor can it be seen what will become of the so far events, so obviously there are questions in the current practice. Article 14 As a public task, the Chamber of Agriculture receives master's education and can even participate in adult education. As a very, very interesting thing about this, the statistics of the last three years on how the land law has evolved, let us say, the proportion of basic agricultural education. I would like to remind you that while in 2012, 1100 people, in 2013, I think 1,400 people, in 2014, more than 5 000 people wanted to start a goldfish farm. Obviously, this is the way to avoid easily the restriction that the government was trying to prevent from doing with the law on land, and it is said to have been effective. Article 16 is replaced by the following: The single-member presidential power in the Chamber will continue to be strengthened in section 5. The Chairperson may take over and delegate the powers of the Director-General. He said that if the Director-General is prevented, and if the Director-General's post is not filled, he may take over the powers of Director-General or delegate that power to the national vice-president responsible for the general replacement of the President, Deputy Director-General. So it's an unorganized management structure, when technically, if I want it, there is one, if I want it, there isn't one, if I want it, I'll bring it to me, if I want it, I'll hand it over to the vice president. Therefore, this type of regulation does not in any way create legal certainty or the stability of chamber membership. Not least, despite the promise of Sándor Fazekas, local land committees have not yet been able to decide on the sale of agricultural land, although this should have been the case since April - there have been legal obligations to do so - there is still no implementing regulation on the operation of local land committees, and because of the lack of a regulation, the agricultural chamber county organizations established by Fidesz will carry out this task instead of the committees. Obviously, this also raises concerns and, among others, gives rise to some surprising fear of how this will be done in a centralised organisation. Now practically the law of the land... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then in a proper statement, I apologize. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now time for the pre-notification of the speech in writing. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, T/2088 on the amendment of certain agricultural legislation in connection with the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. In fact, the legislative proposal No.3 seeks to amend four laws. The proposal is primarily the 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development. It concerns the amendment of law, but may, in a smaller part, also affect three other laws. It concerns certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development as well as fisheries aid and other measures (Article XVII of 2007) law in order to avoid situations in which aid is claimed in order to jeopardise the call for aid because of defaults which are fundamentally minor or easy to replace. It is also concerned with the 2011 CLV on vocational training contributions and support for the development of training. a law, where the proposal seeks to address the competences and financial issues involved in the performance of vocational training tasks. It is also affected by the 2013 CXXII on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. Law in order to allow the Chamber to temporarily carry out its local land committee tasks, as defined by law, and to provide domestic legal assistance in an appeal procedure against the decision of the agricultural administration. The proposed addition of land traffic rules could also serve data protection purposes. Thus, overall, the amendment submitted could essentially mean refining the legislation governing the operation of the Chamber. With the new proposed regulatory method, the Chamber may also establish a sufficiently flexible membership fee scheme, and the proposal includes specific rules for the termination of the chamber membership relationship for primary producers. This provision is clearly intended to ensure the continuous operation of the Chamber. According to the proposal, only members of a member's fee or those who fail to provide information would not receive an initial producer's card or a deposit card, so that those who do not belong or qualify as a new original producer could be dealt with in accordance with the general rules. I am very confident that, after the Committee on Agriculture has taken this draft law into consideration, that, together with further discussions and amendments, the law will be brought back to the House, and I hope that it will be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group has applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised to hear the debate and what the Ministry and the Secretary of State expressed as criticism to the Chamber and to the Member. I do not think that we can better show that, by the way, the agricultural chamber has been politicised by its operation, which has manifested itself in this improved, but rather instructive, reaction, which is related to the bill. I am pleased that Congressman has heard the otherwise instructive style that is not far from the Ministry and the Minister in charge of the Ministry, Mr Sándor Fazekas. It seems to me that you've just given yourself a massive criticism, and it seems that you've intended a lesson for you, because you know that you may have previously had political ambitions between you and him, or it was some rivalry, so it seems you sent a crystal clear message that it's time to come up with a much better quality bill. It seems that Sándor Fazekas, through his secretary of state, sent a message in his own Döbögyi style that we should pay more attention to legislation. The other, beyond rivalry, I do not know why to admit it, as it seems that Minister may also turn against the Chamber of his own people, since we know that there is no person, such as Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, who is very closely connected to him. He doesn't seem to be able to decide right now whether to punish you with his personal ambitions or put his own people in position. I think that you can draw the criticism from this, and if you know Minister, you will be able to do this massive lesson for this teaching style. I sympathize with you; with this style, I think it was more criticism and more comments than the entire bill itself, so you have been thoroughly challenged overall. Cheer up, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In a normal time frame, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group, asked for a floor. You have the floor. [[21.20]]
u2014-12-03-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now I will be shorter, only a few more thought left behind for the previous conclusion, because I was just wondering how long it would take for the land committees to not stand up and how long the Chamber of Agriculture would grant these rights throughout the country. And so in the proposal, it would now amend the land law in order for the Chamber of Agriculture to be able to manage land sales data for five years. So it also makes us wonder why they should be treated for five years. Obviously, this would not be the task of a public body, so to register Hungary's land policy and land, a much wider and more secure government background would be needed. This was what was left behind at the legislative level. I'd like to say two or three more things about everyday life and practice. So whether the Chamber of Agriculture is able to represent the farmers properly, obviously I also have or is also indicated by the fact that this amending proposal has actually come in. From everyday practice, we see that, let's say, the system of surrendering area payments is not effective. Technically, the Land Administration has every land use registration system, it has what people do, because they have to report it. In principle, the MVH will only pay an area area area if all these data are authentically available. However, the system does not take advantage of this knowledge, but farmers must do so year after year separately. In addition to going to the Land Administration separately to make land use announcements or withdraw them, the same change should be submitted year after year in each case, in addition to the farm documents, what he sowed and what he did for his land, he must also do in his area submission. The system would be simplified, but that's not what we're looking at. In the same way, let me tell you, a lot of people think that what we do at home is not animal husbandry, it's a zoo. We have horses, donkeys, sheep, cattle, and a different registration system for each breed. I constantly demand the horse passports, we do the cattle in ENAR continuously, we have to consult with an instructor to register the sheep and goats. The government system is opaque. Farmers' lives would be helped by a simple query, like ENAR, to allow systems to work for all types of animals with which I can access data. So I wanted to point out with these ideas that there are a number of options that could still represent the interests of farmers in Parliament, and that if the head of the agricultural chamber did so, he could take advantage of the opportunity that I criticized why he represented it. Because these would not strengthen the organisation of the agricultural chamber, but would expand the opportunities of farmers and simplify their lives. So the good thing is that, after a multitude of proposals of this kind, we should talk about the legitimacy of the membership of the Chamber of Agriculture, how sustainable the need for its system is. I think that if such services were to help each farmer's life, then there would be no need to be afraid of voluntary membership, because there would be an increase in the number of people who would want to use these services. So, at the moment, there are not very, very many chamber members who feel that the chamber is for him, but rather that they seem to be for the chamber, so that the chamber can justify its own existence. I would ask Mr President to believe that I did not intend to say a political attack with my speech, but that I wanted to highlight the operation of the Chamber of Agriculture with a different approach. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's one little thing I have to tell you here, because we're talking about the relationship between democracy and the Chamber. I believe that if democratic operation were typical of the Chamber, it would require that the tasks of the Chamber's representation be defined by self-organised local host councils, and that validation should be taken into account by the county and national bodies. Instead, what is it? The Chamber of Agriculture is a top-down organisation that ignores local initiatives and is decisive in enforcing the needs of central state power against its membership. Other fundamental contradictions are that the Chamber of Agriculture is also obliged to carry out administrative public tasks and to exercise administrative authority at first and second instance, which may exclude the representation of membership at conceptual level. I think that's easy to see. The institutional elimination of the bottom-up initiative and membership self-organization is well demonstrated by the formal nature of the county organisation of the Chamber of Agriculture and the emptying of its powers. According to this, the county metropolitan delegation is the organisation of the regional self-government of the agricultural chamber. The county and metropolitan delegation is responsible for the election of the regional organisation chair of the Chamber of Agriculture, as well as of its statutory officers, the election of national delegates and the decisions taken in the statutes. I think that they show the contradiction that we are discovering here between the democratic operation and the real operation of the Chamber, and it would have been good if this amendment had also corrected them. I have one more question for the Secretary of State, which does not belong closely to this law, but I would certainly like an answer. They promised that there would be a salad law, which will be submitted around the end of the year and settle the problems that have arisen over the year in relation to any agricultural legislation. Here I am thinking, for example, of the problem of small gardens, which a lot of people have already indicated to us, that they do not fall out of the possibility of continuing to cultivate areas that the family has been doing for decades. And it was about feeling, understanding this problem, the weight of this problem, and being treated in a year-end salad law. And it would be my respectful question to the Secretary of State that if you could answer whether this particular salad law will come this year, which will amend certain agricultural laws, and answer such minor technical questions, because what seems to us to be a technical little thing is very serious problems in people's everyday life. I've already referred to the gardens here. So if I could still get an answer to that, regardless of the debate on this law, I'd appreciate it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-254	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask President Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Balázs Győrffy:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. President.
u2014-12-03-255	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your comments, thank you very much for some improvements. I would like to justify some of the points, because I think that many of the speeches may have been based on the inadequately understood amendment proposal, that the intentions that basically generated these ideas could not be extracted from the proposal. The status of a farmer has been mentioned to be a member of the chamber as a farmer. Well, we believe that no one will be a farmer against his will, so it is quite interesting to suggest that the farmer should not be a member of the agricultural society, that he should not be a member of a public body of compulsory membership. We believe that this raises questions at both logical and linguistic level. We talked about the tax and tax exemption for the Chamber. I respectfully inform you that the National Chamber of Agriculture is tax-free and tax-free in some cases. That's what we wanted to focus on, by the way. The financing of the Chamber and the public service contract proposed by us have also been mentioned. There is no clear position here on Aht., at the moment the colleagues are still working, perhaps it outlines the form in which this can be put into the legal framework. But let's see why. The Chamber has received quite a number of public tasks this year, which we have a duty to carry out, as we are bound by law. At the same time, there is also a need to provide funds for the public task, and at the moment there is a government decision from 1.2 billion forints, which has not yet come into the Chamber's account, and therefore we need to finance these public tasks from the Chamber's membership fees, which is obviously not the normal course of things. Therefore, by drawing on the experience of the last year, we thought that this should be given an appropriate framework, because in the law now in force, it is also the case that public tasks can only be handed over to the public body under public funding by the governing authority at all times. The MVH procedure has also been discussed, hasn't it? In this, there is basically an improved intention, which - I am convinced - for everyone, at least this one thought, if not in this described form, is eligible. [[21.30]] I myself know of a case where the modernisation of a livestock farm of the order of 100 million has failed because the person's membership of the Slaughter and Meat Product Board and the document on it has not been found at the MVH. What we know is that you requested the paper from the VHT, you could prove by document when you asked for it: before the deadline. He didn't arrive at the MVH. The person claims to have sent it - untraceable. But why are we putting ourselves in this position? No EU legislation provides that this one poor piece of paper cannot otherwise be replaced. This is what we are proposing to make the MVH procedure a little more realistic and to spare our own farmers such. A family has failed to make a serious investment. So this is not an EU obligation. I am convinced that it is in the clear interest of either opposition or pro-government or government actors to overcome these non-life-like problems. Mr Zsolt Legény: the Member did not basically talk about the amendment of the law; he has already heard a lot of criticisms from his fellow parties, from the opposition, about the Chamber. I don't know if there's room for this in a general debate, but it's not my place to decide. But what I would like to say, Congressman, is that I did not say that the Chamber was just a public body. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Also!]] I said the chamber is a public body. That's how you said it, and I wanted to make that clear. How well the old Chamber system worked: Mr President, I respectfully inform you that in August 2012, when I first crossed the threshold as head of the Chamber and asked where we were financially, the Chamber had HUF 500 million in its account. There was one problem with this number: there was a horizontal line ahead. Minus 500 million forints were managed by the previous chamber system. Within six months, that chamber system would have failed financially by having, by the way, the obligation to operate the chamber advisory network around its neck. So the fact that the chamber system had been redesigned meant the rescue of the former chamber system. He made it clear that there are Magos leaders in the Chambers. Congressman, I respectfully inform you that the Chamber elections were won by Magos, so - how surprising - there are Magos leaders. But don't be surprised, the government is full of Fidesz party members. I don't know why you should be so surprised. I believe that, after a winning election, perhaps every organisation behind it has the right to provide the ideology it considers important with personal guarantees for positions that can be filled. In the case of the land committee, you said that the procedure was slow, which I don't really understand. There is only one case that we do not know when the Chamber would have exceeded the deadline of one minute, which is otherwise not so long in the six months that it is usually necessary to conclude a sale. The Chamber has 15 days to make an opinion. We've always done that. There's only one case you can't tell me when this didn't happen. Congressman Zoltán Magyar said that the Chamber is not fulfilling the task that we intended for him, we thought. In part, I agree, Mr President, that there are a lot of tasks ahead of us that need to be done in order to say that we are here. Although this moment may never come, there will always be other tasks to be solved. But let me draw your attention to how the chamber spends its daily lives. We provide services. Not sufficiently, but it is our intention and duty to operate and expand them well. Let me give you a list of some. We have adopted a code of ethics, which shows a decisive step and opportunity towards business integrity. We operate a free plant protection forecasting system, which we already have, but obviously in the absence of vegetation, because it's December, it doesn't work. In the spring, all farmers are already available to use the plant protection warning system on the Internet, and we intend to refine it further. If you want to - this is obviously already a paid service - we can provide personalized plant protection forecasting and advice through a smartphone application by providing the location number and culture. We provide free legal assistance to our members, which is a very successful and very popular service for the Chamber. It was a shortcoming. It's never been like this before. We have set up an insurance brokerage company, which is not a secret goal for us to move standing water in the insurance market. It is also our duty to integrate this power, which we have in compulsory membership, into economic benefits for membership. The chamber card serves the same purpose. We're talking about a $380,000 consumer group. This is seen by more and more companies, more and more companies, and more people are offering the opportunity to offer a discount to the members of the Chamber by presenting the chamber card. Honourable Congressman, We're going to make a nutrition plan, because the country's huge surface is nitrate-sensitive. This is a serious task for many farmers. The bar's system can provide that. We'll issue the original producer's ID free of charge. By the way, the previous price of the pre-production certificate is the same as the lowest bar of the current chamber membership fee. Thus, in this sense, prima facie producers, who were indeed farmers and not specialised in producer-type activity, did not specialise in production on the market, did not suffer any material disadvantage for them. I'll reassure the congressman that there will be a tender, because that's the job of the Chamber. In fact, for example, we have already been able to provide serious help to our members in the case of the young farmer's applications. Professional counseling - I wrote here for myself - is also a service. That is when I came across the suggestion from my fellow Member Sallai that we want to bring this to us. Congressman, counseling has been in the Chamber for a few months, just not on the basis of a legislative mandate, but on a regulation level. That doesn't mean anything new inside the operation. He said that it was not possible to substantially increase the participation in the chamber elections. I would like to tell you that only ten times more people voted than in the previous Chamber elections. The old bar system, which no one criticized so much, I'll tell you what situations you've brought up. There were times when there were more people on the nomination list at a county election than there were votes. Was that the well-functioning structure? [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] Congressman, that was more of a joke than a substantial public body. I'd like to tell you that membership fee, as you've also expressed criticism, is 11 lanes in the Chamber. Eleven lanes! The lowest rate is 2 thousand forints and the highest is 1 million forints. The amount of the membership fee is calculated on the basis of economic performance. The transmission, Congressman, is not for self-serving purposes. The Chamber has a legal obligation to keep a register of economic structures, and this is not for its own good. Our aim is to finally be able to tell where the Hungarian agricultural economy is at the moment. We often say where we want to go, how good it would be to achieve certain goals. We all agree on that. But there should also be a road. But if we don't know where we are at the moment, it's kind of hard to identify that path clearly. Rural job creation has also been mentioned. Sorry, I replied partly to Mr Zoltán Magyar's points, which I attributed to Mr Sallai, but there was some overlap, so the distinction was not clear. On the other hand, Congressman Sallai has been talking about job creation in rural areas. I believe that when the Chamber was given the opportunity by the government to take a position on the areas to which more than HUF 1000 billion of the rural development programme should be spent in the next six years, this was the standard rate, the increase in rural employment. Congressman, what we have said about where to turn our resources is to support livestock, gardening, processing, irrigated cultures. This is all a labour-intensive sector. If you like to look at the rural development program, all these thoughts come back to you. I think the Chamber is less spectacular, but it is a serious success in this area. He said it's a fidesz paying spot for the chamber. This, let's say, is a category of political attack. Excuse me, let me contradict you. Let me call you, give me specifics on where we were on the Fidesz pay line. I would like to ask you very specifics, because this is a very serious accusation, and I can assure you that you will not be able to say this, and I am embarrassingly taking care of this with all my colleagues. [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] The information law also applies to us. I assure you that it applies very strictly to us, so there's no need to be afraid that we can abuse this data. In the case of the municipal agricultural committees, whether or not notified, there was a procedure in this regard. [[21.40]] Let's get this straight. Nearly 3,000 municipal agricultural committees have been set up. In some places, there was a problem that the announcement of the inaugural meeting was on the municipal billboard for a few days less than the one that was written out. That was the most serious accusation the D.A. made about us. He said we'd include fairness as an opportunity. It is true, Mr Congressman, but this must also be settled by the statute. The amendment of the statutes can be carried out within a very strict framework, and the amendment of the statutes can only be made by the national delegation. I would like to assure you that we do not require any MVH powers. I don't want to scare the MVH with that; we don't want to. At vocational training, he blamed us for wanting to participate in this. Congressman, the Chamber has been involved in professional training, master's and exams since time immemorial, and this is not a new task either. I would say to Mr László György Lukács that I have not actually heard anything from you about the amendment of the law, so I cannot answer it in substance, but I must disappoint him, because with the ministries on Monday, almost all the topics, points that the Ministry could not support in the original construction, we talked about, and I think that if you wait for this Chamber and the Ministry to confront you, you will be disappointed, because I am sure that those amendments that we have discussed will be adopted, and the government will be able to support this legislation. Mr Sallai R. Benedek added one more thought: the support of the Chamber for uniform applications is not meaningful. Congressman, 134,000 out of 180,000 requests were submitted by chamber advisers. I would think that would be meaningful. [[to the intervention of Sallai R. Benedict:]] I'm sorry, the villagers and the former chamber advisors, together, which, by the way, is apparently now run by the Chamber. By the way, let me say that this year has never seen an unprecedented amount of village farmers, so there has been an increase in these numbers compared to previous years, and we are working seriously to prepare for the fact that the next year, because of the new common agricultural policy, obviously, those who have submitted this network, the village farmer's network, will also be looking for this network, the village farmer's network, because there will be a lot of new things to deal with. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. I think I've been trying to answer all the points you've shared with me in the closet. If we will have the opportunity to discuss specific cases and specific points in the detailed debate, I am here to respect you. Thank you very much for giving me the honor of your attention at this late hour. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-256	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the opening of shops until closure. Zsolt Semjén, KDNP; Péter Harrach, KDNP; János Latorcai, KDNP; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Attila Móring József, KDNP; András Aradszki, KDNP; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Rózsa Hoffmann KDNP; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; István Simicskó, KDNP; György Rubovszky, KDNP; Miklós Seszták, János Hargitai, Mátyás Földi, László Szászfalvi, László KDNP individual motion of Members T/1914 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-03-257	Mr President, Dear House, Let me start with the title, because I know that there is an amendment that not so much considers it important to keep shops open, but to limit Sunday employment. In Europe, Sunday, as a regular weekly rest day, has been built into people's rhythms for centuries. Sunday's rest day is a historic social achievement of European societies that is of great value. Accordingly, Sunday is a common day of rest in several European countries, with the necessary exceptions, of course. Sundays are traditionally spent with relaxation, recreation, family and friends. Free Sunday allows social relations to be maintained. Regular work on Sundays in many cases destroys family and social life, making it impossible to relax and recharge. The work on Sunday also concerns constitutional rights, and I do not want to mention them now. According to a previous decision of the Constitutional Court, the custom of Sunday rest day is based on traditions. Its current objective is to provide citizens with a single weekly rest day. Sunday work should therefore be an exception, which can only be ordered in justified cases and to a small extent. Currently, Sunday work in Hungary is not extraordinary, tens of thousands of people work on Sundays for various reasons. KDNP has repeatedly initiated restrictions on Sunday work, because the traditional Social Democratic Party does not; the only reason for this is that it does not exist in Hungary. [[Zoltán Lukács: You guys are real! You didn't have the guts to run for office in life.]] KDNP submitted its bill four years ago, which covered a much wider circle than this one. [[Zoltán Lukács: In life, he did not dare to run for office!]] At present, this regulation is possible with regard to commercial workers. According to the author, the situation is now ripe for the fact that, on the basis of a number of Western European examples, such as the Austrian or German model, there is a law governing the opening of commercial outlets in Hungary. The aim is to achieve a universal rest day: everyone whose work does not require continuous work or does not serve the day of rest of society. On a free Sunday, it is only a part of the multifaceted problems of commercial workers, because a large number of commercial employers, especially multinational companies, abuse the vulnerable situation of workers. They are employed for minimum wage, with considerable overwork. The proposal therefore serves to protect the interests of trade workers. It is necessary to have a day that every member of the family can spend together. If the rest day provided by the employer to compensate for Sunday's work falls on weekdays when, for example, children are in school, there is not a single day in the week when the family can be together. The bill seeks to limit trade, which is the driving sector of the national economy, only to a reasonable extent, subject to the application of obvious exceptions. Of course, the bill does not cover catering, the provision of services directly linked to the use of leisure time. In other words, it is proposed to eat in restaurants, to go to a café or to a cinema on Sunday and not to include commercial tourism activities and commercial activities in the accommodation. It regulates the opening of shops only on Sundays and holidays. In particular, it is appropriate to provide for a thorough definition of the scope of exceptions. It does not extend the scope of the law to the activities of certain establishments, such as fuel stations, pharmacies, airports, markets and others, as well as to certain activities: newspapers, florists, bakers and others, and also provides for the possibility for the government to, where appropriate, provide exceptions to specific procedures, in particular on the basis of the specific characteristics of the municipality concerned and on the basis of tourism considerations. [[21.50]] Of course, we do not want to limit the opening of small family businesses in the otherwise forbidden period if the owners or assisting family members of the business do the commercial activity themselves. The draft law does not intend to restrict Sunday shopping, but to protect workers' rights. Long negotiation... [[To Zoltán Lukács:]] Sleepy, Congressman? Or why are you moaning? [[Zoltán Lukács: I start moaning on my own.]] Yeah. [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes again.]] Well, you can moan, but you can do it outside. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-03-258	Please stop the dialogue. Be kind, Congressman. It's up to Team Leader. [[Zoltán Lukács: Sorry, the young man started it.]]
u2014-12-03-259	So this bill, with the interest representation bodies of workers, employers and families, went through a series of long reconciliations. Of course, the debate also appeared, and the counter-opinion was primarily sought by multinational companies, alarm, fear raising, false and air data with great energy and great money. In many cases, they appeared to the public with quotes, slides, low-quality and malicious revelations. There was an organization that turned away from supporting a bill that had been a champion for many years. Many, as in other cases, considered Internet media as a virtual tavern, where subpar texts are shouted at the table next door. This is a disease of the Hungarian public, it did not avoid this topic and the debate about it. But I think the point is that the adoption of the bill is for the healthy family, primarily for the family of workers, and for the healthy social life, so I ask all my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2014-12-03-260	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. I give you the floor, Minai... [[For signal:]] Sorry, Honourable Parliament - we've been working for a few hours. So, Honourable Parliament, I would like to ask you, on behalf of the Government, if you wish to speak, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, I will follow you and give you the floor.
u2014-12-03-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let us honestly admit that the question is raised, and now no matter how we raise it, closing shops or protecting employees' interests in the case of Sunday work, it is a struggle of interests and conflicts of interests. Interests, because there is no person in Hungary who hasn't been to the store on Sunday and wouldn't have bought, so he wouldn't know what it is. Indeed, many, many employees and very, many employers and entrepreneurs are concerned, so the adoption of this bill has become a social issue in essence. If we look at interests, then, I think, first of all, we need to look at economic interests. Trader interests, public and employment interests must be examined. It is necessary to examine the interests of traders in this matter. Traders may fear that their turnover will decrease, thereby reducing their turnover, profits and capital. I think that obviously only assumptions can be made, but I think that a reasonable argument and answer to this question is that if there is a purchasing power parities in Hungary, then the fact that someone can obtain their goods for six days is likely to spend the same amount. So trade interests, I think, may not be impaired from the point of view that consumption and sales will be reduced at the overall economic level, but from the point of view of purchasing habits. Don't give it to me, God, this solution can also stimulate competition among traders. We might even get to the point where it's gonna affect the price issue, which is gonna be good for the customers. The question arises from the state's point of view, too, that if this were true, there would certainly be less revenue, especially VAT revenue, because the budget would not be able to expect so much revenue if people did not consume so much. Because if they don't consume it, they'll probably save it and collect it later. I believe that the state cannot raise this question from a budgetary point of view, so it cannot put the decision on the balance sheet in this respect. And we also need to examine what the employment interest is. So is it true that, in the event of such a decision, fewer trade workers will be needed and will have an impact on employment, so that many people may have to look at other work temporarily? However, if the first item is true that the purchasing power remains the same and spends it for consumption, it is likely that the purchase option will be reduced in time, but the amount of goods and services sold is the same, then it is likely that the same number of employees will be required. So in this regard, if the first claim is true, we have nothing to hold on to from the point of view of employment, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is well known that there is a lack of skilled labour in trade so far, so it may not be a social problem at national and national level that requires specific treatment in the case of some redeployment. It is a very important issue to raise social interests, to examine customer habits. At all, the question of supply is whether this threatens the supply and supply of commercial goods to Hungarians. This is also a very important question. I think that on this issue, if we look at the interests of consumers, so that there is a custom in Hungary, going to a shop and shopping on Sunday, then there will certainly be people who will resent this, that they may not be able to go into business on Sunday. And if it was a replacement act, maybe we'll have to look into another activity. And if shopping really was typical, because I hear things, I can also say that a whole family goes shopping on Sunday, and it's basically a vacation, because it's good to look around, you can meet people you know, and you can go shopping. Well, that's an insult to a family, a private person, because he has to change his habits, and by Sunday, he may have to come up with a different kind of activity, not to give it to the family, the same way. By no means should it interfere with the quality of care, since the final solution will not be white or black. Mr. Group leader said that all shops will now be closed on Sunday in Hungary, and that nothing will be used, or there will be solutions that will, however, propose a different solution. [[22.00]] So, in this respect, I do not think that this could raise a problem of social security. It is a very interesting question, and I am going to ask you what happened when, for example, Saturday's work in Hungary ceased. Of course, I know that was a different system, it was a different world, but still, I think that services have been lost, I think that working hours have been reduced, so jobs should have stopped, we have changed habits. Of course, this has affected everyone, the whole workforce, positively, because there was an extra day off, Saturday's day off, and we had to adjust our way of thinking and our habits to do so. I can relate to this a little bit, like the decision at the time of the end of Saturday's workday, because it had to have such a benefit, or at least at the level of thinking it has to be. Well, after considering economic and social interests, it's not by accident that I'm taking on employee interests for the last time. The interests of workers, because I believe that workers who are directly affected by this clearly have an interest in not having to work for them on Sunday, of course, so that this cannot cause them an existential issue. I believe that the Hungarian economy is already so strong and that it will be further strengthened that this issue should be put to the fore. So it is not economic interests and not social habits that must be made, I think, the final decision, but basically respect for the interests of workers, the appreciation and the possibility that, indeed, the worker has the right not to work on Sundays in this respect, and the same day of rest, for him to have the same day off. What I can say is that the government is also taking this position, and that its employees are putting human interests first, when it says that it is in this context that the government is clearly expressing its support for the bill, of course only if we can find appropriate compromises, we are looking for compromises, because today, too, the Ministry of National Economy has been consulted with trade workers' unions, interest representation bodies. All in all, I can therefore say that the establishment of a government position means that, on balance, the workers' interests are given priority and compromises are sought, on the basis of the stated criteria, the government will be able to support and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Péter Harrach and Dr. Bence Rétvári applaud.]]
u2014-12-03-262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-263	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A draft law on the opening of shops when a group meeting...
u2014-12-03-264	Congressman, the microphone isn't working, we're trying to look at it again...
u2014-12-03-265	He's telling me now. Let's start over. So that's okay? Can you hear me? [[For signal:]] Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At our meeting on Monday, KDNP's proposal, the draft law on the opening of shops, and we are aware that we are having a serious debate with this bill and draft legislation. After the comments, I think we will receive a number of questions as answers, questions and debates from the opposition, but we will try to answer them, because our intentions in this matter are fair and in the interests of workers. But let us look a little beyond our borders at how they do this Sunday's work in the field of commerce. In Germany, the opening of shops is strictly limited. On Sundays and holidays, only pharmacists, gas stations, bakeries and shops at airports and railway stations can open. Since 2006, however, this has not been decided by the German State but by the provinces. For example, shops in Brandenburg can open six times a year and 11 times a year in North Rhine-Westphalia. The strictest restrictions on opening hours are in Bavaria, here from Monday to Saturday until 8:00 p.m., and on Sundays the shops cannot open at all. Despite this, there is a so-called "Verkaufsoffener Sonntag" throughout the country, the Sunday of the open market in Hungarian, which allows shops to open on Sundays and holidays selected in certain cities. The Sunday opening regulation has been in force in Austria since 67. The current system operates according to a 2008 law amendment. According to the law, from 6:00 a.m. Saturday to 6:00 a.m. on Monday. The aim of the law is mainly to protect smaller businesses with limited numbers of workers and to create simpler working conditions. According to a survey carried out by the Austrian private employee union in Vienna in October this year, the nearly 5500 employees surveyed were 94.3% against the opening hours on Sunday, and this figure is the same as the results of the 2006 survey. Dear House, The bill submitted in Hungary also aims to limit trade, which is the driving sector of the national economy, to a reasonable extent, while applying the obvious exceptions, while also helping to make Sunday a day of rest for the vast majority of the country, a day off on which even the short time open to family life is not interrupted by the time spent shopping. In the case of this bill, there is a particular reason for a thorough definition of exceptions, which I also consider very important for the legislator to consider. On the one hand, it does not extend the scope of the law to certain establishments, such as petrol stations, the pharmacy concerned, as well as to certain newspaper vendors, florists, bakers and others. On the other hand, it also provides for the possibility for the Government to, where justified, provide exceptions to a specific procedure, in particular on the basis of the specific characteristics of the municipality concerned and on the basis of tourism considerations. Some exceptional Sunday opening hours would also be supported by the government at a pre-arranged time, thus helping, for example, the commercial traffic during the Advent period when 30-40 percent of the annual turnover in shops and shops is carried out. The government is not expecting a decrease in customer traffic, as this will be dissolved the rest of the week, and the Secretary of State Tállai has already said so. This means that cuts should not be alarmed, as the quantity of goods to be purchased will not decrease, it would only change over time, so it would require the same number of people as before, as the amount of work to be done would not change. Not to mention the lack of skilled workers in the commercial sector. The Hungarian economy is already in such a stable state, Honourable House, that it is able to move through Sunday regulation without obstacles. The proposal would only protect the interests of trade workers by introducing a single day of rest. The government is primarily concerned with the interests of workers and not of the supermarket chains. It is necessary for them to have a day that all members of the family can spend together. A common time spent together in today's rushing world is essential for bringing families together, for the balanced development of our children and for the right family image. It is important to remember how important it is to make time for us and our children. The more time we spend with our children, the closer and deeper a relationship we can develop with them. Thus, not TV, the computer, but its parents will be the most important to our children, individuals, experiences that are essential for the positive development of their character. Dear House, It is an important objective of the proposal not to restrict the opening of small family businesses if these are not large commercial units. In otherwise prohibited periods, the owners of the business or their assisting family members carry out the commercial activity themselves. [[22.10]] If there were a functioning, genuine social democratic party in Hungary today, it would have to come up with proposals similar to Sunday's closure. Since this is not given, a Christian-socially motivated party has to take on the interest of workers. Dear House, Fidesz wants no one to work but those working in public facilities on Sunday. The first step is the birth of a law prohibiting Sunday work on trade. On the part of the Fidesz faction, we discussed the proposal to keep shops closed on Sunday, which we will support under conditions and amendments, but we are aware that we will trigger serious debates with the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-266	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This law has been submitted by the Christian Democratic People's Party, a party with virtually no social support, which has never started independently in the election, which takes the liberty of educating the other parties. In fact, they could have submitted that we should have stopped the work of 20,000 Hungarian workers, because today, according to calculations, if this law was adopted and applied, about 20,000 Hungarian workers could have lost their jobs in trade. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] That's not what we're saying, that's what professional organizations say, and trade unions say, they're the ones who calculated it. The Trade Employees Trade Union says that it does not want to be a partner in a measure that can reduce the number of jobs or workers' income. Literally, the draft legislation that has been produced in recent weeks is a serious attack on trade as a whole, by punishing, threatening supermarket chains and ultimately pushing them out of Hungary, seriously endangering the workplaces, the safety and livelihood of the families concerned. That's what trade unions say. It is also said that if it is prohibited to work in trade on Sundays, it means less working time and fewer workers are required for less working hours, so this law can destroy a multitude of families and make it more difficult. There are currently 330 to 340 thousand people working in trade, and about 100,000 commercial workers are affected by Sunday's opening hours. So if you shut down the shops on Sunday, then out of this 100,000 employees, trade unions and trade trade associations say that one in five employees will be dismissed. Why, it's simple, I just told you: less working time requires fewer people. Therefore, there is no need to look at turnover in this regard and not at traffic in this regard, because if there is less working time, there is less people to do, and if there is the same traffic in six days - and there is no reduction in traffic - then a shift of people will become unnecessary. There will be more traffic on Saturday, because Sunday traffic will also appear on Saturday, if there are 12 cashiers in a department store, they can't plant 18 cashiers there even if there is an increase in traffic. That's what the union says, they're absolutely right about that. As a result, although they say that traffic will not decrease - otherwise it will also decrease some - but if it takes less time and the store is closed for one day, even if there is more traffic on another day, there are no more employees in the store. Therefore, this argument is completely flawed. There are already 40,000 unemployed who had their last job in trade. So there are 40,000 unemployed people working in trade so far, if what trade unions and professional organisations say is true, then about 15 to 20 thousand more are expected to do so, and even though they are told that they will be placed and absorbed by trade, because there are a total of 2 thousand empty commercial jobs in Hungary today. If you look at the 40,000 people alone, if you marry 10-20,000 people, then that 2 thousand commercial jobs doesn't seem like much to them. So, with Sunday's lockdown, they threaten the safety of many families. Why are you doing all this? They say that they are acting to protect workers' rights, and that is why they are doing so. Ladies and gentlemen, the interests of workers should have been protected when a labour code was adopted that makes workers virtually completely vulnerable in Hungary. You voted in favour of this code of work. It was you who voted in favour of the looting of workers. You brought this labor code. Today's legislation on labour law is entirely your responsibility. You were the ones who allowed workers to reduce their wage allowances or to remove wage allowances from employees. We sat here and argued for more than 10 hours about this Code of Work in the previous term, we tabled 750 amendments, you all voted it down to one thread, and we told you precisely that these consequences would appear, then you were not so committed to the issue of workers' rights. You voted in favour of the Labour Code on which Hungarian workers need to work more today for less money. We did not vote for this, and you voted for it. They say that families should be together, that every family should be together on Sunday, except maybe at the time of advent, that's also in the law. So the Hungarian Christian Democrats say that families should be together all year round, except during the Advent period. I congratulate the Hungarian Christian Democrats on this proposal. You say that the ultimate purpose of the law is for no one to work on Sundays. Ladies and gentlemen. On the one hand, please note that on Sunday, in this country, there are about 100,000 people working not only in trade. There are multiples of people who work in other places. I'm not just talking about cops, firefighters, soldiers, medical workers, but I'm talking about those industrial park workers that they're working on Saturdays and Sundays and Saturday nights, and Sunday nights, 12 hours, because the truck starts, and they have to fill it up with stuff. These people are not the subject of this proposal. It's all about commercial workers, and they have to be with their families on Sunday. Industrial park workers don't have to be with their families on Sunday. The police, the firefighters and no one else need it, especially the store clerks have to be with their families. A comprehensive regulation would be necessary in this regard, and what you are saying would even have a basis for reality. So, that's two-faced and deceitful talk. In vain, you are now trying to be a great protector of the workers in this matter, because you have been in government for five years now, you have introduced labour law regulations here. You say in your national comment that workers are being exploited in Hungary. But if you say that workers are being exploited in Hungary, I would like to say that you have been in government for five years, and if you can exploit workers in Hungary, then you can exploit workers in Hungary because of the labour law that you have made; not because of the regulation that we have made, but because of the regulation that you have made. By doing so, you admit that in Hungary you have adopted a labour code on the basis of which workers are exploited today. Thank you for finally recognising what opposition parties have been saying for a long time. Yes, yes, you have made laws that can exploit workers in Hungary. We are finally on a platform here, and then they just have to say that there is a need for new labour law rules. I'm glad, by the way, if you've found that out, you should just tell Minister Lazarus that if he hadn't illegally worked 10 to 12 hours in the ministry and didn't say in the press that he had made up his mind to work there for ten hours, and if he didn't like it, he could leave the Ministry, then this government would be much more credible in this matter. Because if we protect the workers here, then maybe we should protect the workers there, and not cynically say that he is the minister there, and he will tell us how many hours to work in the ministry, otherwise illegally, you know that, as we do. [[22.20]] And you are very happy to refer to Western European examples, saying that shops are closed there, and this custom must also be introduced here. We agree that we also want to avoid working on Sundays. Not just in trade, but in industry, we don't have to work on Sundays, as many people as possible can be with our family on Sundays! I just want to say that you compare countries in a social and social situation with Hungary and compare workers with Hungarian workers that are sky and earth. Social, income and in all respects light-years ahead of us are these countries. So it is possible to say now that we are doing the same thing, but your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in 2011 that until we can make a living from five days' work a week, we do not have the opportunity to keep the shops closed on Sunday. Since 2011, it is still impossible to make a living from five days a week's work. And it's a tiny mathematical fact that taking one out of seven days is still not five, it's only six. But it is still impossible to make a living from this work, so I do not know why the Prime Minister and his government think that this can now be accepted. While workers' poverty has appeared, a lot of people in the social sphere are now talking about it; those who have jobs can't make a living, and if they're taking it away from them now, and certainly not. Ladies and gentlemen. What we should understand is that there is a difference of opinion between us, not that we don't have to work on Sundays, and we all agree on that - it's just that we have a debate between us. Its effects and its potential. Because Sunday people work in Hungary not because it is not against the law, but because they need the small allowance they earn with Sunday work. Because if a shop salesman works three Sundays, he will take 15-18,000 forints more home, and in his social situation that 15-18,000 forints serves survival. These people are in this state today. They're in a situation like this. That's why I think you all need this money. If they didn't need it, of course they wouldn't be working on Sunday. But because they need it, they're forced to work on Sundays. Do you know how much an average Hungarian trade worker earns? A significant proportion of commercial workers are declared on minimum wage, and the net amount of the minimum wage is below the Hungarian minimum wage. Then don't tell me you don't need that Sunday allowance. Once again, they're not working in a good mood on Sunday, they're working on Sundays out of necessity. It may be difficult for someone who buys a 180 million fork and goes to a concert and travels for a million dollars, for someone who cares for 15 thousand forints a month, but it is true. And so it can be said 12 times that there are no left-wing parties here, and why the left-wing party doesn't say that Sunday doesn't have to work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is pipe vision. It's not about working on Sundays, and I'm telling you once again, you've raised hundreds of thousands of people working on Sundays, and you're trying to make yourselves a hero, because there's no one else I've told you about. Don't make me work on Sundays. But if you can figure out that by abolishing Sunday work, there will be no fewer incomes, no jobs at risk, no job losses in this case, and there is no existential negative impact on the people, then we can agree that we do not have to work on Sundays. But what we can't do is say that we don't have to work on Sundays, but we simply refuse to take the social consequences into account, because we have decided that the economy is working well. It's just that people don't see that this economy works so well, and shop salesmen are happy to live from one salary to another. This is the great Hungarian truth, and we should face it. So everyone should earn enough to make a living on the wages of your five-day job, and at that moment, we will abolish Sunday work and vote happily with you. But while we are putting a country in a social crisis in an even more difficult social situation, we should consider whether it is now time for this measure, or perhaps we should consider a few more rounds. You have the opportunity to create the conditions. Let's reconvene. We shouldn't pull out of the trade agreement, but the government would have an opportunity to participate in this. We should raise the wages, put in the guaranteed minimum wage, that's what the union's been asking for for a while, but nothing's going on. The Code of Work must be reopened, the rules of the Labour Code on supplements should be looked at, the rules of the Labour Code on compulsory rest days. This should be opened, this should be re-regulated first, and from then on, Sunday work could be completely different. But you put the roof on the house without the walls, starting on the top. It will not work, ladies and gentlemen, because it will cause a social crisis. We would also like it to be a five-day work week, and we would also like it to be a 40-hour work week, but we would also like those places to earn so much in these five-times eight hours that it is safe to go. It is possible to say that families should go to the movies, and I would just like to say that it is for a family of four to go to the movies today, about 12,000 forints. That's exactly three Sundays a store clerk makes. So maybe the family is together, and then you can definitely be together and watch the four walls, because you can't afford to go to the movies, baths or theaters you mentioned. So once again, I agree that we should talk about this, we agree that we should work five days, but we do not agree that they will do this at the cost of making people more difficult. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Member of Parliament, KDNP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We have heard an extremely passionate speech from left-wing Members or MSZP Members, the Member. I think this bill is a good opportunity for the MSZP to consider whether it wants to cast a left-wing vote as a left-wing party. Because when it comes to words, whether in this Parliament or in some trade union assembly or in some left-wing Mayal, we hear very nice words from some politicians of the Hungarian Socialist Party, just when action or vote is needed, they suddenly back away from voting for the benefit of workers, from deciding for the benefit of workers and workers. Let's think about how the Hungarian Socialist Party has demolished the image of its own left wing in previous years, and how it has lost most of its supporters. For example, in 2008-2009, when the Hungarian budget went into insolvency because of the economic crisis, and the IMF took on a loan to consolidate whom the left-wing government at the time consolidated with this money, it did not consolidate debtors, foreign exchange lenders, but consolidated the banks and sent the first references to the banks. When it came to raising the minimum wage, which was raised by right-wing governments twice or three times as high, if we look at the average of the last 10-15 years as left-wing governments, if we were talking about raising the minimum wage, then the socialists never took the interest of workers in the first place, never considering the demands of workers, trade unions and raising the minimum wage to a greater extent, but in every case they accepted the argument of employers' representatives, the large international companies, not to raise the wage, because it could easily result in redundancies in large multinational companies, large companies, which is why they have always heard the voice of employers' organisations, large international companies, and they have always raised only a teeny-third of what Fidesz-KDNP raised at the minimum wage level, half of what Fidesz-KDNP raised. But this was no different when it came to housing costs, the fees. They always heard the voices of the big companies, fifteen times during their eight-year government, who wanted to raise the prizes, and never the voices of the poor, deprived people who said that the hardest thing for them was to pay the increased fees. The Hungarian Socialist Party never had an ear to the voice of those who lived with little money, but always heard the voice of the Hungarian Socialist Party, which had large capital and large money. At the minimum wage, he never considered employees' interests to be of primary importance, but always the interests of large companies. And when it came to debtors, foreign exchange loans, the interests of the banks were always taken into account by the Hungarian Socialist Party, the consolidation of the banks, the additional payments to the banks, not the debtors. And here we are again in a situation like this, when the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party who spoke first and the whole group could decide whose side he is on: on the side of those workers whose day off on Sunday has not been provided, who, as we propose, has no guarantee in Hungary for 52 days of rest on Sunday, or 47 commissioners on Sunday, as opposed to Austria, Germany, Italy, France, Belgium and many other countries, is looking to the interests of the workers; or again, as has been the case, just put the proposal of the mall association in the MSZP's communication with copy-paste, and does not pay any attention to what the employees, workers, just listen to what the employers, the representatives of large-capital companies are saying. [[22.30]] There have been a wide variety of opinions over the past few weeks, or we can say, from the point of view of KDNP, for six years now, since this proposal has been raised, but somehow the Socialist Party has heard only and only the voices that were against the expansion of workers' rights. In his speech, he expressed his views only to those interest representatives who were heading in this direction, even though in recent weeks everyone could hear everything and the opposite of everything, because there were opinions that the MSZP said would involve huge redundancies, others said that this would not involve dismissals at all, that no one's work was at risk. In fact, there is a shortage of labour in trade, which is supported by the fact that one of the large chains of stores has opened their own vocational schools, where they train sellers, because there is so much shortage of labour in trade that they create their own school to train workers and workers themselves, because there is a huge shortage of it. And it is well known that there is a shortage of workers in trade in shops in Transdanubia, and that is why workers work much more than would otherwise be permissible under the Labour Code, precisely because there are no workers to be employed in the trade. The speech of the head speaker of the MSZP contained a lot of self-contrasts. Let me just tell you one thing. On the one hand, he attacked this bill because of why he was giving free Sundays to commercial workers, said his many arguments, and then explained why this bill would not otherwise provide Sundays for non-commercial workers. So the problem with the proposal for trade workers was that they were granted free Sundays, and the problem with the bill was that non-commercial workers were not granted free Sundays. So it is also bad that if someone has an extra driver's license, and it is also bad that if one stays in the former labour law situation, so the opposite of everything and everything, what is in this law, and what is not guaranteed to others, was also disputed by the opposition. At the same time, I say that this is a classic left-wing proposal. You know very well that if you go up to the international website launched by the international movement for candidates and representatives of the European Union to ensure a free Sunday in the European Union, there you will find representatives of the European Social Democratic Party family, not exclusively, other Members have signed the declaration that they have joined the European Union's goal of providing all or more workers in the European Union on a free Sunday, but there the socialists will also stand up. Then, if the socialist European Parliament delegation, which is not a populous one, meets their left-wing colleagues there, try to explain at European level why they are against it. I think that if someone here wants to bring a Western idea into the regulation here and follow the examples of Western Europe in this area too, then they should support this proposal, because this practice is first and foremost in the countries west of Lajta. What is in Hungary is the legacy of the past 25 years, rather, it corresponds to wild Eastern relations. But I think that if someone is looking for a proposal on the left and on the west in one of its values, he will find it precisely in the proposal on Sunday free, and he will reject the increased representation of workers, and he will also refuse to have regulations in place in Hungary in Western Europe and not in the Wild East. I would also like to say that, according to the data published last week by the Central Statistical Office, retail sales have increased by 4.5 percent and, obviously, the growth of trade flows requires more than one employee. It is very simple, honourable Member, the formula of why we need, let us say, more tellers. If you go to a large store, where there are several cash registers, you can see that five or ten of the twenty cash registers there usually work, let's say, but a lot of them don't work. I think that on Saturday days in these stores, we have to set up new cashiers, which obviously requires the work of the people who worked on Sundays, otherwise, this Saturday they have to go in and work on Saturdays, Mondays or Tuesdays or Thursdays. I think that everyone who is a little deep in this case knows that Wednesday and Saturday is the shopping day in Hungary, then there is a very high trade turnover, and on Sunday there is a very large reduction in the volume of trade turnover compared to every other day. So, when you look at the day off trade, the smallest day that is far from the day before the other days falls out of this traffic, and it is transferred to other shops and small shops, where it obviously generates jobs, and jobs where someone works as a owner in the store, so they also act as owners and employees at the same time. In doing so, I think it is a right direction to create more jobs in this sphere. On the other hand, in these shops, this demand will appear on other days, just the Sunday of the workers free, thank God, we can also ensure that if we accept this proposal and they can rest or be with other people on the day when their children are not in school, or when their friends and acquaintances are also spending their day off, so they can meet them. There have also been calculations, some financial and economic websites that have been able to read such ones, which have calculated that the introduction of free Sunday may result in an increase in commercial traffic, since if people do their Sunday shopping on Saturdays, research on certain customer attitudes shows that they buy much more than they need one day, so this could generate much more traffic than they need on Saturday, and it could even increase traffic. But as I have just said, there was a 4.5 percent increase in trade flows in the previous period, and the next year's budget is projected to increase trade flows by at least 2-3 percent. We have a basis for this, as trade has already increased in the previous months. As a result, if there is more traffic in the shops, there is obviously a need for more loaders, as more goods will have to be placed on the shelves, more will take it off several times, more sellers are needed behind the counters, more tellers are needed behind the counters. You too, honourable Member, believe that if there were to be a positive turnaround in Hungary and there were to be twice as many children, then obviously in three years there would be twice as many kindergarten teachers and teachers in seven years' time. So if there is an increase in trade, it will obviously result in more jobs. I am sure that next December there will be no less trade employees than in December this year, and even more trade employees than is in trade these days. There are further misconceptions that you are obviously trying to enlarge, one of which is that there will be no Sunday shopping opportunity. This is not true, of course, because small shops can be open and markets can be open, so the fair is still an opportunity for everyone on Sunday. Obviously, if you want to go to a bakery, you can go there until noon, you can have newsstands open, you can have flowers open, you can have shops that are in a touristly frequented place, you can have shops at airport or railway stations open, if you stop at a gas station, you can buy in there with or without gas. So in this respect, the possibility of buying is assured. In fact, perhaps you have read it, Congressman, the provision within the bill that is set out in Article 8 of the Act. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 authorises the government to specify the detailed conditions and discretions of other different opening permits for the specific characteristics of a given settlement. So, obviously, for no one, if this bill is passed, it cannot mean that it cannot go to a store or buy on Sunday. But it is indeed a very important social solidarity issue that we are so in solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of trade workers that those, whose Saturdays and Sundays are provided as a day of rest, will choose Saturday for shopping and not Sunday, as it will give other people at least one Sunday's day of rest. We hope that this type of social solidarity will be acknowledged by many, and that they can transform a kind of comfort in their habits, which, in the past, is not a practice, now somewhat developed, but, of course, no one's consumption opportunities will be reduced. It is also important to know whose interests we represent, honourable Member. When commercial workers were asked in one of the largest chain of stores whether they would support them themselves, who are most involved, that their Sunday should be free with all the consequences, 87 percent of them supported this. It was a survey, which could be considered representative of many employee opinions, as many thousands, I recall, filled it out by 8,000, so it is very representative for the entire commercial sector. [[22.40]] They knew all the consequences, all the consequences. They also knew that a good part of the horse-zung that many of the critics say is not true, because the allowance for Sunday work has not been paid in a lot of places since the 2013 decision in Curia, because they say that if one of the shops is constantly open, the payment of the Sunday allowance is not legal, that the employees are employed in other places by temporary agency. Thus, labour law guarantees that were classic to someone 20-25 years ago are no longer entitled to workers in many places because of the temporary agency, the income of student workers or the introduction of such a continuous working order. Their rest can only be achieved by introducing this bill, a free Sunday. Honourable Congressman, It may hurt you very much that this government has, after all, increased the number of employees by 400,000, reduced the number of unemployed by 150,000, but these figures prove that this government understands how to increase employment [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , how to protect workers, how to expand jobs. I think it is important for all of us to have a regulation in Hungary that approaches the German sample, which approaches the Austrian sample, which approaches the Belgian sample. I mean, in those countries, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is a proven method and provides workers with a much higher level of protection. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-271	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I adopt an opinion on the bill, I would like to present the bill itself, because although it has been discussed several times, I feel that the bill is perhaps relatively simple in Hungarian, clearly and highlighting the most important parts, it has not been presented. So what we're talking about, let's get back to the point, because here you've really been a little distracted from the bill itself. The main objective of the bill is to limit opening hours during the week and on Sunday. The bill covers retail businesses, but, as has already been said here, there are exceptions in a number of areas: tobacco shops, pharmacies, airport shops, railway and bus stations, fuel stations shops, markets, trade fairs, shops in the field of military objects, prison institutions. The first important rule is that a retail unit that operates in less than 400 square meters of sales and works in the majority owner or family members of the head of the business, is considered to be part of the scope of the law in terms of opening hours on Sunday, but not in terms of day-to-day opening hours. In Hungarian, food, furniture, electronics articles or anything else, mostly family businesses can also be open on Sundays. Another important point is that shops over 400 square meters may be open, as has already been said, for five Sundays. Obviously, this is invented for the Advent period, as in any other Western European country, or at least most. It is also important that the opening hours during the week are limited from 6:00 to 10:00 a.m., which is what the general validity would say, except for shops selling bakery and dairy products. That's the point of the law. I think it's the best way to sum it up, I've said all the important things, I haven't missed anything, because here, during the debate, the opening hours during the week were almost completely out of the question. Well, what's the Jobbik's position on the bill? It is clear that, due to Christian values, the protection of families, workers and the reduction of the turnover of multinational companies, and some of them, it is possible to support the bill in principle. However, I must add that only if, as has already been said many times here, important amendments will appear in the law or appear in other laws. As the representative of the Socialist Party said here - because at first I was afraid that they would not support this bill in principle - if there are proposals for amendments that do not reduce the wages of workers, for example, they can support it. At least that's what I took out of the thoughts that have been expressed here. It is true that there were many criticisms, some of which are justified, some of which are not justified at all, but that is basically what I saw. Well, there's a similar view of the Jobbik. However, before I get to that point, I would also like to make a small European outlook, because this did not happen, only in the case of two or three countries. Obviously, I do not want to list the 27 EU countries and the other European countries, but let me have a little more perspective. Let's start with Belgium, it's already mentioned here, and it's common ground that they're closed on Sunday. Nine times on Sunday, the shops can be open anyway. In France, which has not been mentioned, there is also very definitely a Sunday closure, but there is an interesting clause, shopping malls can be open on Sunday, hypermarkets cannot be open on Sunday. This interesting regulation is currently in France, and there are tourist areas and two major cities, where shops can also be opened on Sunday. Germany: it is quite well-known there, and it has been said here that it is currently regulated at the provincial level in the Member States, and there are some Sundays allowed to be open, some where there are absolutely no opening hours allowed even on Sundays. The Netherlands, where until 2013, which unfortunately changed in my opinion, was open for 12 Sundays, the other Sundays were closed. United Kingdom: On Sunday shops can be open over 280 square meters in 6 hours, so it is also limited there. Norway: there is almost a complete restriction. Shops of less than 100 square meters can only be open on Sunday, so the larger ones are not at all. Switzerland: there are also virtually total restrictions, except for tourist centres, and obviously there are exceptions. Austria: the opening hours are regulated even on Saturday. You can't keep shops very open there on Saturday afternoons, and on Sundays you can't keep them at all. Similarly, in Italy, it cannot be kept open on Sunday, and we are even at a point where petrol cannot be bought on Sundays, because we can hardly find a gas station where it could be. It's regulated very strictly. Of course, there are counter-poles in Europe, not much, but there are some. In Spain, for example, Sunday opening hours have been liberalised and fully authorised. It should be added that there have been very serious protests by convenience stores, family shopkeepers, so that this does not happen. And interestingly, in Denmark, too, at the moment, this option has been liberalised. So we can find examples of both, but the vast majority of the European, Western European states are regulated by 80 percent; some are very strict and some are less strict. Well, that was the flash-forward, which I think is important for it to be said, so that we can better see what could be done here in Hungary. Then I'll get to the argument. Basically, three things came up on the part of the opponents: an economic downturn, an increase in unemployment and a reduction in workers' wages. There are real concerns, and there are incredibly great demagogic concerns, and this includes reducing the 20,000 workers that will be so much less workers in Hungary. I can put this together with about 23 million Romanians when we were threatened with 23 million Romanians. Nevertheless, yes, there is danger. There is a danger that there will be fewer workers, and then I will come to where and why. Well, that's why we're talking about a decline in the economy. Indeed, if the big shops, the large shopping malls and their entertainment centers are not open on Sunday, the cinemas or fitness centers, because they can continue to be open naturally, and you can go to the shopping mall, you can warm up in the shopping mall in peace, you can simply recreate, as has already been said here, traffic for the other six days. That doesn't mean people are gonna put their money in the pillow. Today we are also discussing two legislative proposals that I am very involved in, we have talked about migrants, I have been a migrant, I have been or have been a social migrant, and I have also been a store manager, I have also been in a shop for sale, so I have some idea of customer habits based on my own experience. It is true that these are no longer today's experiences. So I think it's completely obvious, and there's really no need to question that. There are other things that have been mentioned here that may come from abroad, if they cannot buy on Sunday, then they will shop elsewhere. [[22.50]] Yes, there is a minimum chance that anyone who travels from Austria and, say, to Transylvania or to the South, will only be able to buy on Sundays in Transylvania or in the South - I mean, shopping at large, because, of course, he can buy anything at the gas stations, or at the smaller shops - there may be a few hundred million forints less traffic, so it stands just to this extent. But if someone, say, travels from Transylvania or from the South to Austria or Western Europe, well, he can't buy there on Sunday, so he can't even shop there, so there can't really be a loss like this, at most in his own country, if there's a store open. Well, the issue of unemployment is broadly related to the first question. In principle, there is no need to expect a reduction in work for those working directly in the trade, since if traffic does not actually decrease, it will need to serve that traffic, which will require the same number of people. Please, if someone goes to a store right now, they'll see that the employees are running around, almost if we go to any of them, because at the moment - this is a survey - 15,000 employees are missing from the trade. The reason I miss it is because wages are extremely low, there are 70-80,000 forints in trade, which is why you really think a hundred times about leaving. And of course, when my Socialist fellow Member says that 40,000 people have worked in trade, who do not work there now, please, that is the problem. In trade every six months, in big companies every six months, or not, I'll be on time, I want to be on time, I want to be on time, I want to be 50 percent of the turnover every year. So what I'm wondering is that there are only 40,000 people who worked in the trade and are not currently working there. If you had said 200,000, I wouldn't have been surprised. So you have to see what's behind the numbers, what's real! Well, where will there be less labour? Or where it will be to reduce the number of workers or the number of workers, because it will happen. Two areas: cleaning staff and security guards. Yes, there is likely to be a 15 percent reduction here, but only at these, malls or large shopping malls, because there is indeed, if you do not have to clean or watch the values on Sundays, then this can work, so you have to count on that, and that is indeed right. Of course, that's a few hundred people instead of 20,000, so that's an important difference, but you have to tell me this. The question of wages: perhaps one of the most important things for workers is the wage substitute for Sunday. You were right to criticize the code of work that you have adopted, of course, to add, it is a lousy law, and that should indeed be changed, and this is the first time we have to change it. Because if the Sunday pay gap falls out and falls out - this is a 50 percent wage supplement, but there are shops that provide 100 percent for themselves, by the way - this means a reduction, because on average, a commercial worker works two Sundays a month. In order to avoid such a reduction, all we have to do is increase the afternoon wage allowance by legislation in the Labour Code, which we have submitted to the amendment. So we are not only talking in the air that we should change, and this, and that there should be good for the workers, or that there should be no reduction in their salaries, but we have already tabled this amendment so that it can be negotiated together, so that the government can accept it, and then this danger will simply be eliminated. A few more words have been said about the amendments because we have tabled several amendments: after all, I have told you about the replacements. It must be added, however, that there has been a change in the labour code here, because there is only after 18 o'clock wages, afternoon wages; before that, this allowance had already been paid since 16 o'clock, so there are a lot of negative things in the labour code, but there may not be any need to explain this. Another important amendment, which is more in the interests of consumers - because they should be watched too, that is quite clear - is that the opening hours from 6 to 10 hours now, at the beginning, are certainly not good; it may not be good either. Why isn't it good? Because in Hungary - unlike Western Europe - a lot of people work 2-3 shifts - of course, there is one there, but there are a lot less people there - so a lot of people go to work at 6:00 and finish at 10:00. It would greatly limit their shopping opportunities if they could not enter these larger shops either before or after work. So our other amendment is that the opening hours are set from 5 to 23, so this is not a small problem, by the way - now imagine yourself in the lives of the working people, who are not always able to storm into the store, because they should not have a day, or they should not be able to schedule it in such a way, and that is a problem, so please consider and take this amendment as well. There's one interesting thing about the bill that the penitentiary stores can be open. Somehow, I don't know, it's sort of a liberal flaw here. Why do you have to open the store at the penitentiary on Sunday if you don't have to do it anywhere else? Let's not give the prisoners any extra opportunity. Of course, I know they'll be visiting them then, and the rest, but they'll buy whatever kind of food they want elsewhere, or I don't know what it is, like they're in the penitentiary... This is simply contrary to the spirit of Jobbik, so that we benefit the prisoners by allowing this to be done separately, so we would take it out of the whole thing. And another very important thing. I have a short period of time, but I would also like to say that here we have the workers' rights and the rest, we have actually heard the socialist expression, and the trade unions speak, often in the interests of employers, unfortunately, but when the self-service cash registers appeared in Tesco, no one said that they would take the job - because they would take it away, please, the job! A self-service machine took away a man's work. So I would definitely like to consider the bill that is intended to reduce these, because it can indeed take away the work of tens of thousands in Hungary in a very short period of time. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, that's all I could tell you, but I might be able to comment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-03-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-03-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour! It has caused the LMP a very serious dilemma in how to deal with the bill submitted by KDNP on keeping shops closed on Sunday. One pan of the balance sheet consists of Sunday rest, recharge, protection of the individual and the family, while on the other side the protection of jobs. The KDNP did not make the decision at all easier, it can be said that the circumstances of the submission of the bill are unacceptable. The smaller party presented this proposal without consulting anyone on the text of the proposal. The trade unions were not consulted in substance, they received the text of the norm the day after the proposal was tabled. Obviously, there was no consultation with the employer's side or the trade associations, although in such a far-reaching step it would be a minimum to prevent a thorough social consultation with all the stakeholders involved. KDNP saved itself this, putting virtually everyone in a position, even the unions on Sunday's side of closure. In addition to the lack of consultation with stakeholders, the other big mistake that KDNP has made is that it has not carried out impact assessments, and it has not examined the specific effects of keeping closed on Sunday. We do not know how workers' incomes will change, whether they are expected and what levels of dismissals will be expected. Moreover, what the territorial composition of redundancies will be, how it will affect disadvantaged regions in the country, and how this step will affect tax revenues, the economy. There are different numbers in relation to the expected redundancies. One side speaks of redundancies in the order of 20-30 thousand due to a decrease in traffic, but the other side claims that there will be no redundancies, because there is already about 20 percent shortage in trade, and the only thing that will happen is that the number will be more optimally distributed on the other day. [[23.00]] They claim that traffic will not decrease, but will shift to other days. They also claim that it takes half to three quarters of a year and changes in shopping habits. However, if it is true that large shopping malls and hypermarkets make up 11 percent of their turnover on Sunday and employ between 150 and 200 thousand people, then there is indeed a risk that some of their employees will be dismissed. Ladies and gentlemen, In the absence of impact studies, we are groping in the dark, making assumptions, but we know that the person who will be affected by dismissal or whose income is falling is facing a serious problem. The additional income of 3-4 thousand HUF is not all the difference for employees, and if they fall from Sunday's wages and allowances, they can be sensitively affected. For this reason, namely that KDNP has not submitted a well prepared, impact assessment-based and widely agreed bill, LMP can only support the proposal under conditions, although Sunday rest day is very important. We consider all proposals that reduce the exploitation and vulnerability of workers to be important. Relaxing and maintaining the health of workers and sharing family life are important values for us, and Sunday as a common day of rest really helps us. Restricting the opening hours of shops on Sunday - as we have heard several times today - is present in many European countries - Austria, Germany or France, and Sunday's rest day has been an important effort of employee representatives throughout Europe for a long time. Unfortunately, it has become particularly important in Hungary to ensure the rest of the workers on Sunday due to commercial practices. There's a steady shortage of personnel, overloaded workers, working them to death. Employers maintain a persistently low number of employees, while the employment of the existing workforce within the legal framework is not possible. Therefore, the number of labour infringements is very high, two days of rest for workers are not issued per week, working time rules are broken, overtime and allowances are not paid, workers' wages are very low, 40% are earning minimum wage. This situation is obviously untenable. But it also needs to be seen that the Fidesz-KDNP government has a serious responsibility in this, which is why the proposal is false on the part of the smaller party, and this employee-friendly position does not suit KDNP. In many cases, the code of exploitation which he voted for, i.e. the new labour code, has legitimized what was previously considered to be a violation, as the governing parties said at the time: the law was adapted to practice. It was a serious step, for example, to remove the afternoon shift allowance, to which KDNP had so much to add at the time that, although there is no doubt that the draft could have a negative effect on the remuneration of work, such regulation has its reasons along the lines of common sense. They did not explain exactly what a sober argument was about it. Thanks to the new labour law rules, salaries have decreased, working hours have increased, and more work has to be done for less money. In addition to the abolition of the afternoon shift allowance, the change in working time arrangements has led to an increase in legally unpaid overwork, and for example, working hours are no longer included in the inter-work break. The Labour Code and the Act on related transitional provisions have even broadened the possibility of working on Sundays, and the latter has also made clear the possibility of working on Sundays in trade. At that time, the governing parties were interestingly not concerned about workers, did not try to reduce their vulnerability and improved their pre-subordinate position vis-à-vis their employers. This situation has been made even worse by the fact that the government has practically dismantled labour supervision, the self-employed national occupational safety and labour inspectorates have ceased, the number of labour inspectors and the frequency of inspections have decreased. The number of labour infringements has not changed in recent years, there are still serious abuses with the management of working time registers, compliance with the rules on health and safety at work, the payment of allowances and overtime. It is no coincidence that one of the main demands of the Trade Employees Trade Union is that the competent authorities immediately start monitoring to reduce abuses. Finally, it must also be seen that the government's tax policy can also be held responsible for the wage situation in the commercial sector. With a single-key tax system, small-time earners have been wrong, their net wages have decreased or have not increased in recent years. It has already been mentioned, but I also refer to it, Mr Orbán said in 2011 that as soon as it is possible to live on five days of work a week, I will be one of those who will support the closing ceremony on Sunday. Today, 40 percent of commercial employees earn minimum wage, which is so low in Hungary that they are close to the poverty line right now, 66 thousand forints. Many are forced to work on Sundays because they simply cannot make a living on five days a week. Because of the situation outlined above, LMP considers it very timely and essential that the closing of the shops on Sunday be completed as soon as possible in Hungary, but KDNP can support its bill on this subject only under conditions. Our proposals and conditions have been summarised in three points. 1. The situation of workers needs to be addressed comprehensively, a pay-receiving programme should be started immediately and labour checks should be strengthened. Due to the loss of the Sunday bonus, the decline in income must be compensated by wage development.2. In order to minimise possible redundancies, in order to allow small shops to absorb some of the employees, we recommend that employees be allowed to work in shops within the territorial limits, not just the owners. This could generate recruitment due to the increased turnover of smaller shops. For us, it is very important that Sunday's closure does not involve dismissals. In order to avoid large redundancies, it should be possible to employ employees at least in non-limited shops on Sundays and not only owners can sell. This would shift some of Sunday's traffic to these convenience stores, which would generate jobs.3. Due to the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, we propose that the territorial restriction should not apply to the distribution space, but to the surface area. The 400 square meters of cargo space proposed by KDNP is already too large, so the LMP proposes that the law limit the surface area to 300 square meters. This would indeed benefit small and medium-sized groceries, which could give them an advantage over larger chains with dominant positions. Today, these small shops are forced to open on Sundays, but they run at a loss because the big ones smoke the customers. If this change were to take effect, they would be in a better position against the big chains, their revenue and turnover would increase. Please consider and support our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-03-274	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. Mr Zoltán Lukács, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-275	Thank you very much. I was honoured by the Minister of State of Rétvár to devote eight minutes of his 15-minute contribution to the Hungarian Socialist Party and to me. I consider that to be a serious achievement. I wouldn't get too involved in minimum wage matters, but the minimum wage has indeed increased to a lesser extent, but it was tax-free. [[23.10]] Today, the net amount of the minimum wage is nothing more than a few years ago. You raised the gross amount of the minimum wage, otherwise the net amount remained roughly the same. It also occurred to me that you said that workers work more than is permitted by the Labour Code, and that you have accepted a labor code that doesn't require workers to pay the weekend allowance. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: A mansion decision!]] That's the problem. You don't have to pay them the extra. I wouldn't be so proud of this labor code. On the other hand, if I were a member of the government, I wouldn't be proud to say that we are not able to operate a control system to stop people from working more than the labour code allows. In addition, if we are talking about Germany and Austria and we have to go that way - the Austrian and German models, too - I would add that on average, there are more and less than 80,000 forints of salary for trade workers. I would like to say that in Austria the average salary of a simple shop seller is between 1200 and 1400 euros, which is between 360 and 420 thousand forints. [[Márius Révész: Socialism has passed!]] That's what I'm talking about. The question is not whether to work on Sundays and Saturdays, but the question is whether there is enough wages to avoid working on Saturdays and Sundays. There's a debate between us in this matter. All you're saying is that you have to work five days, so you don't have to work on Sunday, and you just don't want to talk about how people don't have enough money to make that kind of money in five days. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what they need in a month. That's quite simply the problem.
u2014-12-03-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-277	Thank you very much. If I have been honoured by my fellow Member, Luke, who had given me two minutes of his two-minute speech, I thought I would respond to him. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when I spoke about why workers were not paid the allowance, I referred to a decision in the Curia of 2013. There, at the end of a very long-standing procedure, the Curia made such a decision as a legal unit decision. The reason why we need a free Sunday, honourable Member, not in our view, but in accordance with the needs of trade unions, is because employers trick workers with working time schedules that labour inspectors who withdraw cannot control that the day of rest, or not, has been allocated to workers on an annual basis in those working time assignments that the law requires. They said that the only sure way for workers to get at least that one day of rest a week is to make Sunday a free Sunday for workers. I would ask you to try to take this aspect into account in all other proposals. As I said to you, 87 percent of the workers in one of the major trade chains said that they would choose this, precisely because they know that this is the only way for them to really include labour rights guarantees and not to increase their vulnerability, but to reduce their vulnerability in Hungary. It appeared that almost all parties supported the main direction of this proposal at a certain level of abstraction. Everyone was just looking for a loophole, many of them, including the proposal or criticism of the mall association or multinational companies, about why they shouldn't support it. I say to everyone who feels left-wing in this respect, that the MSZP, too, the LMP, dare to be left-wing parties, dare to choose left-wing values on this issue. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If I remember correctly, the yes button will be on the left, so dare you press that button. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-278	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the two-minute speeches, and I am now announcing that we have also reached the end of the speech by the lead speaker. I'm getting a signal to speak to Congressman Bányai. Mr President, I apologise; for a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, because you have heard a KDNP Member speak before you and no one has heard a word from Fidesz. There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-12-03-279	Thank you so much for your favour. I'd like to join the Lukács Zoltán circle, I'd like to comment. With all due respect, the Member is right that minimum wages are low in all sectors. This is not disputed by anyone - or in many sectors. But I ask you, why didn't you do what we did, that in four years, the minimum wage rose by HUF 30,000. In your eight years, he didn't rise that much. So if what you said is true, then it should also be true why you didn't do what you didn't do in eight years, but you could have. You took the baby, you didn't give me any tax breaks. Let's be clear about that. With all due respect, a four-person family ticket to WestEnd Cinema City is 4480 forints and not 12,000 forints. If you want to go to the movies, take this form. [[Zoltán Lukács: I counted the corn, Congressman.]] Because you liked making a mistake, you said the wrong numbers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-03-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since I will only be able to speak to Mr Zoltán Lukács in the next round according to the house rules, we are now finally at the end of the two-minute speeches. We have also come to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to Members to speak in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-281	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As can be seen from the articles published in the press on this subject, we are facing a rather difficult decision. I must say that I have been involved in a surprisingly constructive parliamentary debate. I was amazed, because I think they were very constructive contributions, perhaps except for one. I have to say that when I was hiking in Austria, that's when we first met on a Sunday with the problem of trying to get breakfast somehow. This was difficult because all shops were close to closed. So we had to round a lot of miles to get to a gas station where we could solve this problem. Still, we've talked a lot about whether it's good or not. After all, we have come to the conclusion that it is actually a way of life, a rhythm of life that would be good for Hungary to reach. It'd be nice if we could hold him here sometime, put it to ourselves. I was attracted to this opportunity, but what I'm actually experiencing and feeling is that I didn't have the courage to present this bill right now. So with all due respect to the courageous Members of the KDNP; because I am not sure at all that the adoption of this bill will also be positive in Hungary. However, if we look around, as my fellow Member Sneider said, this is the case in the vast majority of European countries. It is also true, what has also been said, that in the vast majority of EU countries, left-wing and trade unions are also leaders in restricting Sunday work. Unfortunately, in Hungary we had a different left than the previous debate revealed. Once again, what is happening is that we are on the side of the employees and the parties that call themselves the left-wing parties or the Hungarian Socialist Party have clearly voted on the side of the multinational, large shopping centers. Is that okay? I don't think so. But this is not the first surprise we've experienced here. The problem is that people have been used to shopping on Sundays in Hungary for the last 20-25 years. This is already a acquired right, and in fact, when someone raises the problem that it doesn't really work that way in Europe, you have to look in the press at what they have written on this subject. The population is, by the way, extremely divided. The division is multilateral. They are probably opposed to this proposal in Budapest, in large cities, and can accept it in the countryside. Younger ones are more against it. Older ones are more likely to accept it. However, it is also my experience that if we ask the question of whether or not they support the restriction of working on Sundays, then the support for this issue is much greater in this case. I want to live in a country where Sunday is Sunday, and you can't force workers to work. It is also possible to ask in a democracy whether a draft law should be submitted to Parliament, which, at that moment, does not have broad social support. I think he's free. I would like to quote a few examples from the past, as this social support can be changed. We're a few days away from December 5th. You will remember that there was a referendum on citizenship, a proposal came up, and in this referendum ten years ago, an unfortunate decision was made. [[23.20]] Although the votes were a little more, there was insufficient support for the transfer of the citizenship of Hungarian citizens across the border. Ten years have passed, my fellow Members, and in ten years the public mood of Hungarian society has completely changed. There is no longer such serious person, no serious party who asks this question at all in Hungary, because it has become natural. What happened ten years ago? They used public funds, incredibly, and quite amazing demagoguery against the Hungarian citizenship of people across the border. That's what they said about the collapse of health care. [[Zoltán Lukács: He also collapsed.]] The situation of the workers is collapsing, as the workers across the border are taking jobs away. Does anyone take these allegations seriously today? No one, really. However, the same was the case with regard to the non-smoking legislation, when the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party made exactly the same apocalyptic predictions as they did at the time. They said that banting smoking from taverns and catering places would result in the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, a huge economic downturn. I also took a note of an article from the Hungarian Orange. This is what they wrote: There is a serious loss of traffic when smoking is banned. Businesses will close, and there will be a reduction in the number of employees. If the ban is introduced in this form, nearly 350 billion - no mistake, I looked at it several times, it will cause a loss to public finances of 350 billion forints. It would take at least two to three years to realise the market, while many catering venues would be ruined, they wrote at the time. What happened in three years? It's completely different. This many tourists have never come to Budapest from Western Europe. In the VIIth, VIth, Vth district, the various catering places open - the opposite of everything. I believe exactly what Congressman Retvári said, Mr Secretary of State, that these apocalyptic predictions have no basis in the world. There will be no traffic loss, and there will be no significant redundancies. Otherwise, there may be redundancies, only those who leave will appear at other jobs, since Sunday lost working hours will have to be replaced or other sectors of service will be transferred. I am convinced that those numbers of dismissals, the loss of traffic, are significantly valued. There was also an argument in the press - they hit CBA, Real, Coop. By the way, they are completely unfounded, since the name of the stores and the name of the food chains are not related to the law. We are clearly trying to put family businesses in a slightly more favourable position, and they are not subject to the law, so I am very pleased that this has not been found here in the parliamentary debate, by the way. I think that this bill alone will not solve the restriction on Sunday's work. This can only be the first step. In the spring, we think we need to touch the labor code. Congressman Sneider also hinted at it. At the Fidesz Group meeting, we discussed the need to increase the bonus for Sunday work from 50 per cent to higher: 70 per cent or even 100 per cent, as there are occupational branches where there are clearly no restrictions on Sunday work. I believe that part of the proposals that Erzsébet Schmuck has made has also been made at our group meeting. We also agreed at the faction meeting to propose amendments in which we want to reduce 400 square meters, and indeed it was said to include additional storage facilities in the reduction. So if I didn't know it wasn't true, I would think that Erzsébet Schmuck was listening to our group meeting, because he was making exactly the same suggestions that were made there. I think we're going through a constructive debate or a debate. I see the chance that we can adopt proposals for amendments to support this proposal, this bill, by the vast majority of Parliament. I think that we are taking a big step towards a more normal, more livable Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-03-282	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-03-283	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to quote you for the first time from a man who is quite decisive in my life. Please keep an eye on him, because I think we all have to accept that. Every person in the lead must ask you two questions: do I love my people so that I can serve them better? Am I humble and listen to the others, the different opinions, so that I can choose the best way? Without them, no one can be a good leader. The leader is the one who loves his people and is humble. I think that all our fellow Members here should accept this and listen to the views of every fellow Member who is here and listen to people's opinions on the street. 'Cause most of the time, I get the feeling that most of us or most of them aren't around people. They came here to protect workers from exploiters. One of your preferred groups of companies is a very good friend of mine, whom I asked him how he felt about keeping the shops closed on Sunday. He said that if they were paid for it, because this group of companies would not give a bonus, but put it in normal working hours, they would take whatever Sundays they wanted. They would take any Sundays because he has 17 years of shop management experience and has been working in one place for 17 years earning 101,000 forints. You will receive a gross HUF 1500 for your Sunday. If he could get the allowance that the other business chains would get for the employees, he would be willing to take whatever Sundays he wanted, because he wouldn't care much about his 101,000 forints if he'd still get the Sunday allowance and Sunday work. You're not bringing families any closer, you're putting them in a worse position. And, of course, it is an example that families can go to restaurants, cafes and movies, but, you know, fellow Members, this is a luxury category for these people. Because, yes, my colleague from Bányai is right that for HUF 4480 a family can buy the cheapest ticket as a family ticket, and let's say if a family of four goes to a restaurant, it also stops around HUF 5000. For people who make, say, 80 grand on average, it's at least 5 percent of their salary. They can't afford that, you know, fellow Member. I am glad that most of you can take your children to restaurants, cafes and movies; these are the people who need to think about whether, if the child's shoes are leaking, he can buy another one for the child during wintertime. It is also cited as an example that in the largest chain of shops, they did the polling and 87 percent supported it. If you don't get a bonus somewhere, then I think it's natural to support 87 percent of you not working on Sundays. And after their leaders declared in the press that they were in that position, they would have done something else in the polls. Abolishing Sunday work, I think, will be the most meaty issue for the people working there, because they will lose some of their income, whatever you say. I saw a very good quote on Facebook, and, as Congressman Harrach said, these comments, which are taking place there, found it invaluable. The next generation, to whom this law is being passed, are writing here, and it is written here that the voters will now receive standing in Saturday's queue and Sunday's job loss from KDNP in December, before Christmas. This is going to be a really beautiful gift for all of you. As I said, most of the workers we meet say that if they were to receive a bonus, they would be very happy to work on Sunday, because it would mean a lot more revenue for them. Until 2012, the Sunday allowance in the Labour Code was 100%, so I am glad that they thought that in the previous Labour Code this point might have been good, because, as my fellow Member said, they will raise it back to 70 or 100 percent, only to raise a day of rest for these people if they took up the work on Sunday. [[23.30]] I think that the Code of Old Work was much more protective of workers, and that is also stated at the demonstration that we have seen today. The more people we ask, more and more people feel that they're really being exploited right now. Only now there are no strong advocacy organizations that can protect them, because you have made them impossible as much as possible. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] Yeah, are we a social democratic couple? Yeah, I think so. Because we, let's say, represent what people tell us, and we do not represent what you invent in small group sessions at the group meeting, and then present it to us as a separate motion. Really, when I'm reading tens and almost a hundred pages of independent congressmen's motions, I wonder if you guys must have polyhistorians. We're not surprised that tobacco stores can be open on Sunday, are we? Well, I guess friends still have to secure the proceeds. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] Yes, love your neighbor. It's a sentence that I think would be acceptable to all of us. Especially so that, for example, the first speech should not be an insult to our fellow Members sitting across from us. [[Márius Révész: Since you spoke, that's all you've been doing.]] I don't think so. I'm just reacting to what they're telling you. [[Zoltán Lukács: We respect the ladies!]] We should work with Western European laws, I've heard from you. Well, Western European laws, yes, we would need Western European wages, and Western European policy, which, unfortunately, we are quite far from these days. You know, people are gonna go shopping in convenience stores. The big difference is that most people would be happy to go into a store and buy bread and milk, which just ran out of home, only the very harsh difference is that in the supermarket chains open on Sunday, a milk is between HUF 198 and HUF 350-400 in small shops. [[Péter Harrach: Quality difference.]] Congressman Lords! If you go to these stores, you'll see that there are such harsh price differences per business. As a real housewife, I do this, and I see the prices. If, by the way, they were really interested in such things, of course, then go shopping in the market halls and markets, but even looking around Budapest, most of the market halls are closed on Sunday, otherwise if they were around people, then they would know that the markets are not open on Sundays, they don't work. At most, it's only once a month. I think it would be better if you thought about this proposal, because people should really be heard first. They should go to forums where there are not only Fidesz sympathizers and Fidesz voters, but also to convene forums where stakeholders can be heard, because what they tell us can really be learned from. You can really learn from it if you hear from people themselves that the laws that we discuss here at 12:30 p.m. and then, as a matter of urgency, we accidentally vote on their lives. Perhaps we should listen to them, what they think of this matter, and not hold false reconciliations, where we don't listen a bit and listen to their opinions. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-284	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP Group.
u2014-12-03-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Erzsébet Schmuck has already made his point as lead speaker. Let me just say this in chief, I'm going to give you a lot of criticism, and I'm going to end up giving you a conditional yes. I'm just saying so they don't start hooting right from the beginning. [[Defiance.]] I wouldn't venture in any way, and I wouldn't dare, in any way, to criticize the conduction in any way, by chance, please, but in any case, I envied Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári for the first 7-8 minutes when he scorned the MSZP. Because two minutes at the village of loyalty was enough for me to be ordered to talk about the subject. So it is enviable that it was possible. Yeah, I'm back on the subject right now, because I know I can't do that. As a result, there has been a lot of talk here from dual citizenship. But most of the time, this is also for this purpose. There were many, many criticisms about the keynote speech in MSZP about the demagogic and similar criticisms and words and adjectives. However, I think that recalling the trade examples of the countries west of Lajta is the true demagogy. Because when the GDP per capita in Hungary will be like in the vast majority of countries west of Lajta, and when the incomes are not 1200-1300, I have read the newspapers, in Luxembourg the wages of commercial workers can exceed EUR 2000 when they become like this, in this case this will be an easily eligible proposal. Surely now we should consider how the economy should be strengthened to increase incomes, so that people can receive higher wages, so that consumer habits can be transformed so that the primary preference is not how it will be able to buy the cheapest food in the cheapest place on its day off. This requires the development of an economy, which requires wage increases, and certainly with greater intensity than has been the case in the past four years. I can honestly say that I am an outsider, I have not been actively involved in party politics, so I can allow myself to believe neither that I believe the MSZP, has been governed, but I do not believe you, because I have seen how you govern. When such numbers come to 20,000 workers disappear, or even Minister of State Rétvári says that demand will increase, these are total bluffs. And that's my main problem. That no one knows what's gonna happen. No one knows what it's gonna do. There's nothing to support. So I can totally agree with discussing this topic, because this could be a good initiative. This could be an initiative to support. But my main problem is that there are no people in Hungary now who can tell us precisely whether 20,000 workers will be lost or if they will grow by 10,000. That's my problem with all this. This would have required a thorough tour, such as a thorough social consultation and a thorough examination of what this would affect. It is also very, very funny, isn't it, when I hear from a pro-government politician, Minister of State, that there is a shortage of trade and, in many cases, in Western Hungary, there are complaints of a shortage of labour in the trade chains. And I always say, this is the failure of their employment policy and public work, that the community-based society cannot produce the labour demand. This should not happen in a country where public work resources are increasing so that there is a shortage of labour. And yet it is created, because you said in your speech that in trade... [[Intercoms.]] So, overall, that's what raises concerns. I really never thought that I would agree with the MSZP this way, especially while he was steering, and I still don't need my mom to find out, but despite that, I agreed with the MSZP lead speaker on a lot of things, because I felt a lot of his concerns were completely legitimate. In the introduction, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, said that we should not buy his first thoughts on Sunday. What I admired was that they didn't realize or even thought that this Sunday name came from the market day, that Hungarian society considered Sunday to be worthy for a very, very long time, so that they might get what they needed from the trade; that this kind of approach did not arise in a party with conservative values. KDNP said there is no traditional socdem party. I mean, with all due respect, I wouldn't want to offend Mr. Group Leader, but whoever has adopted this Code of Work and steered it to pass, I don't think we should be talking about very social democratic values and employee rights, because that's gonna come back. But honestly, I don't want to hurt your feelings, I just want to do this double situation... And when you were able to say that there were exceptions to the legislation, right, I was smiling at myself, because this is a typical example of fidesz legislation, except for the judge of Ghevi, when I will tell you who will be the exception and how. Obviously, it's something that can cause us to be concerned again. And then I will get to the point that Congressman Márius Révész has also said these Western European examples, with which I fully agree, and I fully agree with what Congressman Márius Révész said, but we would like to live in a country where people do not have to work on Sundays. The only problem is that we don't live in it right now. It's not just your fault, it's not just the current government, it's a number of external factors, the missed 25 years. Most of us cannot afford it at the moment, and the vast majority of Hungarian society cannot afford not to work on Sundays. And that's the problem. I agree with you, too, because it's emotionally easy for me to join this, because it's an easy idea to support. I also envy when we see pensioners on the mountains in Slovakia on the weekend, people going with families, that a different social attitude, a different socialization gives us the opportunity to see those human values, the quality of life that the family is together, is in nature, how it can possibly come out, how it can come out in society. [[23.40]] At the same time, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has said several times during his speeches on the work-based society, and I have heard on several places on the Kossuth radio that he talks about how hard the Hungarian people are, how he loves to work, and he is happy to work. And it has to be noted that many people choose this voluntarily. Partly because those who can afford not to work, too, most work because this is their daily work culture, this is their socialization, that most people do something, but there really are people who can't choose, and even though it would be nice to live in a country where all this is not needed, I don't feel right now that this is the country where we don't need it yet. And here's the thing: I can basically agree, and as an eco-politicist with LMP, I'm saying that basically consumption, over-eating, constant shopping, that society finds its pleasure in going to the store, that's not right. In the long term, a consumption culture that creates people to meet in shops and buy unnecessary things is not sustainable and should not be supported; it is not environmentally friendly. For this reason, it is easy for me to identify with this proposal, and I say that I would support it in my heart. I would only ask one thing: you have been given an incredible mandate by the Hungarian society by having two thirds of their representation here in Parliament, with this two-thirds guarantee that a single dismissal will not take place in the trade chains, so that this cannot happen, that people will not come to the streets. Ensure that trade workers who currently work there do not lose their wages. Because we all know that these amounts are absolutely real, 86 thousand forints, 90 thousand forints, 100 thousand forints, these are real commercial claims. If you find a way not to reduce the wages of one trade worker, so that there will be no dismissal and no unemployment, I will fully support you, and I will, together with Mr.Péter Harrach, announce in the media how good this is. The problem is that I do not see the guarantee yet, and this is the same again, that at the moment I still feel somewhat unprepared for this proposal, which, as I said, I really do think is worthy of consideration. But right now, the problem is that, as in so many other cases, in a government effort, the victims will not be made by government parties, but by civilians, private people who work in shops. The victims and the risks are not in your possession directly, but in people who don't know what's going to happen to them yet. That is why, in addition to my support in principle, I would like to ask that a well-rounded, well-founded proposal be put in place with adequate safeguards, which ensures that no social and social problems are caused in addition. And at the end of my speech, I sincerely wish to you that you can do this in such a way that there really is no dismissal, that no one really earns less, and that Hungarian society accepts it. So I wish that this would work, and if I did, I would have another good idea for KDNP: it might have a positive impact on population policy if it were to be traced back to the fact that there would be no television on Monday. You can do this, too. Thank you very much. [[Márius Révész applauds.]]
u2014-12-03-286	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-12-03-287	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, so the debate is slowly slowly coming to an end, and what I see is that all parties, especially the opposition, have focused on the interests of the workers, and there they are trying to make changes so that the number of workers does not decrease or their wages do not change. This is a good thing, and I am glad that this is the main motive for opposition parties, and we also saw in the ruling party that this is considered important. So I'm seeing a bit of a consensual situation, too. There are many criticisms, but there is basically no huge rejection of the proposal. I'd still be working on the wages of the workers, so allow me, but I've obviously told you what our proposal is. We say we change the afternoon allowance, and I was glad that the increase in the Sunday allowance came up at the faction meeting. Very good, because we really should restore the 100% wage bonus. So I don't know where this bill is going to go, where the events of the coming days are going to take it, but it seems that if you made other changes, then almost entirely the opposition parties could accept it. That's something to think about, especially here, I can see, in terms of surrogates. But at the same time, I must add that LMP was another constructive party that actually put concrete proposals on the table. The idea was to keep an employee in a small business. I consider this to be a consideration - we may have put forward a similar proposal, but I don't remember it all of a sudden - because it is a fact and it is true that then, although I say and say it, and based on experience, there will be no reduction in the number of commercial workers, but, as I said, the number of security guards and cleaners may decrease, but if an employee can be employed, shopping malls, i.e. malls, will be more precisely open on Sunday, because there will also be a lot of small shops and boutiques in these shops, in a large part, perhaps even two thirds of them, a person can be employed if the owner doesn't work, and then even the cleaningmen will have jobs and security guards. So there are many practical thoughts that can be thought through, so that there really is no harm in my interest. But let's get down to the workers' wages. And Western Europe was also mentioned, in view of this, let's say I do not understand the comparison of why, in terms of Sunday work, we cannot, let's say, look towards Western Europe, because this really has nothing to do with it economically, not because, let's say, the shops are closed there on Sunday, because everyone knows it. So what I'm saying is that you have to see the lifestyle here, and that you have to take the good from Western Europe, and I think it's a good thing. So let's not just go through the bad things from Western Europe or the United States of America, but the positive things. But let us compare wages with Western European standards. There have been figures here, obviously on average, it can be said that in the last 10 to 12 years there has been no catch-up with Western European wages, and there has been even a slight decrease on average, which is a huge problem, because we did not start the accession to the European Union - I, say, no, thank God, but others, with great joy - to be in the same place or even worse than when we joined ten years ago. And yes, how much they work for minimum wage at home in retail is the best example of Tesco itself, because Tesco was such a normal company that I should put it this way, for example, against car manufacturers, Mercedes or any other, that it made it clear how much the employees make, and it is clear that today, in Tesco, an average seller or cashier earns HUF 80,000 net, to be more precise, gross, HUF 118 thousand. And that's the average, so they earn less than that, I repeat, that's the average. And a store manager with a serious responsibility makes 190,000 net. Then it is possible to think that, yes, there are huge problems here, and that is why the wages should now be increased even by government administrative means, and I do see that in the current situation, perhaps the fastest, most quickly, is not drastic, because it is not possible to do everything overnight, but it is possible to change this by increasing the wage margins. It has to be noted, 70-80 thousand forints of wage slavery, nothing else, this cannot continue in Hungary, and so many people migrate from Hungary for no reason, because indeed, as has been said here, in Austria, workers are looking for five times as much as the example of Tesco, because he has made his data public, four times as much gross in England at the parent company, in the mother country, a Tesco worker, which, by the way, is five times the net, because there are far lower contributions and tax charges than in Hungary. So what I am asking, as a conclusion, is that in this direction the government, the present Members, will go, too, and say that when there is another group meeting, that this is most likely the case in the benches of the opposition, obviously thousands of others, but this may be the greatest wish not only for opposition parties, but for the entire Hungarian society. Thank you so much for listening. [[Tibor Bana and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2014-12-03-288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor. [[23.50]]
u2014-12-03-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd just like to respond to a few things. Thank you for having more constructive contributions in this round. I feel the struggle of my fellow opposition Members that they would like to support this proposal. Well, I suggest you step over the virtual barriers between us and try to do that. What is the guarantee - a number of people have suggested - that this does not mean mass redundancies next year, and why the KDNP has just taken this proposal forward again, since we have said this six years ago and four years ago, and we have submitted it to Parliament once. If we look at the planning for next year, as I have already said, as more money will be left over than people, we are therefore looking for an increase in retail traffic. When we planned a budget the day before or before last year, we couldn't say it like this. But now we have a year where we have seen this beautiful crawling back to the pre-crisis level, and obviously the next year, as the total national product continues to grow, there is still a reduced tax system in Hungary, which is as favourable as in a few countries, especially with families, so people's income continues to increase. On the other hand, the bank debt relief package is in place, which means not only a radical reduction in their outstanding debts for foreign exchange creditors, but also an increase in the cash remaining with them, as they will pay 25-30 percent less for repayments, which also increases the money in the hands of people, which they can spend in trade. To listen to the views of stakeholders: honourable Member, honourable Members, 87 percent of those involved said that this is the solution that the KDNP has put forward as a proposal. We have listened to them, and we have brought their proposal to you before Parliament. As for the interrogation of Congressman Luke, we respect the ladies: you know very well that 75-80 percent of those who work on Sundays are women. So at a much greater disadvantage, the ladies are in the current state, and this proposal would help them in the highest proportion, three to four times the size of men. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-03-290	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-03-291	Thank you very much. I would just like to say one thing to my fellow Member, Mr Benedek. I felt the struggle, too. The truth is, there were many of us in the Fidesz fraction, so that we would have supported it in our hearts, but we also saw the problems and difficulties. However, I would like to make one point here: if you are committed to supporting the law, whether we can give any guarantee that no person will be dismissed from the commercial sector, you can also say that you are not - politely speaking - because it is quite obvious that such a legal guarantee cannot, of course, be given. At the same time, I think that those numbers - the number of 20,000 and the number of 10,000 - are highly overestimated. You have repeatedly referred to the fact that it is not long ago in politics, but if it were a long time ago, you would see that any bill, any decision, shows such an amazing scattering that if the National Bank reduces the base rate from 7 percent to 6.5 percent, then the Swiss franc will be 250, 350, 450 HUF. Everyone writes about another decision regarding smoking that tens of thousands of jobs will be lost. You can say that - time will decide. So everyone's saying things. On one side, negative effects are very significantly overestimated in all such cases. I still have a very strong belief that with the reasons Mr Rétvári said that the Hungarian economy is growing, there will be an increase in purchasing power, and there will be no significant dismissal in trade. I think that if we look at how many people will be working in the trade sector in one or two years' time, this figure will most probably be higher than the current number. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-292	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak within the context of this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Péter Harrach, Group Leader, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-12-03-293	I would like to make a few comments, but I will try to finish it today if my fellow Members agree with me. There was a sentence saying that we shouldn't shop, they put it in our mouths. We do not say not to shop on Sunday - do not work on Sunday! The possibility of buying will be given, and I would approach from the employment side, not from the shopping culture side. To avoid dismissal: I believe that there will be no dismissal, but I also think that there are a lot of dismissals - I do not think, I see - and that is not a lot of concern. I will go ahead with what I have to say to Congressman Luke, because I see that he has entered the field of departure, in case he hears it before it is done. [[Zoltán Lukács: I'll wait for the answer.]] You're doing this wisely. Thank you very much for agreeing with the original KDNP proposal, which said that we should not limit only the work of trade workers on Sundays. We filed this four years ago. This intention has not been lost because it really has to apply to all workers. And speaking of Congressman, you referred to the Trade Employees Union and said what arguments you have. I feel a little bit of a credibility problem here, because it was this union that the leader of which came out with me four years ago to a joint press conference in front of one of the big shopping malls, and he was the one who also stood up with me three weeks ago and argued very hard for a free Sunday. He said things like no traffic cuts and no layoffs. He also said that the big ones would benefit from Sunday's opening hours. He also said that there is a shortage of workers, which is why there will be no dismissal. The allowance is barely paid, and so on. What opinion is true of this union that you quoted because you really turned your cloak, or what you said to me in favour of my arguments? So this credibility problem exists. I don't want to keep you any longer, just one more comment. The minimum wage tax exemption for families still exists today, as the tax relief makes the gross net virtually. And since we're talking about families here, I think that's the case in this case. Let me talk about some LMP proposals or excuses. There's been a lot of reconciliation. Not only was it not, I also consulted VOSZ, trade unions, various employers' organisations, but there were measurements and impact studies, not only that 87 percent support, but also the government's measurement, the trade unions' own surveys, even the Association of Large Families did this. I find it a little odd to give shop employees the opportunity. They're accusing us of funding the CBA. Well, that would open the way, because 95 percent of CBA's business is now closed, and they're proud to do so, almost voluntarily, but if we give them this opportunity, then the CBA stores will be open. So it's not us. If you'll allow me, a few more thoughts - but just one more. The convenience stores, so it's the family business. We're not increasing their chances, we're reducing their odds, because this is about multinational companies sucking the air out of them. We always refer to the fact that if we go down Rákóczi Road, Thököly Road, in places where there were a lot of small shops, we find a lot of them closed. Maybe we'll give family businesses a chance. I think I'm gonna have to stop here because it's tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-03-294	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'm reporting that we're 46 seconds away today. [[0.00]] Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. [[Márius Révész: Tomorrow or today?]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Today, so Thursday, we have until 4:00. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Today, after the agenda, Mr Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group, spoke with the title "Europe of the Nations." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-03-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, These days, we can remember several round anniversaries. One has already been mentioned here today, and it can now be said, since it is past midnight that yesterday, on 5 December 2004, the referendum on shameful dual citizenship took place. At the time, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary stood very strongly in favour of this case, and then, when we entered the Parliament in 2010, the first bill we submitted urged our brothers to receive citizenship. It is true that this proposal was not supported by the pro-government majority, making it a matter of pride, but then we were able to vote here together in Parliament. Another anniversary, which is also due this week, is the fifth anniversary of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, and I am talking about the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, which was a major point in the creation of the European United States 2007. It was signed on 13 December 2007 and then, a few days later, on 17 December 2007, the Hungarian Parliament ratified this proposal for the first time among the parliaments of the Member States, within the framework of the general assembly of large coalitions on EU issues, and there were very few Members who did not contribute to the unread adoption and confirmation of this. We have been members of the European Union for ten years, and we can say that in the 2003 referendum, Hungarians did not say yes to this EU. This is also recognised from the government's side, and Viktor Orbán himself made such a statement. At the same time, however, we can see that they speak in order on EU issues, because on the domestic stage the government is very fond of the role of a warrior, but when it comes to that, just as the MSZP-SZDSZ governments at the time give their consent to the major changes. A good example of this was the question of the fiscal pact, on which the Prime Minister said here that support for the British position should be considered, but later he agreed to this proposal. Jobbik alone is the political force that stands firm and consistently against centralising efforts from the time it was founded. Some important issues should be addressed here in connection with the anniversary. One is the issue of Hungarian agricultural land, in which Jobbik has made a number of proposals over the past few years. We continue to believe that the Treaty of Accession should be amended in order to protect our national treasure. Unfortunately, the land law adopted does not allow this to happen at all. Another area for which the European Union is also completely insensitive is the issue of indigenous minorities. The day before yesterday, at the COSAC meeting in Rome on Tuesday at the European level meeting of the Committees on European Affairs, I also raised this issue with regard to Transcarpathia. I said that sanctions against Russia are inadequate and will not produce results, that the Community will one-sidedly address the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, and that we need to focus on the interests of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia as Hungarian parliamentary representatives in this respect. It is also worth looking at the polling data, as they show that the majority of Hungarians believe that our membership is less favourable than beneficial, and that voters reject further deepening in an overwhelming two-thirds majority. The rejection of the European Union is constantly increasing, and this was also seen in the results of this year's European Parliament elections. Here, in terms of EU funds, they always refer to the benefits that we are benefiting from, but this is not the case at all, because if we look back on this decade, we can see that prestige investments have been made to a large extent against these investments, which create jobs and boost the economy. In the period ahead, too, there is a major success propaganda on the government side of the 2014-2020 cycle, but it is important to see that EUR 20.6 billion will be available as a cohesion resource instead of EUR 25.7 billion, so we can talk about a 20-percent reduction in this case and I have not even mentioned the indirect effects. We therefore support the economic cooperation of European countries, but we say no to political union, super-state set-up. For Europe, yes, Jobbik's position, but one-sided Euro-Atlantic dependence [[The president's ringing the bell.]] we reject the creation of European united states, but only a Europe of nations based on the self-determination of nation states can be an acceptable and forward-looking concept for Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-03-296	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Benedek also spoke after the agenda with the title "Reading a private letter." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-03-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The temptation was great, because today is 114 years old for the football department of the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club, and I would have liked to have remembered this, but after the next time there is December 6th, Santa's Day, I would like to read a letter to Santa Claus. Please excuse my subjective approach to this question. Dear Santa. Some things aren't like I imagined here in Parliament, and I thought I'd ask you to help me make things better around here with little gifts. For Erzsébet Schmuck, I ask you to bring peace to the world so that he doesn't have to travel so much and be home with us more. Bring him your own climate bill, which Parliament will adopt, because it would love to make the country and the economy more environmentally conscious, and please give every foreign exchange loaner 180 HUF, because it would make him happy. Please bring a magic wand to my fellow Schiffer András faction so that he can punish those who put me in his pocket, because he's very angry about it, and he really wants there to be no corruption in the country, and if you want, you can bring him to be the champion of Iron. Please bring Wind Bernadett a special pair of glasses so he can uncover anything where children, girls, women are hurt so he can punish anyone who does that. And, please, bring him a new NAV, which is not driven by people who are unfit and unworthy of it, but one that helps and does not sabotage small and medium-sized enterprises. Please, István Ikotity bring a new education policy to my friend, because he would very much like for some reason not to be nerd-headed children vaccinated against thinking in the future, but rather thinking Hungarian democrats, of whom skilled workers also know Anyegin's letter to Tatiana and can speak languages, but not to leave the country. Please, Santa, to bring a lot of love into the hearts of my better fellow Members, so that they can love every naked-footed Gypsy child and also welcome guests from Israel. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] And please bring them a lot of well-paying jobs in Somogyország, a lot of water and a good fishing place in the Szigetköz, good beaches and a lot of guests to Lake Balaton, and get all the hospitals set up very much, because I felt that it would make them happy. And please, if they ask for nuclear reactors or hydroelectric power plants on their own, don't do that in any way. In order for my fellow MSZP members to be happy, please bring breakfast, brunch, lunch, lunch and dinner, lots of toys, clothes and pleasure to all the poor children, and ask Jesus to bring them many, many gifts, because that would make the MSZPs very happy. I think it's nice of them to want that, and so many of them deserve some sugar bacon, but don't bring it to people who have butter behind their ears from the past. And please, bring each one of them your own little European Union flag, because they love it very much. Take what you want to my fellow Members sitting among the independents, because I don't know what they want, and I haven't really learned that since I've been here. Just like everyone else in this country, I ask you to give good health, happiness and peace to my pro-government fellow Members and their families. Bring them the capacity to humble themselves against many, many of Hungary's inhabitants, which I noticed they didn't get from you last year, so they couldn't apply it. Bring them the ability to be generous, to have the ability to listen to us, and at least sometimes they can support an amendment, a series of requests for consideration. They're not very generous about this generous thing. Please bring them a lot. Be careful, a lot of them don't need a special gift anymore, because some of them have their own putt, which they've already filled with stuff in their midst. Get those guys some gadgets, please. Please take some more teasing for György Matolcsy, because he skis a lot of public money unnecessarily, and that's not nice. I don't mean to be a tell, but Bence Rétvári and András Tállai lied a lot in Parliament, maybe they could use a vigil. Oh, and please consider where you're taking the presents, because some people don't have to take anything anymore, because they got their plane ticket in advance, Rolex, or a nice big house you sent them. I'm sure they're grateful for that. Dear Santa. Sallai R. Benedek, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the May Other Politics, welcomes you from Hungary in 2014. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-12-03-298	Thank you, Congressman. However, at this early hour of the morning, honourable Parliament, allow me to ask you a question, a comment as chairman of the meeting. Congressman, you didn't ask for anything. Maybe next time you'll tell me that. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next three-day session of the autumn session is expected to take place on 8 December. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 0.10 a.m.]]
